Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction It is with pleasure that I present my first Corporate governance report.
I was delighted to take over the role as Non-executive Chairman on 20 March 2015 having joined the Board as Chairman designate on 9 February 2015.
During the year, the Board considered the overall framework of governance which included the composition and work of the Board and its committees.
We have discussed, managed and identified significant risks to the business with considerable input from the Executive Management Board EMB.
We have also reviewed how the Board and its committees engage with shareholders, how we respond promptly to any matters raised by shareholders and explain how we are going to deliver our strategy to shareholders.
The Board and the Group as a whole believe in strong governance, a high standard of ethics and our corporate responsibility.
It is my role to ensure we regularly review and continue to develop our corporate governance arrangements in line with the best practice guidelines provided by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board actively focuses on pursuing the success of the Group, developing its strategy and monitoring its implementation whilst at the same time maintaining a strong relationship with all stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, partners and our employees.
At our Board meetings we have open and frank discussions on the structure of our meetings to ascertain how we utilize the time of the Board to improve the business operationally and to deliver the strategy of the Group.
In 2014 we used Independent Audit Limited to perform a Board effectiveness evaluation and there were some positive actions from this process to engage the Board to run more smoothly going forward.
As I joined the Board in March 2015 I am keen to develop a robust board effectiveness evaluation over the next 12 months.
This report explains how the Board and its Committees function to provide appropriate guidance and support to the business while behaving within the letter and spirit of good corporate governance principles.
The membership of the Committees have continued to change in the past year and we have embraced the new provisions and guidelines from the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
The Board has worked closely with the EMB to identify the principle risks to the business and how we can mitigate these risks going forward to best align with the Groups strategy.
This is outlined in more detail in our Strategic Report on pages 43 to 44.
The Board has further improved its approach to risk and during the year some risks have been expanded, some new risks added and we have deleted one risk.
We have concentrated largely on the risks that could impact our business by greater than 10 million or may cause significant reputational damage.
On page 64 of this Report we give detail of compliance with the Code, the structure and composition of the Board and Committees, the responsibilities of the Board as a group and for individual roles, the Board meeting structure and the date of our AGM.
Changes to the Board and succession planning As part of the continuing evolution of the Board there have been a number of changes to the Board.
In February 2015 the long standing Chairman Geoff Shingles stepped down and I was appointed as non-executive Chairman.
With recommendation from the Nomination Committee, the Board appointed a third party to assist in my recruitment and they conducted an extensive search, led by the Senior Independent Director.
In August 2014 we appointed Kate Rock as nonexecutive director and at the AGM in September 2014 David Hurst-Brown retired from the Board.
On behalf of the Board I would like to express our deep appreciation to both Geoff Shingles and David Hurst-Brown for their contributions during their tenure.
We offer our sincere thanks and wish them well for the future.
The Board continues to reflect a balance between technology sector, commercial, public relations, financial and general business skills, and is supported by a highly experienced international team leading the business in both executive and non-executive roles.
62 Directors report | Reports from the various Board Committees and details of their composition are covered in more detail in their respective section of this report.
More details of the appointments to the Board are given in the Nomination Committee report on pages 73 to 74.
During 2014 15, the Board played an important role in managing the Group through a time of consolidation after a number of years of acquiring companies, in particular, MIPS and monitoring the performance of the Group in the challenging and competitive economic environment.
The Board also provided clear strategic direction and ensured that the Groups standards of conduct met its expectations.
The skills and specific expertise of the current members of the Board are set out in the Biographies section on pages 53 to 55.
Diversity The Board recognizes there is a gender imbalance among the Groups employees, as there are with many organizations in the science, engineering and technology sectors.
The Board believes in the benefits of greater gender diversity at board level and is actively supportive of measures to achieve this without putting quotas in place.
We suggested in last years corporate governance report that we were about to appoint a female to the Board and we were delighted to welcome Kate Rock to the Board.
The Board recognizes that diversity is important to the role for a successful Board and focuses on attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or ethnicity and considers all appointments on merit.
The Board noted the publication of Lord Davies Review into Women on Boards in February 2011 and the proposals published by the European Commission in November 2012 the latter includes an objective that 40% of non-executive directors should be women by 2020.
We believe that diversity should be considered broadly and should not just focus on gender.
We will continue to select candidates based on their relevant skills, experience and knowledge and in keeping with the business needs.
The current structure of the Board comprises of two executive directors, a non-executive Chairman, and five non-executive directors.
At the end of the year the diversity composition was represented by 87.5% male and 12.5% female.
The Groups strategy The Group is still consolidating its position after going through enormous change both organically and by acquisition in recent years as part of the Groups strategy.
In December 2014 and April 2015 the Board and EMB along with other key employees attended offsite strategy meetings.
The next strategy meeting is set for December 2015 and will continue to develop the longterm strategy of the business.
More detail is given in our Strategic report on pages 7 to 51.
Ethics All executives and employees are required to comply with the Groups Code of Conduct.
The Companys Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy is communicated to all employees to ensure all employees worldwide are aware of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and carry out their duties with honesty and integrity.
I believe that the Group benefits from a strong Board and we will continue to look for opportunities to further strengthen and diversify.
It is early days for me at the Company and I am continuing to meet institutional shareholders and more of our key employees, we need to maintain our focus on risk management and continue to review and develop our strategy.
We will continue to review our governance framework annually to ensure shareholders are clear of how we will deliver our strategic objectives.
Bert Nordberg Chairman 29 June 2015 Directors report 63 | Corporate governance compliance Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Group has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, both the main principles and the supporting principles, throughout the year and to the date of this report.
We explain in the reports below how we applied the provisions and principles of the Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
Further explanation on how the main principles have been applied is set out below and in the Audit Committee report and the Directors Remuneration Committee report.
The role of the Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and ensuring its long-term success.
It has ultimate responsibility for the activities of the Group including its overall direction, strategy, risk management, governance and performance.
In order to meet that responsibility it ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place, and that it is supported in its activities by its various Committees, EMB and senior managers.
The authority delegated by the Board to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to carry out certain tasks, are defined in each Committees Terms of Reference.
Further information on the responsibilities of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are set out in their respective reports on pages 69 to 97.
Matters specifically reserved for the Board to make decisions on include, but are not limited to, the following: Group long-term strategy: Group major business decisions: Group-wide business and financial review including annual budget: major capital expenditure, acquisitions, disposals and investments: review of the internal financial control and risk management systems: consider recommendations of the sub-committees of the Board: the approval of interim and annual financial statements: and treasury management.
The Board will delegate other operational matters to the EMB for its review with other senior managers of the business to enable them to make appropriate divisional decisions.
The composition of the Board The Board currently consists of eight members: the non-executive Chairman, the CEO, the CFO and five non-executive directors.
Division of responsibilities The Group has a traditional Board structure with a unitary Board comprising the non-executive Chairman, executive and nonexecutive directors.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees are made up of independent non-executive directors and they, together with the Nomination Committee, report to the Board.
The EMB reports to the CEO and the divisions and functions report to the EMB.
In accordance with the Code there is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, which have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The written roles are available to view on the Groups website.
64 Directors report | Role of Chairman Bert Nordberg became the non-executive Chairman in March 2015.
He is undertaking a review of the business and this involves meeting senior employees at the Company along with institutional shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He sets the agenda for the Board and ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, giving sufficient time to review all agenda items thoroughly including strategic issues.
He promotes a culture of openness, debate and facilitates constructive relations between executive and nonexecutive directors.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
In order for him to effectively discharge his duties he works closely with the Company Secretary.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans other professional commitments are listed on page 53 and the Board are satisfied that they do not interfere with the performance of his duties for the Group.
Role of Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer, Sir Hossein Yassaie, is responsible for proposing, developing and implementing the Groups strategy and commercial targets as agreed by the Board.
He is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
He carries out his duties in consultation with the Chairman, the Board and EMB which in turn are responsible for the commercial and operational activities of the Group.
He holds weekly meetings with the CFO and EMB to ensure the Group is actively managing the overall strategy of the business.
He regularly holds meetings with the Groups customers, potential customers and partners for executive discussions on current and future business.
He is also responsible, with the EMB, for implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
Role of the Senior Independent Director SID David Anderson acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
He is also the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He led the search for a replacement for the Chairman.
Further detail on this appointment is given in the Nomination Committee Report on page 73.
He also makes himself available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to find a resolution, or where such contact is inappropriate.
During the year he met with some of the larger institutional shareholders of the business.
Role of the Company Secretary The Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman ensures good flow of information within the Board and its Committees and to senior management.
He is also responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and is on hand to offer advice and services should any director require it.
The Company Secretary attends all Board and Committee meetings.
The Board as a whole decides on the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
Role of non-executive directors The non-executive directors have a wealth of experience, business knowledge and are appointed to constructively challenge senior management and provide input to meet agreed goals, objectives and to ensure the integrity of financial information.
The role is described in more detail within the Financial Reporting Council Code.
During the year the Board considered the independence of each on the non-executive directors against the criteria specified in the Code and took particular care to assess the independence of Ian Pearson.
Ian was appointed as non-executive director of the Company in 1998, and has therefore been connected with the Group for more than 9 years.
The Board acknowledged that he does not meet the independence criteria specified by the Code but agreed that he continues to contribute significantly through his individual skills and considerable knowledge of both the Group and the industry.
The Board believes that he provides Directors report 65 | continuity and overall balance whilst continuing to demonstrate a strong independence of management in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as director.
Following a performance review the rest of the Board believes that he remains independent in character and judgement and that he will continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment.
Accordingly, the Board considers that Ian Pearson is an independent non-executive director.
The Board agrees that the remaining non-executives meet the independence criteria specified in the Code.
Furthermore, no institutional investor has raised concerns over their independence.
Induction and professional development The existing induction process has been formalized, following a recommendation from the Board effectiveness evaluation in 2014.
The induction procedure for all new appointments to the Board is designed to enhance the directors knowledge of the industry in general and their understanding of the Groups operations and performance, and importantly the Group culture.
The induction programme consists of the following: one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, CEO and CFO and meetings with the remaining Board members: meetings with EMB and senior management to discuss Group operations: meeting with shareholders, where appropriate: attendance of strategy meetings: and visiting regional and international offices.
In accordance with the Code the Chairman regularly reviews and discusses the development needs with each director.
Each director is fully aware that they should take responsibility for their own individual development needs and take the necessary steps to ensure they are wholly informed of regulatory and business developments.
Activities of the Board The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year which are supplemented by unscheduled meetings which are held when urgent business decisions are required, such as relating to acquisition activity.
The Board papers are circulated electronically in advance of each meeting.
At each meeting certain regular reports are presented which are: CEO delivers a full business update with focus on the semiconductor market, a business summary for each division, the Groups relationships with current and potential partners, licensing updates, units shipped, potential acquisitions and key business issues and actions: CFO gives the year to date financial results, latest financial projections, investor relations activity and market forecasts: The Board reviews the status of the Groups long-term strategy, and Company Secretary provides updates covering governance, share price data, share schemes management, risk management reporting and shareholder analysis.
In addition the Board meets periodically with senior management from the Groups Technology and Pure divisions in order to review the strategic direction of the business.
The main objectives of the strategy session are to assess and decide upon the key technologies, products and markets for the business to develop by assessing the potential returns against the risks.
The result is a common vision of the future aspirations of the business and an understanding of the function and goals that each division has to achieve the strategy.
Divisional business plans are built around executing the strategic plan.
66 Directors report | The CEO and CFO attend weekly and monthly meetings of the EMB, where each member provides an up to date operational report in which progress against plan is reviewed to ensure that this is in line with the Groups strategic and business targets.
They will then provide feedback to the Board at the next scheduled meeting on any areas of significant interest.
Activities during the year During the year in addition to the above the Board was actively involved in monitoring: progress as the business transitions from a period of heavy investment in strategic product lines to a position where the core products are able to generate income: the on-going redevelopment of our headquarters in Kings Langley and other regional offices: a review of efficiency and operations in the Group resulting in a reduction of base cost: and investments in partners.
Appointment to the Board There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
More detail is given In the Nomination Committee Report on pages 73 to 74.
Commitment During the year, the directors committed sufficient time to the Group to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Board evaluation In early 2014 the Board undertook its first external Board evaluation on its effectiveness carried out by Independent Audit Ltd and have taken action to implement a number of considerations including: the size, composition and mix of the Board: succession planning both within the executive team and the non-executive directors: the number, scheduling, duration and location of Board meetings: increased visibility of progress against the strategic objectives: more active involvement with members of the EMB who will present regularly to the Board to ensure the Board are fully aware of the status of the operational divisions: and a continuing programme of development sessions teach-ins for the non-executive directors in order to provide them with a more detailed appreciation of possible strategic and technological developments.
There was no formal Board evaluation carried out in 2014 15, although the Board continued to implement the recommendations from the independent review in 2014.
The new Chairman is undertaking a review of the board and its effectiveness and will lead the Board evaluation process in 2015 16.
The Board believes individual Board members are satisfied that the Board works well and operates effectively in an environment where there is constructive challenge from the non-executive directors.
They are also satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and that Board Committees operate properly and efficiently.
Directors report 67 | Conflicts of interest All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The Group has put in place procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest which the directors may have and for the authorization of such conflict matters by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorize a conflict, or potential conflict, the directors have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The authorization of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorization, may be reviewed at any time and are reviewed formally by the Group on an annual basis.
There have been no conflicts of interest raised in the year.
Board and Committee meeting attendance Tenure Board Audit Remuneration Nomination years Committee Committee Committee 1 Bert Nordberg 1 1 1 n a 1 1 n a Hossein Yassaie 20 8 8 n a 2 4 4 Richard Smith 4 8 8 5 2 2 Andrew Heath 3 7 8 5 5 5 5 4 4 Gilles Delfassy 3 7 8 5 5 5 5 4 4 David Anderson 4 8 8 5 5 5 5 4 4 2 Kate Rock 1 5 6 n a 1 1 2 2 Ian Pearson 17 8 8 n a n a n a Denotes attendance by a director, who is not a member of the Committee, at a Committee meeting, as requested by the Chairman of the Committee.
1 Bert Nordberg was appointed in March 2015 and was eligible to attend one board meeting and one remuneration committee meeting.
2 Kate Rock was appointed in August 2014 and was eligible to attend six board meetings, one remuneration committee meeting and two nomination committee meetings.
