54 IMI plc Audit Committee Report Ross McInnes Chairman of the Audit Committee control, inventory management and segregation of duties.
Dear Shareholder The commitment and significant progress in new IT investment and infrastructure will further strengthen our control environment I am pleased to present my second report as Chairman of the in the years ahead.
The Committee has received reports on the six-monthly Internal Control Declarations which are submitted by each business Composition of the Audit Committee unit and cover internal controls in financial affairs, IT, human I chair the Audit Committee.
I was a career finance director resources and other key areas.
The process is managed until my retirement from executive office with Safran in 2015 by Group Assurance which routinely audits and follows up and I have significant recent and relevant financial experience.
declarations to review the setting and completion of appropriate I also chair the audit committees at Faurecia SA and Eutelsat improvement actions.
Birgit Nrgaard, Carl-Peter Forster and I were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
Significant accounting issues reflected in the 2015 financial Isobel Sharp joined on 1 September 2015, adding further statements include accounting for acquisitions, impairment significant accounting, audit and governance experience to of goodwill and intangible assets arising from acquisitions, the Committee.
All of the Committee members are regarded revenue recognition, pensions accounting and inventory by the Board as independent non-executive directors.
The matters of judgement involved in these issues are described in more detail below.
The Committee generally asks the following to join its meetings: the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the The Committee reviewed and approved for submission to the Group Financial Controller, the Director of Risk and Compliance, Board the statements on going concern and viability, which the Group Assurance Director and the external auditor.
appear in the Directors Report on page 136.
The Committee holds at least part of several meetings each year The Committee remit calls upon it to advise the Board in relation alone with the external auditor and with the Director of Risk and to the fair, balanced and understandable requirements in respect Compliance and the Group Assurance Director.
The Committee of the Annual Report and the Committee is pleased to see has the powers to call on any employees to come before it.
further progress in the clarity and quality of reporting in 2015.
The Secretary to the Committee is also the Group Legal Director.
Oversight of financial reporting Main areas of activity in 2015 The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the The Audit Committee met four times in 2015.
Annual Report and announcements with financial content that are prepared by executive management.
The Committee Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the received reports on the annual and interim financial statements Committee and during the year management made further from the external auditor who attended its meetings.
The significant progress in strengthening controls and addressing auditors report including a summary of key areas of audit action points raised by the external auditor and internal focus is set out on pages 138 to 144. assurance processes.
Based on its review of selected key controls EY agreed with managements assessment that the The Committees work also included reviewing the financial level of control effectiveness across the Group remains high statements, key finance policies including accounting, tax, at 96% and has improved compared to 2014.
It is pleasing to and treasury, significant issues of judgement and, as described report that the areas where controls are weakest have been below under the section headed Internal audit, looking a key management focus in the year and good progress has at the effectiveness of internal financial controls and been made across all operations in the areas of balance sheet assurance processes.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Significant judgements related to the External audit independence and performance review financial statements The Committee approved the proposed external audit approach and its scope based on the size and level of risk Accounting for acquisitions of the entities concerned.
The Committee also approved the During the year we acquired Bopp & Reuther.
The valuation internal audit programme.
The Committee takes a risk based of goodwill and intangible assets and fair values of other approach to audit and other assurance activity.
assets were reviewed and agreed by the Committee.
The result of that valuation is detailed in section 3.4 on page 100.
The Committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence Impairment of goodwill and intangibles arising the Committee had regard to best practice guidance for from acquisitions audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that We considered the level of goodwill held on the Groups its ethics and independence policies complied with the balance sheet in respect of a number of past acquisitions requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and whether, given the future prospects of these businesses, in England and Wales.
the value of goodwill in each case remains appropriate.
The policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is The Committee reviewed the assumptions and calculations established and monitored by the Committee and requires used by management in the assessment of any impairment approval by the Chairman of the Committee for any nonof goodwill and intangibles assets and agreed that no audit engagement where fees exceed 150,000.
The policy impairment charges were required.
Section 3.2 to the does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could financial statements on page 97 provides details regarding compromise auditor independence, such as, functioning the Groups intangible assets and goodwill.
in the role of management or auditing its own work.
Nonaudit fees paid to the auditor were 0.2m 2014: 0.3m, Revenue recognition which represents 7% of the audit fee and demonstrated the The Committee discussed the timing of revenue recognition tight control which is maintained in this area.
We are of the on some of the Groups larger contracts running over view that the level and nature of non-audit work does not several years.
In addition, this is an area of audit focus and compromise the independence of the external auditor.
accordingly EY reported on this matter to the Committee.
Having reviewed managements process and EYs report, Benchmarking of the audit fee was conducted to ensure the Committee concluded that revenues were appropriately that it is appropriate and competitive and the Committee reflected in the financial statements.
Section 5 note C approved the proposed audit fees payable to EY.
to the financial statements on page 128 provides We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit further information.
The Committee adopted a formal framework by Pensions accounting way of a questionnaire to review the effectiveness of the An actuarial valuation in accordance with IAS19 has been external auditor.
The framework is completed annually by each member of the Committee and by the Finance performed on the Groups defined benefit obligations.
Feedback was also received from the Chief Committee reviewed the appropriateness of this valuation, including the actuarial assumptions used and the treatment Executive, the Group Financial Controller, Group and of one-off special pension events.
The Committee also Divisional Management.
The feedback from this process reviewed reporting from the external auditor.
Further was considered by the Committee and was provided to the external auditor.
As a result of this exercise the Committee details can be found in section 4.5 on page 115. believes the performance has been satisfactory and the Inventory valuation external auditor is considered to be effective.
The Committee reviewed the judgements applied to To further enhance the audit process certain improvement standard costing valuations and provisions against excess actions were identified and plans have been put in place and obsolete inventory and concurred with managements to address these, including better visibility and integration assessment.
This was another focus area for EY, in respect of specialists and more timely completion of the statutory of which it reported to the Committee that inventory accounts of audited subsidiaries.
valuation across the Group is considered appropriate.
1 to the financial statements on page 96 The FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team completed provides details of inventory valuation.
a review of the 2014 external audit performed by EY.
In respect of the matters within the scope of their review, In addition the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of no significant findings arose.
costs disclosed as exceptional and the appropriateness of taxation provisions and further details on these are disclosed In 2016 the Committees review of the auditor will take in sections 2.2 and 2.4 respectively.
account of the FRCs May 2015 practice aid in relation to the evaluation of audit quality.
56 IMI plc Audit Committee Report contd Auditor choice, tenure and tendering Compliance hotline The Committee recommended and the Board approved The Committee also reviews the operation of the independent the proposal to re-appoint EY as the external auditor at the compliance hotline for reporting concerns, oversees the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
EY was first appointed more significant reports received and considers how these as auditor for the year ending 31 December 2009 following are investigated and followed up.
We believe that the hotline a competitive tendering process, after which it replaced the process and investigations are effective and proportionate previous auditor.
The term of appointment is annual and there action is taken in response.
are no contractual restrictions on the Committees choice of auditor.
Independent Committee evaluation The Audit Committee reviewed its own performance and To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external terms of reference and received positive feedback from the audit partner responsible for the Group is rotated within EY evaluation exercise carried out by the Board and each of its at least every five years and the current Senior Statutory standing committees.
Auditor has now been in place for three years and will change following completion of the 2017 audit.
Succession planning The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
includes having a second partner in place on the audit team.
New regulations for audit tendering and rotation of audit firms Yours faithfully have been introduced which require mandatory tendering after ten years i. e. ahead of the 31 December 2019 audit and a Ross McInnes change of audit firm ahead of the 31 December 2029 audit, Chairman of the Audit Committee assuming in each case that EY remains in place as auditor 25 February 2016 until the completion of 2018 and 2028 audits respectively.
The Committee reserves the right to run a tender for the audit role at any time but, if not conducted earlier, it will be undertaken in advance of the regulatory deadline ahead of the 2019 audit.
Internal audit The Committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance.
The appointment of a new Director of Risk and Compliance, reporting to the Chief Executive, is intended to accelerate the extension of internal audit into compliance and other areas of non-financial audit activity.
Group Assurance reports through the Director of Risk and Compliance to the Chief Executive.
Group Assurance also has a direct reporting line to the Committee.
Assurance work is primarily directed towards financial control audits but has broadened into other areas including major business change project planning and implementation.
The principal projects reviewed in 2015 were major computer systems implementations and significant capital projects.
Group Assurance reviewed project management, governance and the ability to achieve the project objectives.
These reviews have identified opportunities for process and project management improvements, and Group Assurance will help to facilitate sharing of best practice for similar major projects.
