Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nominations Committee Report Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman of the Nominations Committee Review of time commitments and contributions Dear Shareholder The appointments of the Chairman and non-executive directors Main areas of activity in 2015 are made on the basis of a formal letter of appointment including a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the The Committee carried out a successful search for a nonCommittee.
The Committee considers that the time given to IMI executive director and used The Zygos Partnership as by each non-executive director is sufficient.
The Board is satisfied recruitment consultants.
Committee members interviewed that I have the necessary time to devote to my role as Chairman.
a range of candidates and the Committee made a Since my appointment in May 2015, I have stepped down from recommendation to the Board for the appointment of the Chairmanships of SSE plc and Standard Bank Group Limited Isobel Sharp as a non-executive director resulting in her and subsequently became Chairman of Alliance Trust plc, which appointment with effect from 1 September 2015. is my only other publicly listed company role outside IMI.
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees.
It recommended changes in executive Succession planning responsibilities and supported the selection of the new The Committee reviews Board skills and put in place a structured, Divisional Managing Director, Massimo Grassi, for Precision medium-term plan for Board succession.
During the year we Engineering.
The Board approved all of the recommendations reviewed talent development and succession planning for the made by the Committee for the appointment of new directors top 250 roles in the Group with the support of the Group Human and renewals of appointment for continuing directors.
All of the Resources Director and were encouraged to see that progress directors are recommended for election or re-election at the had been made in terms of embedding good processes and 2016 Annual General Meeting.
cultivating a pipeline of high calibre management talent.
Anita Frew, formerly our senior independent non-executive director, and Bob Stack worked with Mark Selway on the Diversity selection of a successor for the outgoing Chairman, Roberto The Board recognises the benefits a diverse pool of talent can Quarta, resulting in the Board approving my own appointment.
bring to a boardroom and remains committed to increasing Zygos was also retained in respect of the recruitment for a diversity in the businesses by voluntary measures.
continue to review the composition of our management teams and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and Members experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution All of the members of the Committee are regarded as capabilities.
At Board level, there are six nationalities, two of independent other than the Chairman.
Bob Stack was a the five non-executive directors are female and there is a broad mix of backgrounds and experience.
member of the Committee throughout the year.
Roberto Quarta and Anita Frew were members of the Committee until the In 2014 the Board approved a Diversity and Inclusion Policy 2015 Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015, on which date which applies to all IMI employees, contractors and agency Birgit Nrgaard and I became members.
Mark Selway stepped workers, both direct and indirect via third parties.
The policy is down from the Committee on 26 February 2015.
Carl-Peter designed to take a broad approach to diversity and inclusion Forster, Ross McInnes and Isobel Sharp became members in order to reflect the UK legislative framework of the Equality of the Committee on 15 December 2015.
IMI is committed to being compliant with the local legal and best practice frameworks in the countries in which it operates and therefore the application of the Diversity and Inclusion Policy will reflect the legal context in the jurisdictions in which it is applied.
58 IMI plc Nominations Committee Report contd We are committed to ensuring that all employees and workers are treated fairly in an environment which is free from any form of discrimination with regard to the nine protected characteristics outlined in the Equality Act 2010, which are age, religion, race, sex, disability, gender reassignment, marriage civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity and sexual orientation.
Our policy is to recruit the best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of the global footprint of the business, reflecting the location of our customers and markets.
We will continue to seek a diverse pool of the best quality candidates, both internally and when recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Group.
In line with our recruitment practices, the Group strives to produce diverse shortlists for internal and external vacancies and specifically requests this of external providers, with the aim of encouraging and promoting diversity.
The Nominations Committee has agreed to measure progress on diversity metrics including gender and nationality mix, although specific targets have not been set.
At the year end the mix of male and female employees across the Group is as follows: All Managers Senior Board employees managers directors Female 3,197 198 106 2 Female % 26 18 15 22 Male 8,997 885 584 7 Male % 74 82 85 78 As part of the performance management process in 2015, each Divisional Managing Director agreed objectives aimed at improving diversity in their area and our Executive Committee undertook a training session on diversity and inclusion.
Further work is planned in both these areas for 2016.
The Nominations Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and received positive feedback from the evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the Board and each of its committees.
The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
Yours faithfully Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman of the Nominations Committee 25 February 2016
