Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report for the Audit Committee for 2014 15.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and is established to monitor the integrity of financial information and to provide assurance to the Board that the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems are appropriate and regularly reviewed.
Its terms of reference are agreed annually by the Board and are set out on the website.
The Audit Committee continues to focus on ensuring that the Groups systems and controls are operating effectively and are evolving in line with the Groups growth.
A fuller insight into the role, activities and composition of the Audit Committee is provided below.
David Anderson Chairman of the Audit Committee 29 June 2015 Role of the Audit Committee The main duties of the Audit Committee include but are not limited to the following: to ensure that the financial statements of the Group are fair, balanced and understandable: consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function: review the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems: develop and implement the policy on the engagement of the external auditor: make recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditors regarding approval of their remuneration, terms of engagement, appointment, reappointment or removal: review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process: to report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities: monitor the Groups whistleblowing procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise in confidence matters of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up action: and ensure directors expenses are of a reasonable business nature and authorized appropriately.
In the financial year, the Audit Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms of reference and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: reviewing the Groups draft half-yearly and full year results prior to Board approval: reviewing the draft trading updates during the year: assessing the external auditors independence and objectivity: reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups financial statements, which include key areas of scope of work, terms of engagement and fees: reviewing the external auditors report on the results of their year-end audit: Directors report 69 | reviewing the structure of the Group following the acquisitions of the past few years: reviewing the Groups arrangements for the security and patent protection of its intellectual property: reviewing the Groups system to identify and manage risk: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal risks over financial reporting: and reviewing and updating the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The full written terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be located on the Groups website www.
Committee composition The composition of the Audit Committee was unchanged during the year and consists exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee comprised the following directors: David Anderson Chairman Gilles Delfassy Andrew Heath The Audit Committee met five times in 2014 15.
The primary purpose of each of the meetings was to plan the annual audit process, to discuss the changes required in financial reporting, to review the half-year accounts and to review the full year accounts.
Other matters were dealt with as necessary.
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 68.
The external auditors KPMG, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and key members of the Group finance team are also invited to attend meetings.
In accordance with UK Corporate Governance Code provision C. 3.1 the Board should satisfy itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has considered this requirement and, taking into account the financial background of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, David Anderson, it is satisfied that this requirement has been met and that the Audit Committee has sufficient experience to fulfil its obligations in an effective manner.
Significant issues that the Audit Committee considered in relation to the financial statements The Audit Committee considered the key accounting judgements underlying the preparation of the financial statements focusing specifically on: Significant Issues Issue Description Work performed by Audit Committee Revenue recognition including nonRevenue recognized is determined by percentage of completion, The Audit Committee reviewed the internal procedures performed by cash revenue achievement of milestones and schedule of invoicing.
Some contracts management to ensure revenue is recognized appropriately and in are signed in exchange for equity in the customer's business rather accordance with applicable standards.
Valuation and classification of The Group continues to hold strategic investments, required to be The Audit Committee has considered the classifications and any need investments considered for correct accounting treatment as a trade investment, and for impairment at the year end based on current factors.
70 Directors report | Other Issues Issue Description Work performed by Audit Committee Valuation of goodwill Goodwill is material to the Group and require impairment reviews The Audit Committee has reviewed the forecast and the assumptions regularly.
used in the impairment review when considering the need for impairment.
Valuation of inventory The Pure division holds significant stock balances at the year end.
The The Audit Committee has satisfied itself with the internal procedures inventory needs to be assessed for risk of obsolescence.
performed by management to ensure stock provisioning at the year end is appropriate and has reviewed stock movements since the year end to validate the level of provision held.
Accounting for share based Share based payments is a complex and technical area which we The Audit Committee has reviewed the findings of the specialists payments engage specialists to assist in calculating the fair values to attribute to engaged to perform the current year share based payment work.
Recoverability of debtors The nature of the Group's business means that the Group continues to The Audit Committee has satisfied itself with managements regular hold significant debtors at any point.
assessment of outstanding debtors and how they manage the relationship with those outstanding debtors as required.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the history of collection of overdue debts to validate the position.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee have conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems as part of the annual risk review.
The Audit Committee reviewed the process to identify the risks and mitigating actions and performed a detailed review of the findings.
The findings were then presented to the Board for further consideration.
Internal audit In addition under the Code the Audit Committee is required to monitor and review the effectiveness of internal audit activities.
The Group does not have a separate internal audit function and the Audit Committee reviewed whether this was still suitable in the financial year.
During this review the Audit Committee determined that the Group was now of sufficient size and complexity to warrant an internal audit function.
As such steps are underway to create an internal audit function in the business.
External audit process At the start of the audit cycle, KPMG presented their audit strategy, identifying their assessment of the key risks for the purposes of the audit and the proposed scope of their work.
KPMG reports to the Audit Committee at both the half and full-year setting out their assessment of the Groups judgements and estimates in respect of these risks and the adequacy of the reporting.
The Audit Committee meets with KPMG in private at least once a year.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the scope of the audit is appropriate, all significant accounting judgements have been challenged robustly and the audit has been effective.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditor.
During the year the Audit Committee approved the terms of engagement and remuneration to be paid to the external auditor and agreed the scope and approach of the audit.
Directors report 71 | Non-audit services and maintaining auditor independence The Group currently has a policy in place for the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
The policy highlights the importance of independence and objectivity and states that non-audit services can only be provided where these are guaranteed.
In the financial year KPMG did not perform any non-audit work.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considered the auditors overall work plan including the role of the senior statutory auditor and key audit staff and the overall extent of non-audit services.
In order to assess effectiveness the Audit Committee reviewed the arrangements to maintain auditor independence and the auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan including that the proposed resources to execute the plan were consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
Audit tendering and proposed reappointment of auditor KPMG has been the Groups external auditor since 1994.
Whilst the Group has not formally tendered the audit since then, the Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the audit firm in considering whether to recommend the reappointment of the external auditors at the AGM.
The Audit Committee has been monitoring the debate on external audit tendering and has noted the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the FRC in September 2012 and, in particular, the requirement contained in the Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The new Code became effective for the Group on 15 September 2013.
The Audit Committee has also considered the subsequent proposals of both the UK Competition Commission and the European Commission, in particular the transitional arrangements which require KPMG to stand down in 2020.
The Audit Committee will continue to monitor developments in this area.
Aside from the Commission rules above there are no contractual obligations currently restricting the current or future choice of external audit firm.
Tudor Aw was appointed as Group Audit Partner in 2010, and under the requirement to rotate this position every 5 years, will now rotate off the Groups audit after completing the 30 April 2015 financial year audit engagement.
A new individual will be proposed as Group Audit Partner.
Having considered all these matters the Audit Committee concluded that it would recommend to the Board that KPMG should be reappointed as auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
Evaluation of the work of the Audit Committee The work of the Audit Committee was reviewed as part of the Board evaluation by Independent Audit in 2014.
Independent Audit made various recommendations in particular addressing the level of executive attendance at meetings, the role of the Company Secretary in supporting the Committee and the number of issues which the Audit Committee needs to address.
These recommendations have now been addressed and the Audit Committee believes that the Committee works in a more effective way as a result.
