CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A DISCIPLINED APPROACH to our good governance practices that we have been able to deal with the changes to the Board during the year appropriately.
All aspects of governance come under scrutiny during times of change and I am pleased the succession planning process, which is rmly embedded at Board level, has enabled the Nominations Committee to act effectively.
The recruitment process for Stefan Bomhard was nalised in January 2015 and was reported to shareholders in last years Annual Report.
Stefan joined the Group on 1 April 2015 and his statement on pages 20 to 26 sets out his experiences in his first year of ofce and his vision for the future of the Group.
As stated in my statement on pages 18 to 19, John McConnell left the Group on 26 February after 16 years service.
Richard Howes will become Chief Financial officer on 11 April 2016.
Following the departure of Simon Borrows and Vicky Bindra, KEN HANNA Nigel Stein was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in October 2015.
Details of the recruitment process can be Chairman found in the Nominations Committee Report on page 60.
I am also pleased to report that Nigel Northridge became Dear Shareholder the Senior Independent Director in May 2015.
It is the tone set by the Board and the values within the This year, we have decided to focus the governance report organisation that create a culture in which the business more clearly on the key information to shareholders to can thrive and create long-term shareholder value.
The encourage clear and concise reporting.
As a result, we culture is underpinned by a disciplined approach to have moved some of the more routine information on to governance throughout the Group, starting at Board level.
You will be able to nd information on our It is the Boards role to support the Executive Directors investor relations diary and the Committee responsibilities in dening the Groups strategy and it is here that the at www.
com governance, and I hope you nd knowledge, skills and experience of Board members is key this more concise report useful and informative.
to enhancing the quality of the strategic proposals.
The Board considered and approved the new strategic agenda, as set out on pages 20 to 26, and is fully supportive of the strategic objectives and of Stefan and his teams ability to deliver.
In order to effectively monitor implementation and progress, the strategic objectives have been added to the 2016 Board agenda to enable the Board to review each objective in detail throughout the year.
As previously mentioned, it is vital to get the right composition KEN HANNA of Directors for the Board in order to enhance the delivery of Chairman the Groups strategic objectives and I believe it is a testament Statement of Code Compliance The Company was compliant with the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
Details of compliance with Code provision C. 3.7 are given in the Audit Committee Report on page 57.
The information required under DTR7 is given on pages 52 to 80 and forms part of this Report.
52 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its Committees Leadership and the reports can be found on pages 57 to 77.
The terms The Board of Directors is responsible for the long-term of reference for each Committee can be found at www.
success of the Company, for the benefit of its stakeholders.
This is achieved by: After each Committee meeting, the chairperson will report setting the strategic objectives of the Group: to the Board on the business discussed to ensure that all ensuring effective systems are in place to manage risk: Directors are kept up to date with developments and the ensuring the Group operates effective controls to decisions being taken.
The Committees will also recommend minimise risk: certain matters to the Board for its approval.
ensuring that the Group has a strong set of values The Executive Committee consists of the functional directors and standards to which it adheres: and and regional chief executives.
Their biographies can be ensuring the correct people are in place to run the found on page 22.
The iPOM Committee is the Groups risk business and to monitor their performance.
Further details of the risk management framework The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for the Board, can be found on pages 38 to 43. which can be found at www.
Governance structure The Board Inchcape plc Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Corporate Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Delegated Delegated Delegated Delegated Delegated authorities: authorities: authorities: authorities: authorities: Financial Remuneration Group Strategy Board CR Strategy Reporting Policy Operational composition CR Policy Risk Management Incentive plans Management Diversity Internal Control Performance Succession targets planning Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report page 57 page 63 page 60 page 62 Delegated Delegated authorities: authorities: Risk oversight Oversight of iPOM Group Capital Minimum Control Group Committee Committee Framework capital expenditure See page 38 inchcape.
com 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board and Committee meetings The meetings are structured to allow sufficient time to discuss and review financial and operational performance, progress against objectives and strategy and the assessment of risk and internal controls.
Remuneration Nominations Board Audit Committee Committee Committee CR Committee Name Scheduled Attended Scheduled Attended Scheduled Attended Scheduled Attended Scheduled Attended Vicky Bindra 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 Stefan Bomhard 4 4 1 1 Simon Borrows 2 2 1 1 1 1 Alison Cooper 5 5 4 4 1 2 Andre Lacroix 1 1 1 1 Ken Hanna 5 5 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 John Langston 5 5 4 4 2 2 John McConnell 5 5 - Coline McConville 5 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 Nigel Northridge 5 4 1 0 2 2 2 2 Nigel Stein 2 1 1 0 Till Vestring 5 5 2 2 2 2 1 1 Nigel Northridge and Nigel Stein were unable to attend the November Board and Audit Committee meetings due to prior commitments.
Both Directors attended debrief meetings with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Strategy Director after the meetings.
Roles and responsibilities Non-Executive Directors In accordance with the Code, the roles of Chairman and The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to bring a wide range Group Chief Executive are separate.
With the appointment of experience, knowledge and skills to the Board, provide of a new Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent independent judgement in discussions and constructively Director during the year, the roles and responsibilities were challenge the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors reviewed to ensure that they remain appropriate and are all considered to be independent for the purposes of the communicated to the individuals upon appointment.
The information on diversity, experience and length of service is given in the biographies on pages 50 to 51.
Any term beyond six years is subject to rigorous review.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors, and the Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman at the meeting in October.
KEN HANNA STEFAN BOMHARD NIGEL NORTHRIDGE Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director To lead an effective Board by To develop the Groups To act as a sounding board providing direction and focus strategy and business plans for the Chairman.
and promoting open and for approval by the Board.
To serve as an intermediary constructive debate.
To run the Groups to other Directors.
Ensuring that Directors receive day-to-day operations.
To be available to shareholders, information that is accurate, Report to the Board on should they have concerns which relevant and timely.
performance, implementation have not been resolved through Responsibility for composition of strategy and significant normal channels.
of the Board to ensure that the developments.
To hold an annual meeting of members have the right mix of To lead the Executive Committee Non-Executive Directors to evaluate skills, knowledge and experience.
in implementing strategy and the performance of the Chairman.
To chair the Nominations managing risk and the internal Committee.
To regularly engage with shareholders on the Groups activities and progress against objectives.
54 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The actions that arose from the evaluation are: Effectiveness On appointment, Non-Executive Directors receive a letter of Area of focus Concern Action appointment setting out the time commitment required and Succession Concerns New Group Chief Executive and the Companys policy on additional appointments.
Details of planning regarding talent Chief Human Resources officer the composition of the Board, appointments to the Board and pipeline developing an updated people the time commitment required are given in the Nominations strategy to be approved by the Committee Report on page 60.
Board and rolled out in 2016 Development CR Committee Concerns over New CR Committee chair, Group New Directors have a tailored induction programme direction of CR Chief Executive and Chief Human strategy Resources officer developing a designed to ensure that they have sufficient knowledge new strategy to be approved by the of the business and the context in which it operates.
A Committee and rolled out in 2016 standard induction would include a site visit either in the UK or overseas and one-to-one meetings with the Executive Committee members and certain key individuals including Re-election the Group Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller In accordance with the Code, all Directors will stand for and Group Audit Director.
election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM apart from John McConnell who left the Group In order to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors update on 29 February 2016.
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders voted their knowledge and skills regularly, training is provided for to elect or re-elect all Directors.
the Board and individual Directors as required.
During the year, external experts are invited to Board meetings to speak Accountability on relevant topics to give additional insight and context to the business.
At the overseas Board meeting in Athens, Financial and business reporting the Professor of Economics at Athens University gave a The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and presentation to the Board on the Greek economy giving understandable assessment of the Groups position and the Board further insight into the challenges and prospects.
The Board is satisfied that appropriate processes opportunities faced by the business in that region.
are in place to enable it to make this statement and to provide the necessary information on position and Information and support performance, business model and strategy to allow users The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that to make a fair assessment of the business.
A statement the Board has access to relevant and accurate information.
of the Directors responsibilities is set out on page 79.
The going concern statement is set out on page 79.
The Board agendas are agreed in advance by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and include regular items The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining such as reports from the Group Chief Executive, the Chief adequate internal controls of regular financial reporting for Financial officer and Investor Relations.
The reports include the Group, including the consolidation process.
Internal information on operational matters, financial performance controls over the financial reporting framework are designed and strategic developments.
Regional updates, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of to give a deeper view of the markets, are given throughout financial reporting as well as the preparation of the financial the year by the relevant market Chief Executive.
statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Internal Audit team regularly assess the effectiveness of internal controls over The Group Company Secretary also supports the Board financial reporting as well as the preparation of financial by providing advice and services, including access to statements based on the framework contained in the Turnball independent advice, and ensures that an accurate record of guidance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
There the meeting is taken.
If a Director has any concerns about the have been no significant changes to the control environment Company or any of the decisions being taken, this would be and the Board has concluded that the Groups internal recorded in the minutes.
No such concerns arose during 2015. system of controls over financial reporting was effective Evaluation during the year.
Further information on the significant Following the external evaluation in 2014, the Board issues considered by the Audit Committee during the evaluation for 2015 was facilitated internally by way of year are given on pages 58 to 59. a questionnaire which covered oversight responsibilities, Preparation of consolidated accounts Board effectiveness, the performance of the Chairman and the operation and effectiveness of each of the Committees.
All data to be consolidated into the Groups financial statements is reviewed thoroughly by management to ensure The Chairman reviewed the performance of the Nonthat it gives a true and fair reection of the financial position Executive Directors at one-to-one meetings throughout the of the Group.
The Group has established the following internal year and the performance of the Chairman was discussed controls in relation to the process for preparing consolidated by the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present, financial statements: taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The Group Finance department, who are responsible for The results were analysed by the Company Secretary and the producing the consolidated financial statements, consists findings presented to the Board for its review.
The results were of appropriately qualied individuals.
Management very positive and indicated a Board that works well together, regularly monitors developments in accounting in an environment of openness and transparency.
All Directors regulations and considers the impact for the felt they were able to give constructive and valued feedback.
com 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED For each external reporting period, a set of group reporting Each business unit is required to implement a rigorous instructions are distributed to each market.
The local set of internal controls.
From 2016, the Chief Executive and finance teams are required to confirm that they have Finance Director of each business unit will provide written read and understood all instructions.
conrmation, twice yearly, that the effectiveness of the internal control systems has been reviewed, adhered The financial statements of each local market are subject to and remains appropriate.
to a review by a local finance manager prior to being submitted to Group Finance.
Anti-bribery training is in place in all business units and is monitored by the Head of Corporate Assurance.
The Group Finance function will review the submissions of each market to look for unusual or unexpected items.
Any Further information on the Groups Minimum Control unexplained items are queried with local management.
Framework is given in the Audit Committee Report on page 58.
The Groups consolidation, which takes the results of the Audit Committee and the auditor local markets and makes appropriate adjustments, is reviewed as appropriate by members of the Group The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Finance team.
The Audit Committee regularly reports The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed to the Board to enable the Directors to assess the effectiveness by a qualied individual independent of the team who of risk management and internal control systems and is also prepared them.
responsible for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditor.
The Audit Committee Report is on The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft pages 57 to 60. consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee receives reports from management and the external Remuneration auditor on significant judgements and other matters of relevance to the financial statements.
The Board has delegated remuneration matters to The financial statements of all material local markets the Remuneration Committee.
Details of the Companys are subject to external audit.
remuneration policy, how this was implemented during the year and the work of the Remuneration Committee Risk management and internal control can be found on pages to 63 to 77.
The Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten Relations with shareholders its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
During 2015, the Executive Directors, Chairman and the The detailed review behind risk assessment and risk footprint Investor Relations Director met with approximately 200 is delegated to the Audit Committee and the Group institutional investors.
The Investor Relations programme Executive Committee.
includes site visits, roadshows and conferences.
The Board receives details of shareholder opinion surveys on a regular The principal risks are built up from a bottom-up review basis supplied by an external provider.
overlaid with a top-down view from the Executive and iPOM Committees.
The Executive Committee identies the key risks The Chairman also meets external shareholders on an and develops mitigation plans for managing those risks.
The ad-hoc basis and the Investor Relations Report which is Audit Committee monitors and challenges the outputs.
A discussed at each Board meeting updates the Directors description of those risks, an explanation on how they are on views of shareholders, along with detailed market being managed and mitigated and the Boards viability performance and share price analysis.
statement can be found in the Principal Risks report on Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company pages 38 to 43. performance through regular press releases.
These are The key control processes, described below, enable the made available to the London Stock Exchange and on Directors to review the effectiveness of the risk management the Companys website.
Presentations were held for the and internal control systems on an ongoing basis: Groups annual and half yearly results.
These presentations are published on the Companys website.
The Board is Annual Operating Plan AOP is reviewed and approved provided with regular updates on the views raised by by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reviewed by management against the AOP and, where appropriate, revised forecasts Constructive use of the AGM are presented to the Board.
The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to meet the Financial information reported to the Board on a monthly Board and to ask any questions they have regarding the basis including cash ow, balance sheet and key Group.
The Board encourages participation of private performance indicators.
shareholders at the AGM, but for those shareholders Key business process and controls are reviewed regularly unable to attend in person, a prepaid reply envelope by Group Internal Audit and the findings are reported to is sent to enable them to give their views on any issues the Audit Committee at each meeting.
that may be of concern or interest to them.
The Group Clearly dened authority limits including capital is committed to reducing its impact on the environment expenditure approval procedures.
and has recently contacted shareholders to encourage Bank balances are reviewed daily and cash ows participation in electronic communications to reduce compared with budgets weekly.
Shareholders should always ensure that they receive communications in the form most appropriate for their needs and can change the way they receive information at any time.
56 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015
