GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
One of the core requirements of the Code is for the Annual Report and Financial Statements to provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies, and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk and that these remain effective.
The Audit Committee devotes significant time to each of these matters.
This Committee complies with the revised Code issued in September 2014.
The Committees terms of reference were revised in February 2015 to take account of the changes and reviewed and re-adopted in December 2015.
OBJECTIVE The Audit Committees agenda for 2015 included the usual To be responsible for corporate reporting, risk management review of our financial results and controls, our business and internal control procedures, and for maintaining the operations and the management of risk.
The Board relationship with the Companys external auditor.
considers that the Committees Members have broad commercial knowledge and a suitable mix of business MEMBERSHIP and financial experience.
The experience of John Davis, The Membership of the Audit Committee Committee, Cindy Rose, Gareth Bullock and myself was supplemented Member dates and attendance during 2015 are set in 2015 by the addition of David Flaschen to the Committee.
out below: His broad experience is detailed on page 63.
Attendance DR BRENDAN ONEILL Committee during Member 2015 of 3 CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Members since meetings Dr Brendan ONeill 1 January 2008 3 Chairman of the Committee 1 David Flaschen 1 October 2015 1 Gareth Bullock 1 January 2015 3 Cindy Rose 1 August 2013 3 John Davis 1 October 2005 3 1 David Flaschen became a Member of the Audit Committee on 1 October 2015.
76 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS COMMITTEE COMPOSITION reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function The Committees Membership is set out above.
It met three times and for approving, upon the recommendation of the Group during 2015.
David Flaschen attended the one meeting that was Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head held following his appointment to the Board and the end of the of that function: year.
It meets as appropriate with the Executive Directors and monitoring the Groups whistleblowing procedures to ensure management, as well as privately with external and internal that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to auditors.
During the year the Committee received sufficient, be able to raise in confidence matters of possible impropriety, reliable and timely information from the Senior Managers to with suitable subsequent follow-up action: and enable it to fulfil its duties.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls, internal controls and risk GOVERNANCE management systems, including overseeing the work of the The Committees Chairman, Dr Brendan ONeill, is a qualified Risk Committee.
Management Accountant and has extensive experience of Audit Committee procedures.
John Davis is a qualified Chartered ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Accountant and until November 2010 was the Chief Financial During 2015, the Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms Officer of Yell Group plc renamed Hibu plc in July 2012. of reference and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: The meetings of the Committee are structured to investigate reviewing the Groups draft full year and half-yearly results key accounting, audit and risk issues relevant to the Group.
The statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the varied experience of its Members assists in providing a robust externalauditors detailed reports thereon, in particular environment in which these issues are discussed and challenged.
reviewing the opinions of management and the auditor The Group Finance Director, Director of Risk and Compliance, inrelation to the carrying values of the Groups assets: Head of Internal Audit and Head of Group Tax attend all or part of reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups proceedings to provide information to, and be questioned by, the accounting policies: Committee.
The composition of the Committee was reviewed reviewing the impact on the Groups financial statements during the year and the Board and Committee are satisfied that of matters such as the adoption of new or amended ithas the expertise and resource to fulfil its responsibilities IFRSstandards: effectively, including those relating to risk and control.
recommending to the full Board, which adopted the recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP DUTIES as the Groups external auditor: The Committees terms of reference are available on the reviewing and recommending to the Board the audit fee Companys website.
The Committees terms of reference allow and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups itto obtain independent external advice at the Companys external auditor: expense.
No such advice was obtained during 2015. reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups financial statements, which included key areas of scope of The Committee is responsible for: work, key risks on the financial statements, confirmation of reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Financial auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and Statements and advising the Board on whether, taken as a approving the terms of engagement for the audit: whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides reviewing the Groups system of controls and its effectiveness.
theinformation necessary for Shareholders to assess the In particular, it approves the annual Internal Audit plan and Companys performance, business model and strategy: reviews the work done by Internal Audit and actions which monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements areagreed following the work: andany formal announcements relating to the Groups approving the decision to continue with an outsourced Internal performance: Audit function, and overseeing the reappointment of KPMG monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process LLP in this role: andevaluating the external auditor: reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage making recommendations to the Board in relation to the risks including regular consultation with the Head of Internal appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the Audit and in particular the operation of the Groups Risk externalauditor: Committee : and ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups tax policies and the external auditor is maintained, including setting policy andmanagement of tax risks.
for and reviewing non-audit related services and fees: annually reviewing the Groups system of internal controls and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These responsibilities are principally carried out through the Risk Committee whose activities are overseen by the Chairman of the Audit Committee on behalf ofthe Board: 77 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT managements analysis that there was no evidence to support JUDGEMENT AREAS a view that the external loan was not fully recoverable.
In evaluating the appropriateness of the financial statements, the Performance of the PI business is reviewed by Informa Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have management on a quarterly basis and the Committee been adopted and whether management has made appropriate continues to monitor the receivable closely.
The Committee reviews accounting Accounting for acquisitions: papers prepared by management which provide details on the The Committee reviews the judgements involved in identifying main financial reporting judgements.
The Committee also reviews and valuing the consideration and the assets acquired in a reports by the external auditor on the full year and half-yearly business combination or in the acquisition of businesses trade results which highlight any issues with respect to the work and assets.
During the year, there were three major business undertaken on the audit.
During the year end process, the combinations: WS Maney & Son Limited, Ashgate Publishing Committee concentrated on the following significant Ltd and Inc. and Boston Biotech Conference LLC.
The total judgementareas: consideration for each of these acquisitions was between Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets: 10m and 50m, therefore intangible assets were valued The Committee considered whether the carrying value of internally.
The Committee reviewed the valuation methodology goodwill and intangible assets held by the Group should be and challenged management on its assumptions supporting impaired.
The value of goodwill and intangible assets is highly thefair value of intangible and net assets acquired for each material in the context of the Groups Balance Sheet and could significant acquisition in the year.
The Committee concluded be impacted by fluctuations in market and economic that the valuation basis appeared reasonable.
The Committee focused on the significant Management completed the acquisition of Hanley Wood management judgements and assumptions underlying Exhibitions inNovember 2014 but, given the proximity of the managements impairment analysis for goodwill and acquisition tothe year end, at the 2014 year end it provisionally intangibles.
The Committee challenged key assumptions recognised all the excess of consideration over net assets such as discount rates and terminal growth rates applied, acquired as goodwill.
The purchase price adjustment and comparing rates to industry peers and historical performance.
associated intangible asset valuation was completed in 2015.
The Committee took assurance on discount rates and terminal The Committee reviewed the judgements taken by management values through managements use of an independent valuation and concluded that the 2014 Balance Sheet has been expert, who provided risk adjusted discount rates specific to appropriately restated to reflect the finalised valuations.
It also challenged management growth forecasts through analytical review and assessment EXTERNAL AUDITOR of the ability to achieve these forecasts.
Having taken into The Committee is also responsible for the development, account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external the key assumptions and judgements made by management audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring in its impairment analysis appeared reasonable and the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and appropriate and that the carrying value of the goodwill regulatory requirements to the Committee, and day-to-day andintangible assets was fairly stated.
responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
It states that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the Recoverability of long-term receivables: Committee and that the Committee is the primary contact.
The The Committee considered whether the long-term receivable policy also sets out the categories of non-audit services which held by the Group was fully recoverable.
The Group has a the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the long-term external loan provided to the acquirer of the Informa Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
Corporate Training PI business in 2013.
The recoverability of the capital and interest To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the payments is dependent on the financial success of the external auditor, the Committee reviewed: acquirer in managing the PI business over the coming years.
the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role The Committee considered various factors when assessing of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report managements judgement.
The PI business is backed by a and who, in accordance with professional rules, has not held large private equity business.
Monitoring of the performance of office for more than five years, and any changes in the key the PI business shows that it continued to perform reasonably audit staff: in 2015.
The current estimated fair value of the PI business was the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit calculated by applying industry appropriate multiples to relationship: EBITDA consistent with current market valuation assumptions.
a report from the external auditor describing its arrangements This fair value calculated was then compared to the first lien to identify, report and manage any conflicts ofinterest: and borrowings of the PI business and the Informa loan fair value at 31 December 2015.
Under these scenarios there is an excess in value, and the Committee was content that this supported 78 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the existing knowledge of the business makes it the most efficient external auditor, in addition to its approval of the provision and effective way for non-audit services to be carried out.
The ofnon-audit services by the external auditor that exceed fees paid to the external auditor for both audit and non-audit thepre-approval threshold.
services can be found in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee reviewed: Non-audit services, other than audit-related services, provided by the external auditor during 2015 related mainly to consulting the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors for the Knowledge & Networking and Academic Publishing independence and objectivity: Divisions.
These services were approved in accordance the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan with policy.
andany variations from the plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in its POLICY ON NON-AUDIT SERVICES PROVIDED handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR the content of the external auditors reporting on internal PERMITTED NON-AUDIT SERVICES, SUBJECT control.
TO APPROVAL UNDER THE POLICY Acquisition or disposal transaction support services In accordance with best practice, once a year management Tax advisory and compliance work, following an appropriate reviews the performance of external audit to assess the delivery tender process: subject to Committee Chairman pre-approval of the external audit service and identify areas for improvement.
for significant contracts and annual review of overall amounts Deloittes performance is assessed as to whether it exceeds, Expatriate tax work, subject to Group HR approval and meets or was below expectations for a variety of factors.
An Committee Chairman pre-approval for significant contracts assessment questionnaire is completed by key stakeholders and annual review of overall amounts at both Group and Divisional levels across key geographic Other assurance services no pre-approval is required where locations.
The results of this assessment process are reviewed it is in the normal course of the auditors work to perform by the Committee.
suchactivities Following this process, the Committee has recommended to PROHIBITED NON-AUDIT SERVICES the Board that Deloitte LLP is reappointed as the Groups Bookkeeping or other services related to accounting records external auditor at the 2016 AGM.
Deloitte LLP has been the or financial statements Groups external auditor since 2004 when the last external audit Consultancy services related to the implementation of tender was carried out.
The Committee considers that the management information systems relationship with the external auditor is working well and remains Appraisal or valuation services are prohibited where significant satisfied with its effectiveness.
In 2015 William Touche replaced subjectivity is involved as the auditor may have to audit its Anthony Morris as the senior statutory audit partner.
There are ownwork no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of Legal services if these are related to significant Group matters external auditor.
The Committee has reviewed the requirements Tax services on a contingent fee basis of the Code and the non-binding suggested transitional Financial information systems design and implementation arrangements in the FRC guidance relating to the new provision Appraisal or valuation services for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out Actuarial services to tender at least every 10 years.
In compliance with the Internal Audit outsourcing services which are restricted to the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies provision of specialist resources where the external audit team Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender will not place reliance on its own work Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, the Committee has concluded that its current intention is to Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by conduct a re-tender process in 2016, for appointment for the 2017 financial year, with a decision to be taken in the middle DR BRENDAN ONEILL of the year.
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 10 February 2016 The Group has in place a policy for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
This policy ensures the firms services may only be provided where auditor objectivity and independence may be safeguarded and where fees payable either for assigned work or in any year overall do not exceed the amount of fees payable for its audit work, except in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee considers that certain non-audit services should be provided by the external auditor, because its 79 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
