04 Board and governance Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Nomination committee report Chairmans introduction the Company, both executive and way that the Board has come non-executive, to ensure its continued together to provide effective I am pleased to present ability to operate effectively.
and entrepreneurial leadership the Nomination Committee to the Company.
the Committee report Last year, the members of the Ian Marchant Committee took a leading role in for the year ended 31 March Chairman assembling the Board in preparation 2015, which explains the Nomination Committee for, and subsequent to, the IPO.
activities of the Committee during the year.
This year the Committee has considered the performance and effectiveness of the new Board The Nomination Committee is and of the individual Directors.
responsible for keeping under We are generally pleased with the review the leadership needs of Composition f considering succession planning Board appointments and diversity The Committee comprises Ian for Directors and other senior The Committee has a selection Marchant as Chairman, Chris Cole executives, taking into account process whereby it will generally Senior Independent Director, the skills and expertise that will be evaluate the balance of skills, Alan Bryce, Ray King and Baroness needed on the Board in the future: knowledge, independence and Sally Morgan and details of their experience on the Board and, in f reviewing the time required from attendance at meetings is set out light of this evaluation, prepare a Non-executive Directors: and on page 47.
Mike Kinski, a Nominee description of the role and capabilities Director of the Principal Shareholder, required for a particular appointment.
f considering Directors conflicts is invited to attend Committee of interests.
The Board recognises the benefits of meetings as appropriate.
The diversity, including gender diversity, Committee met once during the year.
The Committees activities during in all of its activities as set out in the year Responsibilities the Board Diversity Policy which The work of the Committee during The Committees terms of reference, is available on the Companys the year included: which are subject to annual review, website www.
Board are available on the Companys appointments will be made on merit f a review of the structure, size and website.
The Committees and against objective criteria, taking composition of the Board and its responsibilities include: into account the benefits of diversity committees, taking account of on the Board, and regardless of the results of Board evaluation: f regularly reviewing the structure, gender, race, religion, age or disability.
size and composition of the The Committee may use open f a review of Board and senior Board and evaluating the advertising or the services of external executive succession planning balance of skills, knowledge, search advisers, and will consider and leadership needs: independence, experience and candidates from a wide range of diversity on the Board, and backgrounds to ensure a f consideration of Directors conflicts making recommendations to comprehensive search.
of interest: the Board thereon: The Board aims, over the mediumf a review of Non-executive Director f considering and making term, to increase the proportion of time requirements: and recommendations to the Board in women on the Board but has chosen respect of appointments to the not to set any measurable objectives f a review of progress against the Board and Board committees: for the time being.
The Committee Board Diversity Policy, and considers and, as appropriate, will consideration of the need for agree annually, measurable objectives.
