GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT AND RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS COMPLIANCE STATEMENT RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Informas Board is accountable to the Groups Shareholders Informa is committed to maintaining good communications foritsstandards of governance, and is committed to the with investors.
It has a full-time Director of Investor Relations, principles ofcorporate governance contained in the Code of Corporate Communications and Brand and engages with investors theFinancial Reporting Council FRC published in September on a regular and ad hoc basis in a variety of ways and formats.
2014 which canbe viewed online at www.
uk Our-Work Financial information was reported on a quarterly basis in 2015.
Publications Corporate-Governance  Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director give Code-2014.
presentations on the half-yearly and full year results in face-to-face The Board is pleased to report that Informa complied with the group meetings with institutional investors, analysts and the media, provisions of the Code during 2015. which are also accessible via webcast on www.
After the release of the trading updates, which replaced the This report, along with reports from the Audit Committee, the Interim Management Statements from 2015 onwards, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Report explain Company holds conference calls with institutional investors, how Informa applied the principles of good governance set analysts and the media.
In addition to these group presentations, meetings are held with 2015 was the Groups first year of compliance with the individual institutional Shareholders after theannouncement of amendments introduced to the Code in September 2014.
This the Groups half-yearly and full year results.
These meetings also included changes around risk management, internal controls and take place outside of the post-results period, with the Group the reporting of the ongoing viability of the business, specifically: undertaking regular investor roadshows indifferent geographies and responding to individual ad hoc requests for discussions.
Providing a robust risk assessment the Code requires the Directors to confirm that they have carried out a robust They typically cover issues related to the Groups performance, including strategy, governance, risks and opportunities.
In 2015, assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, investor meetings were held in London, Edinburgh, New York, Boston, Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, futureperformance, solvency or liquidity.
This is included withinthe principal risk section of the Strategic Report on Toronto, Paris, Barcelona and Frankfurt.
The Group hosts an annual Investor Day, when it focuses on Providing a long-term viability statement the Code requires aparticular Division, topic or theme, inviting investors and the Directors to provide an annual statement on the long-term analysts to a series of detailed presentations and meetings, viability of the business.
This is included within the Strategic oftengiving them the opportunity to meet members of the report on page 21. widermanagement team.
The 2015 Investor Day was held in Washington DC, to coincide with one of the Groups major US In accordance with the Code, the Audit Committee has also provided assurance to the Board that the Annual Report and Exhibitions, Greenbuild.
It included a tour of the show, alongside presentations from both the Executive Management Team and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
All the matters that have been brought to the members of the Senior Management Teams from the Academic Publishing and Global Exhibitions Divisions.
attention of the Board during the year have been reflected in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Director of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and Brand provides the Board with a monthly report on investor activity, including feedback from analysts and institutional investors, the latest analyst reports on the Group, movements in the share register and related market activity.
Following meetings held withShareholders after the half-yearly and full year results announcements, the Board is provided with detailed feedback from the Executive Directors, the Director of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and Brand, the Groups stockbrokers and its communications advisers on investor perceptions.
Derek Mapp as Chairman and Gareth Bullock as Senior Independent Director also provide the Board with feedback onany issues raised with them by Shareholders.
66 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
