04 Board and governance Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Audit committee report Chairmans introduction internal control and risk management.
Invitations are also extended to All participants have made valuable the external auditor, the Group I am pleased to report contributions to our meetings: I thank Chairman, the CFO, the Group on the activities of the them for this.
Financial Controller and the internal Audit Committee the auditor.
The Committee is provided I am joined on the Committee by with the opportunity to meet with Committee for the year three other independent Nonboth the external and the internal ended 31 March 2015. executive Directors.
The Company auditor privately, without Secretary acts as Secretary to the management being present, at the Since the last Audit Committee Committee.
As Chairman I have end of each Committee meeting.
I report my fellow Committee recent and relevant financial also have private meetings with the members and I have met formally experience through my past roles external auditor and internal auditor.
We have worked as a former CEO and CFO.
with the management team and the Ray King external auditor KPMG LLP to Radu Gruescu, a Nominee Director Chairman safeguard shareholders interests in of the Principal Shareholder, is invited Audit Committee the key areas of financial reporting, to attend Committee meetings.
f oversee the relationship with the Role of the Audit Committee f monitor the effectiveness of the external auditor, including: The Committee operates within the Groups system of internal controls, terms of reference set by the Board including financial controls and terms of engagement: and in accordance with the Corporate those related to the risk of fraud: independence, objectivity Governance Code the Code and and effectiveness: f assess the Groups policies and FRC guidance.
These are available procedures regarding bribery and at www.
The main duties remuneration: whistle-blowing: are to: applying the Group policy in respect of non-audit services: and f review the Groups key business f review the Groups financial risks prior to their consideration by statements and the appropriateness making recommendations to the Board: of the underlying accounting the Board on the appointment, policies, judgments and estimates: re-appointment or removal of f monitor the scope, resources and the external auditor, before effectiveness of internal audit: and being put to shareholders in general meeting.
Work carried out by the Audit Committee Date of meeting Main agenda items 16 June 2014 Internal audit and risk management 2013 14 annual report and preliminary statement External audit findings Effectiveness of external auditor Code compliance matters 10 November 2014 Interim results statement KPMG audit fee proposal and engagement letter 26 November 2014 KPMG audit plan for the year Internal audit update IT penetration testing patch policy 12 February 2015 Review of Audit Committee terms of reference, its effectiveness and its training requirements Internal audit review of internal audit charter, update on 2014 2015 work, resourcing and work plans for 2015 2016 and consideration of Grant Thorntons effectiveness and re-appointment Infinis Energy plc 2014 2015 annual report: structure, timetable and responsibilities review and approval of accounting policies Effectiveness of internal controls and review of key business risks Assessment of KPMGs independence and objectivity Other audit related matters 22 May 2015 Internal audit update Risk policy and review of latest risk assessment 2014 2015 annual report and preliminary statement External audit findings Effectiveness of external auditor Fraud, bribery and whistle-blowing controls and procedures Code compliance matters 49 BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Audit committee report continued Annual report The six Welsh sites were sold to KPMG LLP has been the auditor of The Committee confirms that it has Cymru Welsh Water and the the Infinis Holdings Group since its advised the Board that it considers remaining four sites were sold to H2O formation in 2006.
Infinis currently the annual report, as a whole, to be Power Limited.
The Hydro portfolio intends to tender its audit in 2016 fair, balanced and understandable was a separate business segment and when the current lead partner and provides the information has therefore been classified as a is due to rotate off the audit.
necessary for shareholders to discontinued operation in line with the The audit has not previously been assess the Groups business model, requirements of IFRS.
put to tender and there are no strategy and performance.
contractual obligations restricting The separation and presentation of the Committees recommendation The Committee reviewed all the discontinued operation from of an external auditor.
significant issues concerning the continuing operations in the financial financial statements and considers statements have been reviewed by Fees paid to KPMG LLP for both that the key areas of financial the Board and the Committee.
Both audit and non-audit services are judgment are as follows: have concluded that the disclosures disclosed in note 7 in the accounts.
are appropriate and that the loss on In the current year fees for non-audit f carrying value of goodwill, disposal has been fairly stated.
services were 0.1 million and the intangible assets and property, Audit Committee is satisfied that plant and equipment: and Risk management the provision of these services was The Committee has reviewed the conducted by teams independent f disposal of the Hydro business.
Company's risk management from the audit team and did not policy, procedures, results of risk compromise the independence of The Committees approach to assessments conducted and the external auditor.
assessing these key areas of financial sources of assurance regarding risk judgment is explained below and, management and concluded that The Committee has an Auditor where applicable, in the auditors the framework and its operation Independence policy, under which report on pages 70 to 71. are appropriate for the Company.
the Committee is able to satisfy itself that there are no factors which Key areas of financial judgment External audit may impinge on the independence Carrying value of goodwill, In evaluating external auditor and objectivity of the external intangible assets and property, effectiveness, the Committee, at its audit process.
The policy restricts plant and equipment meeting on 22 May 2015, discussed employment of former employees Infinis has goodwill of 150 million, performance with both management of the external auditor and the intangible assets of 306 million and the external auditor aided by an provision of non-audit related and property, plant and equipment objective checklist which included: services.
For permitted non-audit of 422 million at 31 March 2015. services, delegated authorities are in Goodwill is assessed annually for f the quality of the audit plan place to ensure the expenditure on impairment.
In addition intangible outlined at the start of the audit: non-audit fees does not compromise assets and property, plant and auditor objectivity and independence.
equipment are also assessed if an f execution against that plan: The policy will be reviewed when the indication of impairment arises.
The new EU controls come into force.
f the quality of the reporting of assessment requires considerable key issues and risks, and the judgment, taking account of future Internal audit appropriateness of work operational and financial plans, as The Committee has responsibility undertaken to address them: explained in note 3 to the accounts.
for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal f performance during both formal Forecasts used in the impairment audit function and for appointing and Committee meetings and regular models were based on the Groups discharging the persons responsible informal meetings with the long-term plan.
The Committee for this area.
The Committee has Committee Chair: received a detailed report on the decided to continue to outsource outcome of the impairment review, this function and re-appoint Grant f management feedback arising including the key assumptions and Thornton UK LLP to provide internal from the audit: and sensitivities.
The impairment review audit coverage in 2015 16. was also a focus of the external f the Committees assessment of auditors, and they too have reported The Committee has reviewed the evidence of auditor objectivity to the Committee.
The Committee findings of the internal audits and challenge.
questioned management and the completed during the year and the auditors regarding the judgments totality of work performed by internal The Committee has, taking these made, and concluded that these audit and concluded that sufficient matters into account, satisfied assets were not impaired and audit coverage had been obtained.
themselves with the effectiveness approved the disclosures in the The Committee and management of the external auditor and has financial statements.
believe that this approach continues recommended to the Board that a to provide access to a better range proposal be put forward for KPMG Disposal of the Hydro business of skills and more flexible resourcing LLP to be reappointed as external On 3 February 2015 Infinis completed than an in-house model would auditor to the Company at the AGM.
the sale of its Hydro portfolio for a currently provide.
