BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction underpins the success of a At this early stage in our life as a company and creates and preserves public company, it is important Welcome to our corporate shareholder value to the benefit of that we continue to develop our governance report, which other stakeholders.
Good governance Board structures, processes and confirms our commitment is an essential feature of a well run procedures to ensure that our to corporate governance company.
The Companys business governance remains relevant has a long embedded strong platform and focused on achieving Infinis and explains how it operates of good governance.
I believe that strategy and improving the for the benefit of Infinis the business has a mindset of business.
During the year, the and its shareholders.
doing what is right, which guides Board undertook a rigorous business decisions.
review of our performance and As a FTSE 250 listed company, effectiveness and, in line with Under my leadership the Board Infinis is subject to the UK the Codes recommendations, manages, controls and directs the Corporate Governance Code 2012. we plan that next years review Group, and determines its values and I am pleased to report on how the should be facilitated by an external standards.
The Directors constructively Codes principles relating to the consultant.
The Board recognises challenge management, which, led by role and effectiveness of the Board the importance of keeping our the CEO, is responsible for running the have been applied.
membership, and that of our business, driving performance and committees, under review, to The Board is committed to value creation.
A boards composition ensure that an acceptable balance maintaining the highest standards is key to its effectiveness and we is maintained and to ensure of corporate governance within the believe our Board has the diversity progressive refreshing of the Board.
Company and maintaining a sound and mix of skills, experience, framework for the control and independence and knowledge of the Ian Marchant management of the business, as Company to enable us to discharge Chairman we believe that good governance our responsibilities successfully.
Introduction and compliance with Independent Non-executive were nominated by, and represent, the UK Corporate Governance Code Directors, two non-Independent the Companys principal shareholder, 2012 the Code Non-executive Directors and two Monterey Capital II S. r. l. the Throughout the year ended 31 March Executive Directors.
2015 and to the date of this report, are set out on pages 40 to 42.
The The Board is committed to the Infinis has complied with the provisions Directors have a wide and current highest standards of corporate of the Code save that in relation to range of financial, corporate, risk, governance and maintaining a provision 5.2, the Company was policy-making, sector and Company sound framework for the control without a Company Secretary in the experience and knowledge, and management of the business.
period from 18 December 2014 until which enables the Board and its 19 January 2015.
Details are set out committees to discharge their duties The Board has formally adopted on page 45 and during this period and responsibilities effectively.
a schedule of matters reserved for the Deputy Company Secretary and its decision which is reviewed on an The Board keeps its membership, the Groups Head of Legal Services annual basis and is available on our and that of its committees, under provided the Board with company website www.
Among review, to ensure that an acceptable secretarial support and advice.
those matters included are: balance is maintained and that the The Code is publicly available at collective skills and experience of f Group strategy, structure the website of the UK Financial its members may be refreshed.
and capital: Reporting Council, www.
It is satisfied that all Directors have This corporate governance report sufficient time to devote to their f annual budget: describes how we have applied the roles and that undue reliance is principles of the Code.
not placed on any one individual.
f financial reporting and controls and shareholder communications: How the Board operates The Board determines whether Structure and role of the Board Non-executive Directors are f system of internal control and The Board is structured to ensure independent.
The Chairman satisfied risk management: effective management, control and the independence test on his direction of the Group, providing appointment to the Board.
Alan Bryce, f major capital projects, contracts, entrepreneurial leadership, Chris Cole, Ray King and Baroness acquisitions or investments: and determining the Groups values Sally Morgan are all considered and standards and ensuring that its by the Board to be independent f corporate governance.
obligations to its shareholders and Non-executive Directors.
The Board Day-to-day management of the stakeholders are understood and met.
does not regard Mike Kinski and business is delegated to the CEO and Radu Gruescu as being independent The Board has an appropriate balance, the Executive Management Team.
as they are both directors of Terra with a Non-executive Chairman, four Firma Capital Partners Limited and 44 04 Board and governance Infinis Ener Infinis Energy plc Annual r gy plc Annual report and ac eport and acc counts 20 ounts 2015 15 Key Board roles f Providing leadership to the There is a clear division of Executive Management Team: responsibilities between the running f Developing proposals for the Board of the Board and the executive to consider in all areas reserved for responsibility for the running of the its judgment: and Companys business, with the roles being carried out by the Chairman f Implementing any Board-approved and CEO, respectively.
of responsibilities between the Chairman, the CEO and the Senior Non-executive Directors Independent Director are clearly The Non-executive Directors have defined in writing and available via a range of experience, skills and our website www.
com, backgrounds which enable them to providing a system of checks and make a valuable contribution and balances in which no individual has provide independent judgment unfettered powers of decision.
and constructive challenge to the Board.
They: Chairman The Chairman is responsible for: f Have key involvement with setting strategy, scrutinising the f Leading and managing the Board performance of management and ensuring it operates effectively in meeting agreed goals and and with the highest standards of objectives, and monitoring the corporate governance: reporting of performance: f Promoting a culture of openness, f Satisfy themselves on the integrity encouraging all Board members of financial information and that to involve themselves in debate financial controls and systems of and applying sufficient challenge risk management are robust to deliver an effective decision and defensible: making process: f Are responsible for determining f Fostering relationships between appropriate levels of Executive the Non-executive and Directors remuneration: and Executive Directors: f Have a prime role in appointing and, f Leading the Boards consideration where necessary, removing Executive of strategy and risk appetite: and Directors, and in succession planning.
f Ensuring shareholder views are Company Secretary discussed at Board meetings The Company Secretary: and that communication with f Ensures good information flows shareholders and other within the Board and its committees stakeholders is effective.
and between senior management The Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors: The Senior Independent Director: f Ensures compliance with Board procedures and applicable rules f Is a point of contact for those and regulations: shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other than f In conjunction with the Chairman, through the normal channels of facilitates the induction of new the Chairman, the CEO or other Directors: and Executive Directors: and f Is available to all Directors to f Acts as a sounding board for provide advice and assistance the Chairman and as a trusted on matters of governance.
intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter During the year, he met with the for the Board.
Non-executive Directors without the Chairman being present to appraise Samantha Calder, who was Group the Chairmans performance.
Company Secretary since 2006, passed away on 18 December 2014.
The CEO The Deputy Company Secretary and The CEO is responsible for: the Groups Head of Legal Services provided the Board with company f Running the Groups business in secretarial support and advice until close collaboration with, and with Graham Bisset was appointed to the the support of, the rest of the position on an interim basis with Executive Management Team: effect from 19 January 2015.
45 BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Appointments and re-election Board and its committees.
The its own performance and that of its to the Board Company supports the training committees and Directors.
The Subject to the Articles, Directors may needs of Directors by arranging process, which was facilitated by be appointed by the Company by site visits and working sessions with a questionnaire completed by all ordinary resolution or by the Board.
operational managers and external Directors, addressed a wide range A Director appointed by the Board advisors.
The Chairman agrees with of matters and the results were holds office only until the next each Director their individual training summarised in a report that was following Annual General Meeting and development needs as and reviewed and discussed by the of the Company and is then eligible when required.
This review indicated that the for re-appointment.
The Nomination Directors have regular opportunities Board was generally satisfied with Committee ensures a formal, rigorous to meet, both formally and socially, performance and no major areas of and transparent process for and discuss matters with members concern were identified.
As a result appointing new Directors to the of the Executive Management Team of the process it has been agreed Board.
The Principal Shareholder has and other senior staff: they have that certain detailed aspects of the contractual rights to appoint Nominee continuous access to executive Board programme should be kept Directors which are set out in the advice and support via an open under review.
additional information for door arrangement.
The Non-executive Directors have shareholders section on pages 101 to Board meetings and procedure held occasional meetings with the 104.
The current Nominee Directors The Board schedules meetings Chairman without the Executive are Radu Gruescu and Mike Kinski.
not less than six times a year, with Directors being present.
The The Non-executive Directors letters additional meetings being convened Chairman has met with the individual of appointment are available for where circumstances require for Directors to assess their performance public inspection.
timely decision making on ad hoc on a one-to-one basis, supported by The Articles provide that, at every matters.
Between these meetings, self-assessment forms completed AGM of the Company, any Director scheduled business updates for the by the Director that helped to guide who has been appointed by the Board Board also take place by telephone discussions.
The performance of since the last AGM shall retire from conference call or if formal decision the Chairman was appraised by the office and may offer themselves for making is required.
Non-executive Directors led by the re-appointment by the members.
Senior Independent Director who Board meeting agendas are planned Notwithstanding the terms of the considered their combined view by the Chairman, in consultation with Articles, it is the Companys policy with the Chairman.
In the next year, the CEO, the Company Secretary that all of the Directors shall stand the Board intends to engage an and other Board members, and for annual re-election at every independent external consultant to with reference to its annual Board AGM in accordance with the Code.
The Board receives Non-executive Directors will be regular performance reports and Succession planning put forward for re-election by periodic business reports from the The Board is ultimately responsible shareholders on an annual basis and Executive Management Team.
Clear for ensuring adequate succession if the shareholders of the Company and comprehensive supporting planning for the Board and senior do not re-elect any Non-executive papers are issued in a timely fashion management to maintain an Director, his or her appointment approximately one week before a appropriate balance of skills and will terminate automatically.
experience within the Company Any term beyond six years for a and on the Board, and to ensure Directors have access to the services Non-executive Director will be subject progressive refreshing of the Board.
of the Company Secretary and to particularly rigorous review by can make enquiries of the Executive The Nomination Committee gives the Nomination Committee, taking Management Team whenever full consideration to succession into account the need for continual required.
Directors can also take planning for Directors and other refreshment of the Board.
independent professional advice if senior executives in the course of Induction, business awareness they deem this to be necessary, at its work, taking into account the and professional development the Companys expense, subject to challenges and opportunities facing To ensure a full understanding of the due compliance with any procedures the Company, and the skills and business and their responsibilities, laid down by the Company from expertise that will, therefore, be new Board members undergo a time to time.
needed on the Board in the future.
full, formal and tailored induction The Committee has formulated plans The Executive Management Team programme upon appointment.
for succession of both Executive and are all invited to attend Board Tailored and appropriate induction Non-executive Directors, including meetings and generally do attend is also provided for Directors when the key roles of the Chairman of the and participate in discussions.
Board finds this helpful as part of its Directors are expected to regularly review and decision making process.
Conflicts of interest update and refresh their skills and Directors have a statutory duty to Board effectiveness knowledge, including their awareness avoid actual or potential conflicts Under the supervision of the of the Company and its business, in of interest.
The Articles give the Chairman, the Board has reviewed order to carry out their roles on the Directors the power to authorise 46 04 Board and governance Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 conflicts of interest and set out the Committees of the Board Where, exceptionally, a Director is procedure, which the Board believes The Board has delegated certain unable to attend a meeting they will has operated effectively, by which powers and responsibilities to the receive and review relevant papers situations giving rise to potential Audit Committee, Nomination and are encouraged to give their conflicts are identified and authorised Committee and Remuneration views and comments on matters to if appropriate.
Directors are required Committee, each of which operates be discussed to the relevant Chairman to declare to the Board the nature under written terms of reference, in advance of the meeting.
and extent of an interest in an actual approved by the Board, and Time allocation or potential conflict as soon as published on the Companys website Under their letters of appointment reasonably practicable.
The annual Board the Chairman and Non-executive must provide sufficient detail about programme also covers the work Directors are expected to devote such the conflict for the Board to be able of each committee.
Minutes of time as is necessary for the proper to consider the matter, if necessary.
meetings of the committees where performance of their duties.
The Articles ensure that a Director appropriate are made available to with a conflict of interest shall not all Directors, and each committee count towards the quorum nor vote Chairman reports on committee on any resolution relating to their activities to subsequent Board conflict, and can be excluded from meetings.
The relevant committee the receipt of information, Chairman attends the AGM to answer involvement in the discussion any questions on the work of the surrounding the conflict, and be committee.
The Company Secretary subject to such other terms as the acts as Secretary to all the Board may determine.
Two of the Directors, Radu Gruescu A discussion of the role, operation, and Mike Kinski, were nominated by structure and composition of the the Principal Shareholder as Nominee Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Directors.
Under the terms of the Committees can be found in the Relationship Agreement, if it should respective committee reports on be determined by the Board that pages 49 to 65, which are incorporated there is a conflict matter, the Principal into this report by reference.
Shareholder has agreed to ensure Board and committee attendance that the Nominee Directors will not be The table below sets out Directors present or vote on a conflict matter attendance at Board meetings at any meeting of the Board or any together with their attendance as committee of the Board.
Furthermore, members at Audit, Nomination and unless approved by the Board, the Remuneration Committee meetings Nominee Directors shall not be during the year.
The numbers in entitled to receive any information brackets represent the maximum relating to a conflict matter and, if number of meetings that each they do so, they will not be entitled Director was entitled to attend as a to communicate that information to member of that committee.
The table the Principal Shareholder unless disregards those committee meetings separately approved.
where a Director was invited, or All actual or potential conflicts entitled, to attend the meeting but approved by the Board are recorded was not a member of that committee.
in an interests register, which is reviewed by the Nomination Committee to ensure the procedure is operating effectively and to reassess authorisations.
Director Position Independent Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Non-executive Committee Committee Committee Director Ian Marchant Non-executive Chairman 9 9 6 6 1 1 Alan Bryce Non-executive Director 9 9 4 4 6 6 1 1 Gordon Boyd Chief Financial Officer 9 9 Chris Cole Senior Independent 8 9 3 4 6 6 1 1 Non-executive Director Radu Gruescu Non-executive Director 9 9 Raymond King Non-executive Director 9 9 4 4 6 6 1 1 Mike Kinski Non-executive Director 8 9 Eric Machiels Chief Executive Officer 8 9 Baroness Sally Morgan Non-executive Director 9 9 4 4 6 6 1 1 Board or Committee Chair 47 BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Internal control and Relations with shareholders We use the AGM to communicate risk management The Board prioritises effective with private and institutional The Board recognises its engagement with shareholders shareholders and encourage their responsibilities to present a fair, through regular communications, participation.
The Chairman of each balanced and understandable general meetings and other investor of the Board committees attends assessment of the Groups position relations activities.
The annual results the AGM and is available to answer and prospects and to provide the are included in the Annual report questions.
Separate resolutions are information necessary for shareholders and Accounts and presentations are proposed on each substantially to assess the Companys performance, made to institutional investors, different matter to allow it to receive business model and strategy.
analysts and the media on the full proper consideration and the results year and half year results.
Regulatory of the AGM are announced to the The Groups approach to risk news announcements are published market and published on the Groups management is discussed further to the market through a regulated website following its conclusion.
in the risk management section on information service and are available pages 24 to 26.
By order of the Board on the Groups website www.
The website also includes The Groups risk management and Graham Bisset general information about the Group internal controls processes are Company Secretary and its activities together with more designed to ensure the risks associated 28 May 2015 specific information for investors.
with conducting our business activities are effectively controlled in line with The Chairman has an open the Groups risk appetite.
We believe relationship with the Groups major the processes provide reasonable, shareholders, offering them the but not absolute assurance, against opportunity to meet to discuss material misstatement or loss.
governance and corporate matters and to ascertain their views.
All other The Board, through the Audit Directors, including the Senior Committee, has reviewed the Independent Director, have the assessment of risks, the risk opportunity to attend scheduled management process and has meetings with major shareholders considered the effectiveness of the and are expected to attend meetings system of internal controls for the if requested by major shareholders.
year and up to the date of approval No information is shared which is of this report by the Board.
There are not available to shareholders established procedures and controls generally.
The Chairman ensures that in place to identify entities whose shareholder views are discussed at results must be consolidated with Board meetings and that Directors the Groups results.
develop an understanding of shareholders concerns and We believe that the process followed preference.
The views of the Principal by the Board in reviewing the system Shareholder are communicated of internal controls accords with the through its Nominee Directors.
guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
This is in accordance with the provisions of the Code, which provide that the Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board provides oversight to help ensure that the Group maintains sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Groups system of risk management and internal control has operated throughout the year and continues to operate up to the date of approval of this Annual report.
