STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS INTRODUCTION Informa PLC is the ultimate holding company of the Group and is controlled by its Board of Directors.
The Companys statement ofcompliance with the Code can be found on page 66.
LEADERSHIP Informas Board is chaired by Derek Mapp and consists of two Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Their biographies, including qualifications, skills and experience, are set out on pages 62 and 63.
The Board was delighted to appoint Stephen Davidson and David Flaschen as Non-Executive Directors on 1 September 2015.
John Davis will step down from the Board at the AGM on 19 May 2016 after 10 years of service.
The Boards main roles are to create value for Shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership for the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are made available so that those objectives can be met.
The Board also reviews risk management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK EXECUTIVE BOARD MANAGEMENT TEAM AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION NOMINATION CHAIRED BY: COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DR BRENDAN ONEILL CHAIRED BY: CHAIRED BY: STEPHEN DAVIDSON DEREK MAPP Reviews and is responsible for: Reviews, recommends to the Reviews, recommends to the Integrity of the financial statements, Board and is responsible for: Board and is responsible for: effectiveness of the external audit The overall Executive remuneration The structure, size and composition process, recommending the policy, determining the Chairman of the Board and appointment of appointment and remuneration of and Non-Executive fees, approving Directors and Committee Members, external auditor, reviewing internal the Remuneration Report, and the and succession planning of the Board.
control systems, reviewing design andimplementation of all effectiveness of the Internal Audit Share Incentive Plans and pension function, monitoring and reviewing arrangements for the Executive effectiveness of the Companys internal Directors.
financial controls, internal controls and RISK COMMITTEE CHAIRED BY: GARETH WRIGHT Reports to the Audit Committee and is responsible for: Advising the Board and Audit Committee on the Groups overall risk appetite, exposures and current and future risk strategy, reviewing the Groups internal financial controls andrisk management systems, the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and prevention of bribery, and ensuring adherence to the Groups risk policies.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED BOARD MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES At each meeting the Board receives information on current trading, Divisional performance, financing, potential acquisitions and investor relations analysis.
At certain times of the year the Board reviews and discusses budgets, capital expenditure, risks, financial statements and strategy.
The Board is also provided with updates on changes in legislation and the business environment when appropriate, as well as regular investor feedback.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board.
All Board and Committee minutes are circulated as soon as possible after each meeting.
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year are set out below: Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings of 7 meetings of 3 meetings of 6 meetings of 3 Derek Mapp 7 3 Stephen A. Carter 7 3 Gareth Wright 7 1 Gareth Bullock 7 3 3 3 John Davis 7 3 6 Dr Brendan ONeill 7 3 6 3 Cindy Rose 7 3 3 Helen Owers 7 6 2 Stephen Davidson 2 2 3 David Flaschen 3 1 4 Geoff Cooper 1 1 1 Gareth Bullock became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 30 March 2015 and stepped down as a Member of the Committee on 10 November 2015.
2 Stephen Davidson was appointed to the Board and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2015.
3 David Flaschen was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2015 and as a Member of the Audit Committee on 1 October 2015, and attended all meetings heldfollowing his appointment.
4 Geoff Cooper stepped down from the Board and the Remuneration Committee on 30 March 2015.
ROLES OF THE BOARD The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors comply with the guidance from the UK Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and as such are clearly defined.
These are set out in writing, were reviewed and approved by the Board in December 2015 and are available on the Companys website.
CHAIRMAN Leads the Board Responsible for setting the tone and agenda Ensures the effectiveness of the Board Ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information Ensures effective communication with Shareholders Promotes a culture of openness and debate Acts on the results of the Board performance evaluation and leads on the implementation of any required changes Proposes new Directors and accepts resignation of Directors Holds periodic meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the Executivespresent 68 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Responsibe for running the Company Direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis Accountable to the Board for its operational and financial performance Primary responsibility for implementing the Companys strategy, including ensuring the achievement of the Groups budget and optimising the Groupsresources Primary responsibility for managing the Groups risk profile, identifying and executing new business opportuinites, and for management development andremuneration GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Primary responsibility for raising the finance required to fund the Groups strategy Primary responsibility for servicing the Groups financing and maintaining compliance with its covenants Responsible for maintaining a financial control environment capable of delivering robust financial reporting information, to indicate the Groups financial position Leadership of the Finance functions across the Group Day-to-day responsibility for Finance, Tax, Treasury, Shared Services and Internal Audit Chairman role on key internal committees, such as the Risk Committee, the Treasury Committee and the Design Authority which is responsible for the approval of the Growth Acceleration Plan Investment programme SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Available to meet Shareholders on request Ensures that the Board is aware of any Shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communications Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and, if and when appropriate, serves asan intermediary for the other Directors NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy including: Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals andobjectives Monitoring the reporting of performance Satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information Ensuring that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust anddefensible Determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors Playing a primary role in succession planning, appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors Meet without the Executive Directors present Attend meetings with major Shareholders to discuss governance and strategy COMPANY SECRETARY Responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governancematters All Directors have access to the Company Secretarys advice and services KEY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards approval is reviewed annually and was last reviewed in December 2015.
Specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include, but are not limited to: responsibility for the overall management of the Group: approving the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: approving the Groups annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects: reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and riskmanagement: reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies of the Group: approving appointments to, and removals from, the Board and of the Company Secretary: approving policies relating to Directors remuneration: and reviewing the dividend policy and determining the amounts of dividends.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED The Board has delegated the following activities to the Executive Directors: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term  established by the Board: implementing the Groups strategies and policies as determined by the Board: monitoring operational and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the performance of acquisitions and investments against plans and objectives: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available at www.
BOARD ACTIVITY IN 2015 AND PRIORITIES FOR 2016 BOARD ACTIVITY IN 2015 The Board held seven meetings during 2015, during which a range of strategic, financial, operational and governance matters werediscussed and debated.
Specific topics covered include: Strategy Reviewed and discussed Group Strategy Reviewed and discussed the Growth Acceleration Plan Reviewed, discussed and approved Group acquisitions and disposals Financial Reviewed and approved the Groups full year and half-yearly results and associated announcements Reviewed and challenged the Divisional trading results Reviewed and approved the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Shareholder relations Received and discussed feedback from Investor Day and roadshows presentations to major Shareholders Governance Reviewed and discussed the Groups risk profile and principal risks Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems Carried out and reviewed the results of the internal Board and Committee evaluation Reviewed and discussed Board composition on the recommendations of the Nomination Committee Reviewed and approved the Committees terms of reference, roles of Chairman, CEO, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors Discussed and approved shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors Discussed changes in corporate governance affecting the Group Information Technology Reviewed and discussed Group Information Technology Culture, values and employees Discussed succession planning Discussed Group Branding, culture and values 70 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS BOARD PRIORITIES FOR 2016 On joining the Board, Stephen Davidson and David Flaschen In 2016, the Board will continue to oversee the delivery of the received detailed information about the Group and attended Growth Acceleration Plan as it enters its third year, and the presentations from each member of the Executive performance of Informas Divisions and the Group as a whole, Management Team and the Divisional Leadership Teams.
as well as reviewing, discussing and approving matters including: Inaddition, they were given the opportunity to meet with Group strategy: theexternal and internal auditors and to visit the Groups the Growth Acceleration Plan: Divisional offices.
Group acquisitions and disposals: the Groups full year and half-yearly results, divisional trading The Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business andAnnual Report and Financial Statements: andthe environment in which itoperates by written briefings Group culture and values: andby meetings with Senior Executives, who are invited to the Groups risk profile, principal risks, risk management and attend and present at Board meetings from time to time.
They internal control systems: and arealso updated on any changes to the legal and governance succession planning of the Board, its Committees and requirements of the Groupand those which affect their duties SeniorManagers.
They areable to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to ensure that theyare kept up to date on relevant DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE new legislation and changing commercial risks.
The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a They bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
experience to the Boards deliberations and have been selected These papers are supplemented by any information specifically for their calibre and number to ensure their views carry significant requested by the Directors.
weight in the Boards decision-making process.
The Board Non-Executive Directors receive management reports prior to considers allof its Non-Executive Directors to be independent each Board meeting from the Group Chief Executive and the in character and judgement.
Group Finance Director which enable them to scrutinise the There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to obtain Groups and managements performance.
independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, should PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD they consider it necessary to carry out their responsibilities.
The AND ITS COMMITTEES Directors contracts are available for inspection attheregistered Informas Directors are made aware from their appointments office during normal business hours and will be available for that their performance will be subject to evaluation.
The Board has a formal and rigorous process for evaluating the INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT performance of its principal Committees and individual Directors On appointment, the Directors receive a formal induction to the on an annual basis.
This process is led by the Chairman.
The Group and its position in the broader Knowledge and Information Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, Economy.
This is designed to enable them to understand the meet at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Divisions andthe markets they operate in, so they can be effective Board Members from the outset.
This includes receiving A full and extensive external Board evaluation was carried out information about the Group, the role of theBoard and the at the end of 2014 following significant changes to the Board matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and composition during that year.
This review was carried out by Membership of the principal Board Committees, the Groups Independent Board Review, a division of Independent Audit corporate governance policies and procedures andthe latest Limited.
Independent Audit Limited has no other connection financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented with the Company.
The evaluation was fully independent and byintroductory meetings with key divisional andGroup level concluded that overall, the Board was making clear progress Senior Executives who provide detailed information about the and becoming increasingly effective following its restructure.
Company, the relevant markets, the Divisions and their trading.
Certain key areas were identified as having scope for further Onappointment and from time to time, Directors are reminded development, although it was acknowledged that most of oftheir legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of these areas had already been identified by Informa for further alisted company.
The Chairman reviews the Directors training consideration.
The Board monitored the progress of these areas and development needs.
The next external Board evaluation will be carried out within two years, in compliance with the Code.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED RE-ELECTION INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Articles of Association the Articles provide for all Directors The Board is responsible for Informas system of internal to be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The performance controls and reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed evaluation of the Board concluded that each Director remains to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve effective and committed totheir role.
In addition, as a result business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable rather than of the evaluation, the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, a Director remains independent.
All Directors will stand for concept that recognises that the cost of control procedures re-election at the 2016 AGM except forStephen Davidson and should not exceed its expected benefits.
David Flaschen, who will stand for election for the first time, and Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group John Davis, who will step down as Non-Executive Director after restswith the Group Chief Executive, supported by the serving 10 years on the Board.
The EMT includes the DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES CEO of each of the four Divisions and met weekly by call and The Company has agreed toindemnify the Directors, to the monthly in person in 2015 to consider the implementation of extent permitted by English lawand the Articles, in respect of Group strategies, plans and policies, to monitor operational anyliability arising out of, or inconnection with, the execution andfinancial performance and to manage risks.
Each Division oftheir powers, duties and responsibilities.
This relates to their isgiven operational autonomy, as far as possible, within an roles as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or as internal control framework.
The Strategic Report on pages aTrustee of an occupational pension scheme for employees of 2to60 details the activities of the Operating Divisions.
The indemnity would not provide coverage where The Board has a risk management process for identifying, the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Information on appointments to the Board in 2015 can be found This process was strengthened and enhanced in 2015 and was in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 74 and 75.
The in place throughout the year, up to the date of approval of the Company has purchased and maintains Directors and Officers Annual Report and Financial Statements, and is in accordance insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
claims in connection with any act or omission by its Directors and officers in the execution of their duties.
Informa has a number of internal control and risk management systems and procedures around financial reporting, including: DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Articles include provisions covering Directors conflicts of Business planning all Operating Divisions produce and agree interest.
They allow the Board to authorise any matter that would an annual business plan against which the performance of the otherwise involve a Director breaching his or her duty to avoid business is regularly monitored.
This function and process conflicts of interest.
The Company has procedures in place to strengthened in 2015. deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest.
Financial analysis each Divisions operating profitability and Aspart of this process, the Board will endeavour to: capital expenditure are closely monitored.
Management incentives are tied to financial results.
These results include consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: explanations of variance between forecast and budgeted consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the Articles: performance, and are reviewed in detail by Executive keep records and Board minutes on authorisations granted Management on a monthly basis.
Key financial information byDirectors and the scope of any approvals given: and isregularly reported to the Board.
Group Authority Framework the framework provides clear In 2015, none of the Directors had any unauthorised conflicts of guidelines on approval limits for capital and operating interests.
The Board acknowledges that Dr Brendan ONeill is a expenditure and other key business decisions for all Divisions.
Non-Executive Director of Willis Towers Watson Inc. and Willis Risk assessment risk assessment is embedded into the Towers Watson is an adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
operations of the Group and is reported upon to the EMT, Risk Italso acknowledges that Stephen A. Carters brother is Vice Committee, AuditCommittee and the Board.
The Risk Chairman of KPMG LLP, the Companys internal auditors, and Management Framework, governance and reporting structures Stephen Davidson is Deputy Chairman of Jaywing.
Jaywing is a are explained in the risk report on pages 20 to 25. consultancy firm involved in the Companys Growth Acceleration Plan projects taking place within the Companys Business Intelligence Division.
This potential conflict was in place prior to Stephen Davidsons appointment to the Board on 1 September 2015 and was noted by the Board.
72 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal control arrangements.
The Audit Committee has been charged by the Board with oversight of the above controls and has considered the following factors indetermining the overall effectiveness of the Groups risks and associated control environment: The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Audit Committee, reports on the effectiveness of risk management, governance and compliance activity within the Group.
Through this process the Group has identified nine principal risks, which are discussed on pages 22 to25.
The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work to be undertaken by the Groups nominated external auditor during theperiod and receives reports on any issues identified in thecourse of its work, including internal control reports oncontrol weaknesses.
Any identified issues are reported tothe Audit Committee and are tracked until conclusion.
The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work to be undertaken by the Groups Internal Audit Team during the period.
Itreceives reports on any issues identified around theGroups business processes and control activities over theGroups key risk areas, including following up on the implementation of management action plans to address any identified control weaknesses, and reporting any overdue actions to the Audit Committee.
KPMG LLP is engaged to provide the Group with Internal Audit services and acts as Head of Internal Audit.
Separate reports from the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees can be found on pages 74 to 90.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by RUPERT HOPLEY COMPANY SECRETARY 10 February 2016 73 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
