GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT BOARD COMPOSITION % Executive Directors 20% Independent Non-Executive Directors 80% 10 OBJECTIVE GENDER % To ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent Male procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the 80% Board and its Committees.
Female MEMBERSHIP 20% The Membership of the Nomination Committee Committee, Member dates and attendance during 2015 are set out below: 10 Attendance Committee during Member 2015 of 3 Members since meetings Derek Mapp 10 March 2008 3 Chairman of the Committee Dr Brendan ONeill 1 January 2015 3 DUTIES The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and approvedby the Board in December 2015, and are available Stephen A. Carter 1 January 2015 3 onthe Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities include: Gareth Bullock 24 July 2014 3 reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, Cindy Rose 24 July 2014 3 giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and Senior Executives for the skills and experience needed onthe Board in the future: TENURE OF THE BOARD AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 identifying, and nominating for Board approval, candidates tofill Board vacancies as and when theyarise: 01 year Stephen Davidson 1 evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, David Flaschen 1 experience and diversity of the Boardprior to any appointment to the Board: 12 years keeping the Groups Executive and Non-Executive leadership Gareth Wright 1.5 Gareth Bullock 2 needs under review: 37 years Helen Owers 2 reviewing the results of theBoard performance evaluation process that relate to the composition oftheBoard: and 25 years Stephen A. Carter CEO 2.5 reviewing the time required from Non-Executive Cindy Rose 3 Directorsannually.
59 years Derek Mapp Chairman 7 Dr Brendan ONeill 7 10 years John Davis 10 John Davis will step down from the Board at the AGM on 19 May 2016.
74 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR BOARD AND COLLEAGUE DIVERSITY The Committee met three times in 2015 to address changes to Informa believes that embracing diversity in its many forms Board and Committee composition.
Following the resignation of creates competitive advantage.
Informa is a people-led Geoff Cooper as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the knowledge business: its differentiation and performance are a Remuneration Committee, the Company worked with search direct result of recruiting and retaining exceptional individuals.
agency Odgers Berndtson to find a replacement Non-Executive The Groups approach to diversity is broad and deep.
The Committee also worked with Russell Reynolds but is not limited to gender, ethnicity, professional experience, Associates to conduct a search for a US-based Director.
On educational background, nationality and age.
1 September 2015, Stephen Davidson and David Flaschen were appointed to the Board.
Stephen Davidson was also appointed The Group has also established a Diversity and Inclusion working as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on this date, and group.
The working group is the direct initiative of a crossDavid Flaschen became a Member of the Audit Committee Company team and was created under the Group Chief on1October 2015.
The Committee also discussed and Executives sponsorship.
It reports to the Director of Talent & appointed Gareth Bullock to act as the interim Chairman Transformation, and has regular discussions with the Chief oftheRemuneration Committee between 30 March and Executive and the Divisional Management teams to develop 1September 2015.
He stepped down as a Member of the practical approaches to supporting diversity that challenge Remuneration Committee on 10 November 2015. accepted wisdoms, and to stimulate new approaches to recruitment and career development.
John Davis has now served more than nine years on the Board, having been elected at the 2006 AGM.
While he was re-elected In 2016 there will be a heightened focus on relevant data as a Director at the 2015 AGM, he willstand down from the gathering and analysis, the introduction of supportive GroupBoard at the 2016 AGM.
He also stooddown from the widerecruitment practices, training for Senior Managers, Nomination Committee with effect from 31December 2014, increased communication on the importance of inclusion withDr Brendan ONeill joining the Committee with effect from andspecific mentoring activities to help groups of colleagues 1January 2015. network with each other, helping the Company help everyone fulfil their potential.
The Committee also reviewed its terms of reference and discussed the composition and the mix of skills, knowledge, A breakdown of Informas global workforce can be found in independence, experience and diversity of the Board.
It also theSustainability Report on page 29.
In terms of diversity by reviewed the ability of the Non-Executive Directors to devote gender within the Group in 2015, 59% of all colleagues, 39% such time as is necessary to properly perform their duties ofour group of around 130 leaders and future leaders, and 20% andthe Committee was satisifed that the existing and newly of Non-Executive Directors were female.
Furthermore, nearly appointed Non-Executive Directors were able to do so.
60% of those recruited to the Group during the year were femaleand over 70% of 2015 new joiners were born after 1980.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SEARCHES The Groups approach to people and diversity is equally reflected The Committee uses the services of specialist Executive search at Board level.
The Boards composition and size are kept under consultants to seek suitable external candidates for appointment constant review, to ensure that the independent Non-Executive to the Boardand its Committees.
The Committee identifies the Directors have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, specific experience and skills that the Company is looking for and diversity and knowledge of the Group and the market it operates works with those search consultants to identify candidates who in, and that the Board has the right combination of talent.
External candidates, together with any ACTION PLAN FOR 2016 internal candidates, are interviewed by the Committee and the Continue to review succession planning for the Board successful candidate is proposed by the Committee to the Board andforkey roles Group-wide for approval.
During the year the Committee was supported by Identify future talent pipeline and support greater diversity Odgers Berndtson and Russell Reynolds Associates in the amongst Senior Managers and the broader workforce search for two Non-Executive Directors.
Both firms are entirely as well as inclusion activities independent of the Company.
Develop initiatives for Directors Provide Group-wide exposure for Non-Executive Directors Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by DEREK MAPP CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 10 February 2016 75 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
