58 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The scale of investment and transformation of the Company over the last few years has necessitated us to look at our culture and behaviours to ensure we take the best from all the businesses weve acquired over the years and implement these across our global workforce.
Our values and behaviours are part of the framework which support how we work with partners and between employees.
We act with integrity and we see this within our Board discussions, and how this cascades down through the business from the Executive Management Board.
We are very proud of Inmarsats brand and are focused on protecting its integrity for the future.
As Chairman I am able to call on a broad and diverse range of skills and experience from all my Directors: the blend of experience, nationalities and range of cultural experience within the Board is valuable to us as we fulfil our ANDREWSUKAWATY duties to manage the business.
Succession planning for the Non-Executive CHAIRMAN Directors remains a key focus for the Nominations Committee and the Board as we plan for the retirement of our original Directors who joined the Board in 2005.
To support this transition, Stephen Davidson will retire before the 2017  AGM and we will continue to review future Non-Executive Director succession Your Board manages the Inmarsat business in a transparent, open and honest planning annually going forwards.
We achieve this by maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all our We hope the information in this Report will help you to understand how your activities: for delivering our strategy and financial performance in the Board runs the Company, manages risks, monitors internal controls, and how long-term interests of the Company, for efficiently using our resources and decisions have been made.
having regard to social, environmental and ethical matters.
ANDREWSUKAWATY The Board approves the Groups governance framework with the Board Chairman Committees contributing their specialist focus to key areas such as 3 March 2016 remuneration policy, internal controls and risk management.
Our governance framework includes the changes introduced by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Amendment Regulations 2013 LEADERSHIP the Regulations.
We comply with the Code with one exception that I, as THEBOARD Chairman, was not considered independent on appointment because I was previously an executive director.
However we have a strong Senior Independent  Director, Dr Abe Peled, who provides additional independence to respond to any The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
This independence was previously provided by John The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year, complied Rennocks who also had the title of Deputy Chairman whilst I held an with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code save as noted below.
During 2015, Andrew Sukawaty was Chairman.
He did not meet the During 2015 there were changes in Board membership which Ive summarised in independence criteria on appointment as he had previously been an Executive my opening Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 and also note later in this Director.
Although the Code recommends that the Chairman is independent on Report.
With changes in chairmanship of three of our Committees during 2015, appointment, the Board unanimously believes that his wide experience means and the establishment of a new Committee, called the Telecoms Regulatory that he remains extremely well qualified to lead the Company as its Chairman Committee which focuses on this critical area of our business operations, the and has the skills and experience to ensure that the Board continues to Board unanimously believes that discussion and debate has continued to be at a function effectively.
The recently appointed Senior Independent Director, high standard and the three new Chairmen have adapted well in taking on their Dr Abe Peled, who took over the role from John Rennocks upon his retirement in additional responsibilities.
November 2015, plays a key role within the Company on any matters which may be raised of a governance nature.
We also include a statement made by the Directors, on page 93, that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and HOWTHEBOARDOPERATES understandable.
The processes including financial controls and reporting, and To ensure effective corporate governance, your Board has structured its risk management, which underpin and support our confidence in making this governance framework as set out on the next page.
statement are long-established and embedded into our business.
In addition our Internal Audit Department reviewed the narrative sections of the Annual The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its authority and Report.
In line with its terms of reference, a subset of the Disclosure Committee in 2015 created an additional Committee the Telecoms Regulatory also reviews the Annual Report to ensure it contains all necessary disclosures Committee.
The permanent Committees of the Board are therefore the Audit, to fairly present the Companys and the Groups financial condition and results Remuneration, Nominations and Telecoms Regulatory Committees.
Our external auditors review the narrative sections of the Annual Committee has Terms of Reference under which authority is delegated by the Report to identify any material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
A copy can be found on our website at www.
Reports of Our Board members receive drafts of the Annual Report in sufficient time to the Committees can be found on pages 64 to 92. facilitate their review and input.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 BOARDCOMMITTEES CHAIRMAN ANDREW SUKAWATY Key objectives: Leadership, operation and governance of the Board Setting the agenda for the Board INMARSATPLCBOARD 12 DIRECTORS: TWO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, THE CHAIRMAN AND NINE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Key objectives: Responsible for the overall conduct of the business: setting strategy AUDITCOMMITTEE REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS TELECOMS CHIEFEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE REGULATORY RUPERT PEARCE CHAIRMAN: COMMITTEE ROBERT RUIJTER CHAIRMAN: CHAIRMAN: SIMON BAX DR ABRAHAM PELED CHAIRMAN: 4 INDEPENDENT ANDREW SUKAWATY NON-EXECUTIVE 5 INDEPENDENT 3 INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE 3 INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS DIRECTORS AND A NON-EXECUTIVE NON-INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS AND A MEMBER NON-INDEPENDENT CHAIRMAN Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight of key Management of review of financial review of review of Board regulatory the business and operational remuneration, and senior challenges Implementation of risk management, bonus and share management strategy and policy audit and internal plan issues appointments control issues and succession planning Read more on page 68 Read more on page 73 Read more on page 64 Read more on page 67  CHAIRMAN:RUPERT PEARCE 13 MEMBERS MADE UP OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, BUSINESS UNIT PRESIDENTS, GROUP FUNCTION HEADS Key objectives: To focus on strategy, financial performance, succession planning, business growth, organisational development and support of Group-wide policies 60 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ROLEOFTHEBOARD  Our Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Inmarsat Groups the ITEMSDISCUSSED: Group business.
It is the primary decision-making body for all material matters affecting the Group.
It provides leadership and guidance, and sets our strategic Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 direction.
Review and approval of preliminary results Our Board is ultimately accountable to the shareholders for: the performance and proper conduct of the business: Review and approval of full year dividend being responsible for the long-term success of the Company, having regard for the interests of all stakeholders: and Risk review being responsible for ensuring the effectiveness and reporting on our system of corporate governance.
CEO commentary against business priorities Responsibility for implementing strategy within the Groups operations and for CFO financial review day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer who, as part of the Executive Management Board, cascades this responsibility through the Group.
The CEO is empowered by the Board to Business Unit and Central Services presentations handle all business activities up to a designated level of authorisation and to covering financial results and operational activity report to the Board for guidance, support and approval on other matters which require Board input.
A list of the members of the Executive Board is provided on Regular competition and strategy overview page 9.
Health and Safety update A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision or consideration by the Board as a whole has been agreed by the Directors.
This schedule covers Annual review of Bribery Act compliance areas such as: the Groups business strategy and long-term plans: Board evaluation output and recommendations major capital projects: investments: and Review and approval of first quarter results acquisitions and divestments.
Cyber security presentations The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed formally at Board meetings and adapted regularly to ensure all matters Two-day strategy discussion reserved to the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed.
There is an established procedure for the review of the agenda between the Chairman, Executive Directors and Company Secretary in advance of each Board Review of forward agenda items meeting.
At each Board meeting there is a detailed report on current trading from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and detailed papers are Review and approval of half year results provided on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give approval.
Where appropriate, specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Interim dividend approval Committees or to committees convened for special purposes.
Deep dive risk review Review and approval of long range business plan Two-day Board meeting held in Washington DC Regulatory strategy update Review and approval of Q3 results Annual review of conflicts of interest register Preparation for Board evaluation Annual treasury policy approval Approve following years budget Annual detailed report on the performance of the satellite constellations STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61   The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors ensures that they can provide a strong independent element on the Board, debate, and constructively challenge management both in relation to the THECHAIRMAN development of strategy and review of the Groups operational and AndrewSukawaty financial performance.
The role of the Chairman is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
He is responsible for: To determine their independence, all Non-Executive Directors are reviewed effective leadership, operation and governance of the Board: by the Nominations Committee annually against any circumstances relevant ensuring the effectiveness of the Board: to their current or ongoing independence as set out in the Code and setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions: and recommendations are made to the Board.
Following such review, the Board ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent and free of any information.
circumstances that could materially interfere with their ability to provide a strong and valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations, or which could interfere with the individual Directors ability to also act in the best interests  of the Group.
The Nominations Committee additionally considers the RupertPearce independence carefully once a Non-Executive Director has served for nine The role of the Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by years or more to assess whether their contribution to the Board remains the Board.
He is responsible for: valuable and valid to support the Companys strategic objectives.
the day-to-day managing of Inmarsats operations and its financial results:  recommending the strategic objectives for the Inmarsat Group, The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Management Board which meets on for debate, challenge and approval by the Board: a weekly basis.
As part of its remit, this team focuses on the Groups strategy, responsibility for ensuring we meet the milestones for our key financial reviews and long range business planning, the competitive landscape, programmes with a priority to target revenue growth and operational updates from all areas of the business, risk review, learning and deliver enhanced returns to shareholders: and development and organisational development.
2016 will see a focus on a chairing the Executive Management Board.
change management programme covering enhancements in processes and systems, and a review of operational structure to better support our staff and Mr Pearce is the Board sponsor for environmental and social our partners.
The Executive Management Board includes the Executive governance, community investment, and other corporate social Directors, the Business Unit Presidents and the key functional heads.
names of the Executive Management team are shown on page 9.
 Our Board meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its business.
 During 2015, the Board met eight times, with one of those meetings being held DrAbePeled over two days in Washington DC.
During 2015 there was an additional overseas The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: Board meeting held at our Palm Bay office in Florida and in 2016 we will have acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: our two-day strategy event at our office in lesund, Norway.
These meetings serving as an intermediary for the other Directors: in local offices provide the Board with exposure to our staff and business reviewing the Chairmans performance with the Nonoperations outside the London headquarters.
Key management are invited Executive Directors: to attend all Board meetings to present on specific business issues which will being available to discuss issues or concerns from our include an operations update for each of the Business Units and central shareholders where they have been unable to resolve them services divisions, covering commercial, technology and operational matters.
through existing channels for investor communications: and Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take place as and when necessary.
convening regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors.
In instances where a Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, any comments which he or she may have arising out of the papers to be considered at the meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the THECOMPANYSECRETARY Company Secretary who would then report to the Board or Committee thereon.
AlisonHorrocks The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its The use of the electronic portal for the Directors to access Board and Committees and in doing so she: Committee papers has proved very effective.
At each meeting, the Chief assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer provide reports to the Board and timely access to all relevant information: several senior executives, by invitation, present updates on strategy and focus assists the Chairman by organising induction and on specific parts the Groups operations.
This way the Board is given exposure training programmes: to the next layer of management at the Executive Board level and often from assists the Chairman with the annual Board their direct reports.
This is helpful to the Board as it supplements the evaluation procedure: discussions it has regarding planning for management succession.
All is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures Committee Chairmen report verbally on the proceedings of their Committees are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance at the next Board meeting.
Meeting proceedings and any unresolved concerns matters: and expressed by any Director are minuted by the Company Secretary.
administers the procedure under which Directors can, where appropriate, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense no requests for external professional advice were received during the year.
62 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Non-Executive Directors meet annually and on an ad-hoc basis, without the  Chairman and other Executive Directors in attendance, to assess the Chairmans ATTENDANCEIN2015 performance, discuss Board balance, monitor the powers of individual Executive Directors and raise any issues between themselves as appropriate.
Percentage Meetings attendance As part of its regular Board meeting schedule, the Board also holds a two-day Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 8 8 100% strategy meeting each year at which it considers the future direction of the Rupert Pearce 8 8 100% business.
Strategy sessions are attended by several senior executives who present on specific agenda items.
Elements of the business strategy are Tony Bates 8 8 100% reviewed regularly at Board meetings.
Simon Bax 8 8 100% Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 8 100%  Stephen Davidson 8 8 100% Directors and Officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors Kathleen Flaherty 8 8 100% and Officers to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 8 8 100% Company.
In accordance with our Articles of Association and to the extent Dr Abraham Peled 8 8 100% permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors, the Company Secretary and certain employees who serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Groups Janice Obuchowski 8 8 100% 1 request have been granted indemnities from the Company in respect of Robert Ruijter 7 7 100% liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Neither our indemnity nor the 2 Dr Hamadoun Tour 7 7 100% insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to have acted 3 John Rennocks 7 7 100% dishonestly or fraudulently.
No amount has been paid under any of these indemnities during the year.
The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of interest and is aware of any potential conflict through an annual review of the other commitments of its Directors.
We are satisfied these commitments do not  conflict with their duties as Directors of Inmarsat.
During the year, where there An overview of the Groups framework for identifying and managing risk, both at were agenda items being raised for discussion which could have the perception an operational and strategic level, is set out on pages 48 and 51 in the Strategic of a conflict of interest for the individual Director, these were discussed at the Report.
The Board has responsibility for managing risk and although the Audit relevant Board meeting and agreed in each case there were no conflicts of Committee has responsibility for the risk management process it does not interest identified.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions to delegate overall responsibility for risk to either the Audit Committee or allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest so that a Director management.
As noted in the detailed risk report in the Strategic Report, the is not in breach of his her duty under company law.
As noted above, and Board has asked for a review of the risk process system to focus on key happened in practice, should a Director become aware that they have an significant risks and updates on mitigating activities.
interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or proposed transaction with the Company, they are required to notify this to the Company Secretary.
Directors The Board have annual updates on the Companys policies for compliance have a continuing duty to notify any changes to their conflicts of interest to the with the UK Bribery Act, and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA Company Secretary and any changes are noted in the conflicts register.
requirements and health and safety.
As part of our commitment to preventing bribery and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever  and in whatever form it may be encountered, we have a formal Board-approved The attendance of the Directors at the Board meetings held in 2015 is shown in anti-corruption policy and a summary of the anti-bribery policy is included on the next table.
Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Tour joined the Board on our website.
We have appropriate procedures in place, in line with guidance 1 February and 1 March 2015 respectively.
Attendance at Committee meetings provided by the Ministry of Justice to ensure compliance with current is shown in the relevant Committee reports.
An independently managed, confidential whistleblowing helpline email and telephone is available to employees to use and there was only one enquiry phone call made to it during 2015.
The Company recognises the importance of electronic information, systems and network security cyber security.
We are increasingly required to be compliant with, or align to, various legal, contractual and regulatory standards and codes of practice relative to information security governance and the preservation of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of customer or internal data and services.
This is part of a broader programme supported by a dedicated cyber security team whose primary role is to safeguard the Company to meet its legal and regulatory obligations, maintain business continuity and limit damage to business interests by preventing and reducing the occurrence of security incidents and their impact upon business operations.
In addition, the Company has been steadily increasing its investments on cyber, not only in terms of leadership resources and additional skills but also in terms of considering opportunities to influence upcoming cyber standards in its core markets and exploring options to offer cyber-as-a-service to some of its key customer communities.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 INTERNALCONTROLS Financialreporting:monthly management accounts provide relevant, The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and maintaining the reliable and up-to-date financial and non-financial information to Groups system of internal controls and it receives regular reports from management and the Board.
Analysis is undertaken of differences between management identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within the actual results and the annual budget on a monthly basis.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than forecasts, performance targets and long range financial plans allow eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only management to monitor the key business and financial activities, and the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
progress towards achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget is The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports approved by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a received from management, along with those from both internal and external standardised reporting process, and in addition, also reports on a auditors.
Management continues to focus on how internal control and risk quarterly basis.
management can be further embedded into the operations of the business and Informationsystems: information systems are developed to support the to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and the Groups long-term objectives and are managed by professionally staffed Boards attention.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in place covering all significant areas of the business.
The Company has an established Disclosure Committee with responsibility for : there are clearly defined policies and reviewing and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
These include financial and related information and other procedures necessary to enable detailed requirements that must be completed prior to submitting proposals the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to provide and or tenders for work, both in respect of the commercial, control and risk their certifications in relation to publicly disclosed information.
The Disclosure management aspects of the obligations being entered into.
New business Committee comprises the Chairman, both Executive Directors, Company plan approval processes and a new procurement process have been Secretary and other senior executives.
introduced which will further strengthen the review of contractual commitments before any such commitment is agreed to.
The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review of the Monitoringofcontrols:the Audit Committee receives regular reports from effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year ended the internal and external auditors and assures itself that the internal control 31 December 2015 and for the period up to the date of approval of the environment of the Group is operating effectively.
There are formal policies consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Report.
The review and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance accounting records and to safeguard the Groups assets.
Significant capital controls and risk management systems.
The Board confirms that the actions it projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
There are considers necessary have been, or are being taken to remedy any significant formal procedures by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about failings or weaknesses identified from its review of the system of internal possible improprieties in financial and pensions administration and other control.
This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing matters often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
A new worldwide plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
anonymous whistleblowing programme was introduced in 2014 and has The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in continued in operation during the year with monthly reports issued by the the part of the internal control system that relates to financial reporting.
external provider to the Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit.
Arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, which have been in and appropriate follow-up action with the results being reported to the place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this Report, include: Audit Committee.
Riskmanagement:an overarching risk management policy is in place which  sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group and how this is measured Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors remuneration are across identified macro and business risks.
As required by the policy, contained in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 73 to 92. management operates a risk management process to identify, evaluate and report significant risks within the business and to report to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by Risk Committees across the Group, which identify the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
All the risk registers are reviewed by senior management and provided quarterly to the Board and to the Audit Committee.
Details of the risk process and key risks are shown on pages 48 to 51 in the Strategic Report.
Managementstructure:there is a clearly defined organisational structure throughout the Group with established lines of reporting and delegation of authority based on job responsibilities and experience.
Within the business, senior management meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
A process of self-certification is used where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation to mitigate risk in key process areas.
They also confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes are in place and are operating effectively.
64 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of independent, NonEFFECTIVENESS Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee meets as and when  necessary, generally at least once a year.
The Chairmanship moved from Andrew Sukawaty to Dr Abe Peled in November 2015 as it was determined it would be more appropriate for an independent Director to chair this Committee.
Dr Abe Peled had previously been a member of the Committee.
Andrew Sukawaty remains a member of the Committee and the others are Stephen Davidson and Dr Hamadoun Tour.
John Rennocks participated in meetings up until his retirement in November 2015.
During 2015 the Committee met twice.
The Committee has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board, bearing in mind the need for diversity including gender consideration, and ensuring a broad representation of skills across the Board.
In doing this, the Committee will give full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Company.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Boards Committees DRABRAHAMPELED and will review and make recommendations in relation to the structure, size CHAIRMAN, NOMINATIONSCOMMITTEE and composition of the Board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including the tenure of each Director.
I am delighted to become Chairman of this Committee.
We continue to contribute our time The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to the Board concerning the annual reappointment by shareholders of any Non-Executive and experience to enable good decision making Director as he or she reaches their sixth year of reappointment and separately with a view to assessing their continuing independence thereafter, particularly by the Committee to support the business.
when Directors are seeking to be reappointed after serving nine years.
The Committee also has responsibility for approving any changes to Executive Directors including senior management appointments.
All currently appointed 2015KEYACHIEVEMENTS Directors will retire at the 2016 AGM and offer themselves for reappointment, or offer themselves for appointment as appropriate.
As noted earlier in the We supported the appointment of two additional talented Corporate governance report, the Committee has agreed that it was Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board in 2015 appropriate that although some Directors had exceeded their original term of office, they remain independent in their contribution, and should be invited to serve for a longer period and therefore the three longest-serving Directors are We reviewed the independence of our longer-serving Directors and considered independent.
determined they continue to demonstrate the right qualities of independence and judgement COMPOSITION Our Board comprises Directors drawn from a wide range of professional We reviewed the senior management succession plan, and considered backgrounds.
All our Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards the talent available below the Executive Management Board level deliberations.
The Non-Executive Directors we appointed in 2014 and 2015 have all contributed very effectively to Board discussions and have demonstrated their increasing knowledge of how the Company operates and its business.
We took the decision to appoint these additional Directors while MEMBERSIN2015 Scheduled meetings attended retaining the expertise of existing Directors thus enabling us to have an orderly retirement process of longer serving Board Directors over the coming years.
In 2014 we appointed Retired General C. Robert Kehler and in 2015 we appointed Dr Abraham Peled Chairman Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Tour: John Rennocks retired in November 2015.
At the beginning of 2015, Andrew Sukawaty also became Non-Executive Stephen Davidson Chairman.
Tony Bates joined us as our Chief Financial Officer in June 2014 and he has received strong endorsement from the full Board for his performance.
Andrew Sukawaty As at 3 March 2016, the composition of the Board is two Executive Directors, nine Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman.
With the Dr Hamadoun Tour exception of Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Tour, all Directors served throughout the year.
The names of the Directors on our Board, their relevant skills and experience are set out in their biographical details and can be found John Rennocks on pages 52 to 54.
AREAOFFOCUSFOR2015 An area of focus for the Committee has been Non-Executive Director succession planning.
We purposefully increased the size of the Board starting in 2014 to allow time for new Directors to come up to speed on our business activities and ambitions before longer-serving Directors retired.
We have found this has worked very well and the new Directors have brought an additional skill-set and breadth of experience to Board discussions.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 The composition of the Board and its various Committees is regularly reviewed The Committee, when reviewing succession planning, considers diversity in its and evaluated so as to reflect the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity of broadest sense and takes this into account in its recommendations to the which gender is one component, experience and the ability of Directors to Board.
It takes into account the challenges and opportunities facing the provide sufficient time to fulfil their Board responsibilities.
Company: diversity, including gender: and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board and from senior management in the future.
Gender is one At the 2016 AGM, several of our Directors will have served for nine years, or element of the considerations made in appointing senior management and longer.
Stephen Davidson will retire ahead of the 2017 AGM so that we continue Board members and as part of general recruitment practices across the Group.
the transition of Directors on the Board which started in 2014.
We will ensure an The Committee has not set quotas for the percentage of women in the orderly succession of our longer serving Directors which will be reviewed workforce but is supportive of the need generally to encourage diversity when annually by the Nominations Committee.
For the 2016 AGM, the Nominations employees and Directors Executive and Non-Executive are recruited.
The Committee has considered the matter carefully and believes that the longer Committee gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its service Directors continue to demonstrate the qualities of independence and work and receives updated management succession plans which look at judgement in carrying out their roles.
This independence is observed at Board succession planning for the Executive Management Board and identifies the meetings in the way the Directors constructively challenge management and next layer of management below them who are identified as those with approach meetings fully briefed and are fully engaged in the discussion.
The potential for promotion to senior management positions.
This document is Nominations Committee discusses their independence and considers that the updated at least annually to reflect changes in senior management.
longer serving Directors remain fully independent.
Their length of service, resulting experience and knowledge of the Company is of great benefit to the  Board.
The subject of their independence will be kept under review.
We expect To ensure that each Director receives appropriate support on joining the that our newer Non-Executive Directors will have been able to benefit from the Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction experience of our longer serving Directors through the phased retirement plans programme organised through the Company Secretary, including the provision we will be putting in place.
This confirmation of independence has been of background material on the Company and briefings with each of the supported by the Board as part of the recommendation for all Directors to Executive Management Board.
These meetings will ensure that the onstand for re-election.
The three longest-serving Directors Stephen Davidson boarding process for a new Director provides a view of each area of the and Sir Bryan Carsberg and Kathleen Flaherty will therefore all stand for business with the opportunity for further discussion as appropriate.
Each re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Directors individual experience and background is taken into account in developing a programme tailored to his or her own requirements.
The induction SUCCESSIONPLANNING programme was reviewed and updated in 2015 for Mr Ruijter and Dr Tour when Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and they joined the Company.
with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and For professional ongoing development, the Board receives presentations experience of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board.
relevant to the Companys business and updates on any changes in legislation which may affect the Companys operations.
The Company Secretary supplies In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to use a all Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice.
As part of combination of external recruitment consultants and personal referrals.
their annual performance evaluation, Directors are given the opportunity to The Non-Executive Directors who were appointed in 2015 were personal discuss training and development needs.
During 2015, the Directors received recommendations from a Director or a recommendation made to a Director.
external refresher training from the Companys corporate lawyers on the responsibilities of Directors in a listed company.
Whilst the Chairman takes In considering the skills required for new Non-Executive Directors, there was ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Directors training and development specific focus on seeking an individual who was a qualified financial expert.
needs, each Director is expected to ask about any specific training needs.
They Robert Ruijter had immense financial experience, plus his operational also take steps to ensure they are adequately informed about the Company experience was an excellent fit for coming onto the Board and becoming a and their responsibilities as a Director and attend external briefings and receive member, and subsequently Chairman, of the Audit Committee.
The Board is confident that its members have the Tour has deep experience within international organisations handling knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a regulatory issues and championing the cause of bringing broadband Director of a listed company.
communications to rural areas, particularly in Africa.
Additionally he has industry experience having previously worked as a satellite engineer.
BOARDEVALUATION Dr Hamadoun Tour is a member of the Nominations Committee and in 2015 In 2012 the Company undertook an external evaluation, facilitated by Duncan we created a separate Committee which focuses on regulatory activities where Reed of Condign Board Consulting.
The Chairman asked Mr Reed to undertake we will be able to draw on his considerable recent experience to assist our the second external review for 2015 in order to bring some consistency of awareness of regulatory affairs.
We had identified the desire to extend the mix knowledge of the Directors responses from the previous external evaluation, of Directors from a cultural point of view and Rob Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun and therefore to be able to make comparisons and assess progress.
Neither Tour provide the Board with diversity of nationality as well as skills and Mr Reed nor Condign Board Consulting have any other commercial previous experience.
As part of the recruitment process, the individuals relationships with Inmarsat.
generally met the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and the Company Secretary.
Other members One of the key areas of discussion concerned what may need to change for the of the Board were also given the opportunity to meet them.
Board in its role, the way it spends its time and organises itself to maximise the chances of implementing the evolving strategy and delivering performance.
66 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED A summary of the findings from Mr Reed, also reflecting some of his views about Greater visibility as to customer satisfaction and how it is measured: This what he found, is extracted from the Report and noted below: remains an ongoing exercise for management to undertake and provide an update to the Board.
A functional and effective Board of committed, experienced and perceptive Plan for a retirement cycle for longer serving Non-Executive Directors: This individuals.
Also an exceptionally diverse group, to an extent rare on all but has been a discussion item by the Nominations Committee and also was part the biggest company boards of the FTSE top 20. of the discussion from the 2015 external evaluation.
Since the last external evaluation, the Board has been augmented with persons of clear relevance to Inmarsats present and future shape, and who Some of the recommendations from the 2015 external evaluation are: are proving themselves equal to the requirements placed on them.
Striking and maintaining the right balance of challenge with support is one Improving the use of the Boards time which may involve splitting more of the most important tasks for any chairman and also for his colleagues.
This is a balance that is indeed being made here.
Ensuring that presentations to the Board include a comprehensive Placing decisions and discussions in their full environmental context is a executive summary.
good and established feature of this Boards modus operandi.
Equally, this Request for the risk register to be focused on key risks faced by the Company discipline could and should be extended more consistently to one area that and accountability for mitigating actions.
has been of greater contention, namely remuneration.
Ensuring that the Board receives early updates on proposals from Encouragingly, the Board is also consulted at a strategic level well before management on significant transactional issues to receive early support.
decisions are made by the Executive Management.
Sometimes, and to its A review at each meeting of upcoming items for the subsequent meetings.
credit, the Board has even prompted the executive team to proceed with projects which otherwise the executive team were unsure about, or may even  have chosen to leave alone.
The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive Directors accepting In summary, this is a Board that takes seriously its role both to oversee the Non-Executive Directorships of other companies in order to widen their skills control functions of the business and also to provide a framework of and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
All such appointments require entrepreneurial leadership as the Corporate Governance Code enjoins.
In the prior approval of the Board and the number of appointments is limited to this sense, the tone from the top has been impeccable as a sense of shared two.
Details of these directorships can be found in their biographies on pages purpose is evident even where roles and functions clearly differ.
52 to 54 and details of the fees paid to them can be found on page 83 of the Remuneration report.
The evaluation exercise also reviewed the work of the Committees and their own effectiveness.
Potential areas for future review were noted as follows:  The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year.
AuditCommittee: in relation to its risk function, to consider the output Directors appointed in this way will, upon the recommendation of the Board, offer of some realistic disaster scenarios reviewed by the Executive themselves for election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
The reappointment of Directors is subject to their ongoing commitment to Board NominationsCommittee: to discuss a detailed Board rotation and activities and satisfactory performance.
All Directors will stand for reappointment succession plan with the Chairman, to crystallise it, and to agree action annually in accordance with the provision of the Code.
The Nominations points: and to consider reviewing the management succession plan more Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors than once a year if there are senior management organisational changes.
offering themselves for reappointment at the 2016 AGM continues to benefit the :to consider providing a Masterclass on pay Board and the Company should support their reappointment.
Non-Executive construct and the people proposition for Committee members, and to Directors are appointed initially for three years and all Non-Executive Directors ensure that the full internal and external environmental context is given may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain in office for a period longer than six due consideration, including payout history, and the use of a sectoral years, or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter.
As already set out earlier in this Report on page 65, three of our Non-Executive During the year, the Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive Directors, Stephen Davidson, Kathleen Flaherty and Sir Bryan Carsberg are Directors and discussed the performance of the Chairman: and each of the being supported by the Board for re-appointment as independent NonDirectors commented as part of the evaluation exercise on the Chairmans Executive Directors even though they will have served for longer than performance.
The Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors on an nine years.
individual basis at least once a year.
Key elements arising from the 2014 Board evaluation review which were noted in last years Annual Report are shown below with an update as to what happened during the year: Additional focus on succession planning for Executive Directors and senior management: During 2015 there was additional focus on this topic with the CEO articulating the succession planning strategy and process.
Broaden the strategy discussion content for the two-day Board meeting and include additional targeted strategic discussion at Board meetings as appropriate: The 2015 strategy session was broader in context, with key management members invited who could provide added insight to the discussions.
It was also agreed to include strategy updates as a regular agenda for Board meetings.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 The Telecoms Regulatory Committee was created in May 2015, specifically to ACCOUNTABILITY ensure there was focus from the Board on this key area which affected all parts  of the Companys business operations both now and in the future.
The Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors and COMMITTEE meets as and when necessary, generally twice a year.
The Telecoms Regulatory Committee is authorised by the Board to: review key regulatory challenges facing the business of the Company and the strategy and action plans proposed to meet such challenges: discuss the Companys strategy for acquisition of spectrum and frequency rights: facilitate high level engagement with governments, regulatory bodies and international organisations as identified by the Company: review upcoming key regulatory meetings, the proposed agendas and events and the Companys plans to cover such events: support the Company in various countries to secure authorisations for ANDREWSUKAWATY market access as identified by the Company: CHAIRMAN,  obtain the advice and assistance of any of the Companys executives having particular expertise in such matters: and to review, and advise on, the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the We believe that the creation of this Companys regulatory policy and strategy as presented by the Companys Committee will provide focus from members executives and provide guidance on proactive measures proposed by the Company to maintain its leading position and competitiveness in of our Board with significant regulatory the industry.
This is a key area which affects all A key focus for the Company during 2015 was the preparation and participation at the 2015 World Radio Conference, which spans a month, with discussions parts of the Companys business operations covering issues which related to Inmarsat specifically as well as the broader satellite industry.
The inputs of the Committee members to provide guidance both now and in the future.
and sharing views with the management team who were representing the Company at these discussions was extremely valuable and contributed to the 2015KEYACHIEVEMENTS Company achieving its objectives.
We created the terms of reference to establish this new Board Committee in May 2015 We provided inputs to assist the Company prepare for a significant regulatory conference in 2015 We provided overview guidance on developing regulatory activities MEMBERSIN2015 Scheduled meetings attended Andrew Sukawaty Chairman Sir Bryan Carsberg Janice Obuchowski Dr Hamadoun Tour AREAOFFOCUSFOR2015 A key focus for the Committee during 2015 was to contribute oversight and guidance for the Companys preparation and participation in the 2015 World Radio Conference.
This expertise was used to help management in discussions covering issues which related to Inmarsat specifically as well as the broader satellite industry.
68 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED  All members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors and the majority have significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is confident that the collective experience of the Audit Committee members enables them, as a group, to act as an effective Committee.
The table below shows who makes up the Audit Committee and their attendance at meetings during 2015.
Robert Ruijter joined the Committee on 1 February 2015 and became Chairman in November 2015, assuming the role from John Rennocks when he retired.
All members, apart from Mrs Obuchowski, are considered financial experts.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Deloitte LLP Deloitte audit engagement partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters ROBERTRUIJTER relating to the audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with CHAIRMAN, AUDITCOMMITTEE the internal and external auditors.
Im delighted to have been appointed Chairman The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for: of the Committee, taking over the responsibility monitoring the financial reporting process: the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and from John Rennocks.
Our Committee has strong risk management: the integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of significant members who are focused to deliver the highest issues and judgements, policies, and disclosures: keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost quality debate and discussion on the key effectiveness: matters brought forward to us for review.
consideration of managements response to any major external or internal audit recommendations: and being assured of the independence and objectivity of the internal and 2015KEYACHIEVEMENTS external auditor.
The Board requested that the Committee advise whether it believes the Annual We ensured a smooth transition of the Committee chairmanship Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the We discussed and planned for a retender of the audit firm Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees terms of reference have been amended to reflect this, and have been generally updated to reflect best practice, and can be found on our We recommended to put in place an enhanced risk management process website.
Details about the Committees assessment are shown at the end of this Report.
There is a forward agenda used for the years activities which focus on: MEMBERSIN2015 Scheduled meetings attended review of the annual financial statements and the results of the annual Robert Ruijter Chairman external audit and review of the external auditors quarterly and interim review work and relevant quarterly and interim financial reporting and the external audit plan: Sir Bryan Carsberg review of risk management reports: review of the preparation of the viability statement for use in the 2015 Stephen Davidson Preliminary Statement and Annual Report: and review of internal audit plans and findings and recommendations.
Janice Obuchowski 1 John Rennocks 1 Mr Rennocks retired from the Board on 6 November 2015.
AREAOFFOCUSFOR2015 The Committee requested and received changes to the risk management process to focus on principal risks and their mitigation.
This data supported the viability exercise which was performed by management to test the long range business plan against a number of severe but plausible principal risk scenarios.
The Committee felt that based on all contributions, the viability statement could be supported for Board approval.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 The Audit Committee ensures that the external audit process and audit quality  are effective.
It does this by: During 2015, the Audit Committee considered the significant accounting matters described below.
In addressing these issues the Committee considered relying on the engagement between the Audit Committee Chairman the appropriateness of managements accounting estimates and key and the lead audit engagement partner which will generally be through judgements, outlined in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The face-to-face meetings: Committee discussed these with the external auditor during the year and, where relying on the reports which are brought to the Committee by the lead audit appropriate, details of how they have been addressed are provided in the engagement partner and other senior members of the audit team: Independent Auditors report on pages 95 to 99. relying on the quality of the management responses to audit queries: relying on meetings held by the CEO and the Chairman with the lead audit REVENUERECOGNITION engagement partner which are reported to the Audit Chairman and The timing of revenue recognition is a key area of judgement, especially in the Committee: telecommunications industry.
The Groups internal audit team have kept relying on a review of independence and objectivity of the audit firm and also significant revenue systems, processes and recognition as a focus area during the quality of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to shareholders: and the year and the external auditor performed detailed audit procedures on seeking feedback from members of the finance team, the Company Secretary, revenue recognition, with the findings of both being reported to the Audit and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee is considering the use of a Committee.
The Audit Committee have therefore concluded that the Groups formal auditor assessment tool for future review of audit effectiveness.
revenue recognition policies continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
During the reporting year to 31 December 2015, the activities of the Audit The Groups accounting policies with regards to revenue recognition remain Committee were: unchanged from the prior year, with the exception of the Groups accounting for take or pay revenue contracts.
Inmarsat enters into take or pay type ensure a smooth transition of Audit Committee chairmanship: contracts where the customer contracts to pay for a certain amount of airtime discussion and planning for the change in Audit Partner following his over a period.
The customer does not always utilise all of the airtime that they completing his five-year term of office: have the contractual right to use over the contract period.
Such unexercised discussion and planning for a retender of the audit firm in accordance with rights are often referred to as breakage.
rotation requirements for external auditors as Deloitte has been Auditor to the Company for 10 years: Historically Inmarsat has recognised revenue in line with customer usage and confirming to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, only recognised breakage in the final period of a customer contract.
From the balanced and understandable: beginning of 2015, the Group recognised breakage as revenue in proportion to review and endorsement, prior to submission to the Board, half-year and the pattern of rights exercised by the customer rather than being recognised as full-year financial statements, interim management statements and results a lump sum at the end of the contractual period.
The end of the contractual announcements: period coincides with the year end, so the change in accounting policy only review and approval of internal audit reports, and findings and impacts the timing of quarterly revenue recognition and has no impact on the recommendations arising from the reports: full year results.
This accounting treatment has been discussed and agreed with review and approval of risk management updates and the annual risk the external auditor.
management process: agreement of external and internal annual audit plans: The Audit Committee has therefore concluded that the Groups revenue receiving updates on management responses to audit recommendations: and recognition policies continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
reviewing key accounting judgements relating to specific transactions as well as changes to any accounting policies affecting the Groups financial position.
 AGREEMENT Reviews by the Committee of audit plans and risk reports include all Group The Audit Committee continues to review the accounting treatment for the operations.
Detailed risk reporting is used for all Group companies and business recognition of revenue and costs in respect of each phase of the LightSquared operations.
One of our subsidiary companies, Inmarsat Group Ltd, is required to Cooperation Agreement.
In December 2015 LightSquared emerged from produce quarterly financial statements, as required by its loan agreements, bankruptcy protection and raised substantial new capital.
Consequently, it is which are reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The quarterly review of the more likely that LightSquared will honour its financial obligations to Inmarsat risk reports and the process adopted to manage risk is a key area of focus for and so, in the fourth quarter, Inmarsat returned to an accruals basis for the Committee.
recognition of revenue in relation to Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement.
Audit Committee meetings generally take place just prior to a Board meeting to Deferred income in respect of Phase 1 from LightSquared continues to be maximise effectiveness and time planning efficiency of those attending.
The carried on the balance sheet.
Although the cash has been received, the timing Committees Chairman reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, of the recognition of this deferred income, together with any related future on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the costs and taxes, is dependent upon a number of factors that continue to be Board in the conduct of their work.
All members of the Board have access to uncertain.
Both the percentage of completion and straight-line method have Audit Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on request to the been used to recognise revenue and costs relating to Phase 1 of the Chairman, attend the meetings.
Cooperation Agreement in the past.
The Group continues to monitor the situation and will determine the appropriate revenue recognition treatment The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee the role of over the course of 2016. which is detailed on page 63, reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of financial and other material information to the Board.
The Audit Committee has deemed the current accounting treatment of all This enabled the Audit Committee to review and clarify the completeness of phases of the Cooperation Agreement appropriate.
financial reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
70 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED TAXATION INTERNALAUDIT The calculation of some of the Groups potential tax assets and liabilities Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items, the internal Audit Department is an agenda item at each Committee meeting.
whose tax treatment cannot be finalised until resolution has been reached with The internal Auditor presents reports at each meeting covering updates on the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
internal audit activities, results of audits and follow up actions required and Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
These may cover areas such as revenue assurance, accounting operations review following the implementation of a Group-wide The Committee addresses these matters through a range of reporting from financial accounting system, review of annual bonus calculations and IT senior management and a process of challenging the appropriateness of security and systems reviews.
managements views including the degree to which these are supported by professional advice from external legal and other advisory firms.
This is also an During 2015, there has been more linkage between the internal Auditors area of higher audit risk and, accordingly, the Committee received detailed reports and the key risks identified by the Company.
The Committee can see verbal and written reporting from the external auditor on these matters.
clearly from the risk reports which risks have been reviewed by the internal Following these procedures, the Audit Committee deemed the income tax Auditor as part of their annual review.
The Chairman of the Committee meets assets and liabilities balances for the year, as well as the Groups contingent with the internal Auditor as required but generally at least once a year.
liability disclosure in respect of income taxes, to be appropriate.
EXTERNALAUDITOR  The Financial Reporting Council issued a guide for Audit Committees to help BORROWINGCOSTS them evaluate auditor effectiveness.
There are several criteria included within Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other the report and while the Committee did not undertake a formal review, it associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
In addition, borrowing costs received inputs from different sources such as the Auditors themselves, as well attributable to qualifying space segment assets are added to the cost of those as management and the input from the members of the Committee itself which assets.
Given the nature of the Groups business, significant capital expenditure assisted it to determine that the Auditor and its work were effective.
At each of is incurred on space segment assets.
The key judgements involved in the the Audit Committee meetings, the Auditor would report on any issues it capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowings costs are: perceived regarding quality control and where it thought judgements had been applied by management and if it agreed with these, or offered an alternative whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IFRS have been met: view if appropriate.
The findings and reports from the Auditor help the Audit allocation of an appropriate asset class and associated useful economic life Committee make any assessments about the need to update processes or in accordance with Group policies: undertake further review work on any particular issues.
whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease: and In accordance with the Competition and Markets Authority requirements whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation of regarding the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market costs should cease and depreciation should commence.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, we are undertaking a competitive The external auditor examined the capitalisation of development costs in the tender process of our external Auditor.
A competitive tender process is a year, particularly in relation to the Global Xpress and S-band satellite process where the Company invites and evaluates bids for the provision of programmes and reported its findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit statutory audit services from two or more auditors.
Given that our current Committee is satisfied that space segment assets and associated borrowing Auditor was appointed in 2006, we are required to undertake a competitive costs have been capitalised correctly in the year.
tender for the 2016 financial year audit.
Given their length of tenure, it is possible for Deloitte, the existing Auditor, to be reappointed as a result of the  tender.
We would expect the appointment of the external Auditor to be made The Group has significant goodwill and other intangible asset balances.
shortly after the Annual General Meeting in May 2016 which will see Deloitte As explained in our accounting policies in note 2 to the consolidated financial being re-appointed subject to the ongoing tender process.
If Deloitte is statements, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are reviewed annually unsuccessful, a new Auditor will be appointed after the 2016 Annual General for impairment.
Goodwill is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by Meeting and shareholders will be invited to confirm that appointment at the the Group.
With the additional EU directive now completed, if we appoint the existing Auditor as part of the retender process, they could The Committee received a detailed report regarding the assumptions used in remain in place for an additional 10 years after the retender.
The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business.
The Committee has Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through a variety of confirmed: consistency of the methodology applied, use of the Boardmechanisms.
To ensure the Auditors independence, the Committee annually approved long-range business plan updated for any relevant changes, reviews the Companys relationship with Deloitte and receives summaries at appropriateness of terminal growth rates, and discount rates.
each Audit Committee meeting from the Auditor as to their independence.
The Committee concluded that it continues to have an objective and professional The Committee agrees with the impairment review carried out by management relationship with Deloitte and that there are sufficient controls and processes in and are satisfied that there is no impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or place to ensure the required level of independence.
The external Auditor is other intangible assets.
required to change the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current audit partner was appointed in 2011 and the final audit he will be responsible for is the 2015 financial year.
A new audit partner has been identified and will take over as the lead for the 2016 reporting period if Deloitte is successful in the retender process.
A resolution to appoint Auditors at the 2016 AGM will be put forward to shareholders.
During the year, Deloitte charged the Group US$1.8m 2014: US$2.6m for audit and audit-related services.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 NON-AUDITSERVICES ISTHEREPORTBALANCED?
The Companys Auditor may also be used to provide specialist advice where, as Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative reporting in the a result of their position as Auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, front and the financial reporting in the back of the report, and does the perform the work in question.
A formal policy is in place in relation to the messaging reflected in each remain consistent when read independently of provision of non-audit services by the Auditor to ensure that there is adequate each other?
protection of their independence and objectivity.
Inmarsats policy is to adopt Is the Annual Report properly a document for shareholders?
a strict 70% cap for allowable non-audit services.
To ensure the policy is Are the statutory and adjusted measures explained clearly with appropriate adequately controlled, we adopt several processes, which were enforced during prominence?
Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit services require the Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where the fee is less than significant issues reported in this Audit Committee Report consistent with the 50,000.
Any commitments above this amount will require the Audit disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in Committee Chairmans approval.
A summary is supplied to the Audit the financial statements?
Committee at each meeting where amounts have been committed below How do these compare with the risks that Deloitte plan to include in their 50,000.
Separate engagement letters are signed by our CFO for each audit audit report?
and non-audit engagement with Deloitte.
Using 2014, 2013 and 2012 for calculating the average audit fees paid to Is there a clear and understandable framework to the report?
Deloitte, the cap on non-audit services as it relates to 2015 will be $1m, and this Are the important messages highlighted appropriately throughout the amount in 2015 was $600k compared to $1m in 2014.
A breakdown of the fees document?
paid to Deloitte during the year is set out in note 6 to the consolidated Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner that reflects the financial statements.
It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several firms, which CONCLUSION may include Deloitte, before work on non-audit projects is awarded.
Contracts Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2015 Annual are awarded to our suppliers based on individual merits.
The Committee and Report and Accounts is representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced the Companys management are aware that the level of fees paid to Deloitte for and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for non-audit services compared to audit services was significantly higher several shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model years ago due to work undertaken regarding specialist tax advice on certain and strategy.
transactions and has worked to ensure that the non-audit fee levels have reduced over the last few years.
The Committee does not believe that asking Deloitte to undertake non-audit work is an issue for the Company as it is satisfied with the quality of work and advice provided and, importantly, it believes the independence of the auditor is not at risk.
Additionally, where non-audit work is undertaken, management will have negotiated competitive rates for each piece of work.
We receive advice from other firms for specific projects and other long-term projects.
We have continued to use PwC, KPMG and EY for various projects some are new projects and some have been continuing for several years.
We also use different firms to support us on VAT and ad hoc PAYE issues.
FAIR,  We have included more focus this year on linking the various sections of the Annual Report to make it easier for shareholders to navigate to find the information they need, while not diluting the level of transparency in our disclosures.
When forming its opinion as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable, the Committee reflected on the information it had received and its discussions throughout the year.
In particular, the Committee considered: ISTHEREPORTFAIR?
Is the whole story presented and has any sensitive material been omitted that should have been included?
Is the reporting on the business segments in the narrative reporting consistent with those used for the financial reporting in the financial statements?
Are the key messages in the narrative reflected in the financial reporting?
Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level based on the financial reporting?
