22 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS OUR CONTINUED COMMITMENT At Inmarsat, we take pride in effectively harnessing our resources, both on the ground and in space, and in fostering relationships that deliver a positive impact on businesses and communities across the globe.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 OUR PEOPLE The activities identified following the 2014 staff Building our culture at Inmarsat continues to be survey have had considerable focus during 2015 a priority and each year we focus on different as noted below: aspects of that: 2014 was our Year of Engagement, 2015 was our Year of Enablement and 2016 will be Communications: Investment in a new intranet our Year of Effectiveness.
These themes have that is scheduled to go live in 2016 will improve driven how we review our learning and development the opportunities for our global staff to share planning for all employees and have contributed information more easily and deepen their to how we consider our overall employee understanding about our entire business.
This includes a focus on alignment Performance and reward: Our benchmarking across our global business for how we operate as process continued to improve during 2015.
We colleagues, a renewal of the Inmarsat qualities put in place an updated annual bonus plan which relate to our behaviours at work and we have whereby all employees in the plan have some also put in place a roadmap to ensure consistency element of bonus linked to Inmarsat plc results, across the Group for job levels and compensation.
to encourage teamwork and collaboration.
policy can be found on our website.
As part of Staff learning and development: A significant our commitment to preventing bribery and The following sections cover some key areas of investment was made to an ongoing, Groupestablishing a culture that does not tolerate focus in building our culture.
wide training programme for managers, corruption wherever and in whatever form it may equipping them with leadership and coaching be encountered, we ask our Directors, employees STAFF SURVEY skills.
We called these employee workshops and contractors to confirm annually that they We regularly poll our global staff members to Lead the Way and believe they will empower understand the restrictions outlined in the policy ensure they have the opportunity to share their managers in their daily roles and help them and the implications for breaching the policy for views and feedback to the management team as develop their teams to fulfil their potential.
the business and them as individuals.
Our to where we are doing well and any areas of Phase two is now underway as Lead the Way anti-bribery policy operates in line with guidance concern.
The last in-depth survey was conducted Mastery.
provided by the UK Ministry of Justice and in 2014, garnering a 94% response rate, which our Leadership: There has been a dedicated complies with current legislation.
The policy advisers, Hay Group, said exceeded the average programme of leadership skills training for the also incorporates guidelines on dealing with gifts they would generally see for similar workforces Executive Management Team and the Global and accepting and giving hospitality.
We followed-up in 2015 with a Pulse Leadership Team.
Survey to assess the response to progress Systems and processes: We now have a OneIT We have separate policies in place dealing with made on the areas raised for review.
Again, project which is responsible for reviewing, ethics, fraud, the use of inside information and we had a very strong response rate of over 75%, streamlining and improving all systems and whistleblowing.
Directors, employees and from our highly-engaged global workforce.
processes across the business for the benefit contractors are asked once a year to confirm of all stakeholders.
that they understand these policies and how Positive scores were achieved on many Resources: We have seen a considerable they are applied.
Inmarsat is well above the number of staff join Inmarsat in 2015 to support telecommunications sector benchmark norm for growth plans for the business 337 in total.
We have a worldwide anonymous telephone employees feeling proud to work at Inmarsat and Additionally, we promoted internally for service for employees to use if they have any they feel supported in achieving a work-life 92 positions.
In the last year, the external provider balance.
Positive scores were also received in received one enquiry call.
areas of pay and benefits and confidence in the leadership of the business.
Areas highlighted VALUES for continued focus are the need to: We have Inmarsat values and qualities which operate throughout the business.
These are part find additional ways to communicate across of the induction process for our employees and are We are well above the a global business: covered too as part of our induction process for seek opportunities to recognise and reward Directors, including our Non-Executive Directors.
telecommunications sector good performance or manage it appropriately: Our values drive how we operate in the business benchmark norm for employees encourage greater discussion about career and are Passion, Openness, being Enterprising development: and and Market-driven.
Our focus is how people reflect feeling proud to work at put in place improved work processes and work these values in dealing with each other as flows to help deliver objectives.
colleagues and any third party.
qualities that are the behaviours by which we demonstrate our core values, and are one of the ways in which individual performance is assessed.
These behaviours are grouped into: Efficiency, CODE OF CONDUCT Customer Excellence, Enterprise Spirit, Open Our Code of Ethics our Code requires that Communication, Values-based Leadership and Directors, officers and employees conduct Innovation.
The ways we demonstrate the Inmarsat business in accordance with the highest standards qualities contribute to reward generally, whether of personal and professional integrity.
A copy of through bonus awards or promotion opportunities.
our Code is published on our website.
DIVERSITY OF EMPLOYEE BASE AND We comply with local laws where we operate, and NON-DISCRIMINATION across our Group we ensure our employees comply We do not tolerate discrimination in any form with the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt race, gender, age, culture, disability against our Practices Act.
A summary of our anti-bribery employees, either from other employees or third 24 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED parties.
There are anonymous helplines and email The percentage of females on the Executive managers benefited from manager training, whilst addresses an employee can use if they experience Management Board and wider number of senior three Global Leadership Team meetings, attended or see such activity, and employees are also managers represent the definition as set out in the by approximately 50 global senior managers, encouraged to speak directly to their manager.
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills focused on leadership skills.
Individual job-related When recruiting, we value diversity in its broadest BIS requirements.
The percentages set out in the training continued to be provided to meet the definition and work to provide opportunities for all, table are in line with those disclosed last year.
including for disabled employees reviewing the requirements of their working environment to STAFF FORUMS HEALTH AND SAFETY accommodate practical changes as far as possible We have elected employee forums in the UK The Inmarsat plc Board receives an annual update to allow them to continue in their daily work routine.
and Batam in Indonesia, a Works Council in the on health and safety activity across the Group.
If such changes were unrealistic to implement, we Netherlands and an Enterprise Agreement in Perth, Rupert Pearce, CEO, has been identified as having would review alternative employment options for Australia.
During 2015 we held international staff responsibility for health and safety issues within the the individual within the Group.
forum meetings which included our elected UK Group.
We have a dedicated Health and Safety Staff Reps plus HR representatives from our global Manager who is located in our headquarters office We are very proud that we have continued to operations discussing comments and questions and our subsidiary operations have identified have 65 different nationalities within the Inmarsat from their colleagues.
These groups extend managers responsible for health and safety across Group.
This breadth of employee culture and two-way open communications between their operations.
experience supports our Global Reach, Global employees and management and allow the views Impact theme as everyone is a contributor to our of employees to be taken into account in making Our goal is to encourage strong leadership in business operations.
decisions which may affect their interests.
In the championing the importance of, and a commonUK, the Staff Forum is an elected body constituted sense approach to health and safety in the We recognise the importance of diversity amongst in accordance with prevailing legislation to provide workplace.
We recognise the need to provide a safe our employees and are committed to ensuring that the formal means of consultation on contractual working environment for our employees, contractors employees are selected and promoted on the basis matters, as and when required.
In other countries, and any visitors.
Regular health and safety audits of merit and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, these bodies are constituted according to are undertaken at key operating sites.
Across the religion, sexual orientation or disability.
Group, we had 13 2014: 15 accidents or near misses split across the Group including contingency reported, and again we had no fatalities.
workers as at February 2016 is illustrated in the LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT table below: We have a policy of promoting employees During the year we undertook the following internally where possible.
Where it makes sense occupational health activities: for the business and the individuals personal Female Male development and career enhancement, we will Cancer awareness programme across Inmarsat plc No.
% consider moving employees to different office many of our offices.
We have established policies which A Backs2015 initiative to encourage staff Executive address key corporate objectives in the to check their posture.
Management management of employee relations, We extended our Annual Health and Wellbeing Board 2 18% 9 82% communications and employee involvement, Day to become a week of activities across our Senior training and personal development and equal global offices.
Employees are supported in their We introduced an online management software All employees career development through an annual appraisal tool for reporting and recording incidents.
including scheme, and training is provided to support this.
contingency During 2015, we provided many different levels of workers 559 30% 1,305 70% training.
Around 300 managers 80% of STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 We have identified four continuing health and to the Group both during 2015 and through the We will be including a statement in our 2016 Annual safety priorities based on business activities and contract life, delivering multi-million dollar savings.
Report on the Transparency in Supply Chain clause the potential harm to staff: Another key priority for the Global Procurement of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 regarding slavery team this year has been to better understand our and human trafficking.
Musculoskeletal disorders and display screen current vendor base.
We undertake a robust due equipment related ill health.
diligence process for new vendors through a MEETING OUR PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY Working at height.
This includes reviewing Our website provides considerable information Manual handling.
financial stability, compliance with relevant current about how we connect with organisations, Lone working.
legislation and customer references for similar individuals and our different partners to extend goods and services.
Additionally, we reviewed the the reach of our services to support those who may Specific training and awareness materials are number of vendors we trade with to allow us to need assistance either for humanitarian needs or provided to staff who are affected by these establish better relationships and to enable greater charitable endeavours.
You can find out more on identified areas of work.
leverage of our global spend in 2016.
com and review case studies and through a well-managed preferred supplier list updates in our CSR section.
At the start of 2015, we received an International including Group wide corporate arrangements.
Safety Award from the British Safety Council which Our maritime heritage is a key reminder to us of how demonstrates Inmarsats commitment to health, we have supported mariners and the wider maritime safety and wellbeing in the workplace.
community for over 35 years and remain focused on doing so in the future.
We remain the only approved As part of our business of running a global satellite provider of satellite communications services for network, we operate a number of ground earth the GMDSS and we continue to invest in the Inmarsats 99.9% satellite and stations, VSAT and telemetry and tracking facilities development of maritime safety services.
Our where there are satellite dishes which generate SafetyNET service continues to be used to provide ground network availability is radiation.
Access to these sites is restricted and vital updates on reported pirate activity.
The service key to saving lives at sea.
there are regular health and safety checks to enables ship masters to access reports of pirate ensure that they are in protected areas away from movements, giving them information to know which access by the general public.
Personnel who work regions to avoid with high pirate activity and allowing at these sites are provided with relevant training as them to re-route if necessary.
to health and safety issues.
The 2014-15 Volvo Round the World Ocean OUR TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATIONS Race, of which Inmarsat is the official satellite We have identified technology as one of our key communications provider, relies on Inmarsat safety resources supporting our business model.
While services for the crews to maintain communication investment in innovation is clearly important, at all times, wherever they are.
FleetBroadband, having talented and experienced teams who Inmarsat C and our handheld phone are all understand how technology and innovation can standard equipment for each of the yachts.
Our teams watch what Our IsatPhone was used in an emergency when happens in the macro environment and see how one of the ships ran aground with the yacht captain this affects how we innovate for the future to praising it for helping save the crews lives.
produce services our customers want to use.
In addition to maritime safety services, we also OUR PARTNERS promote safety services to the aviation industry Our partners are critical to our business success.
Our We will focus further in 2016 on building the for use in the cockpit.
We remain committed to definition of partners encompasses all those we work foundations of a solid procurement function the provision of International Civil Aviation with manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, service including process simplification initiatives such as Organization ICAO approved satellite safety providers and end users.
We rely on their excellence invoice consolidation, increased use of purchasing services, and are expanding our safety offerings to support the achievement of our business cards and standard contractual frameworks this through our SwiftBroadband service.
We are objectives and strengthen our service offering.
all contributes to making us easier to do business supportive of the announcement that has come with.
This procurement as a service model will help following the resolution made in early 2015 by the Our partners can provide local and global expertise improve efficiency and reduce our overall cost of ICAO, the United Nations aviation body tasked with which supplement our own capabilities their doing business which makes us more effective as monitoring the global aviation industry, to adopt a activities support our Annual Report theme of a business.
We will progressively work to ensure that all our We need to ensure that we understand what they suppliers adhere to our standards of ethical want from us as a partner so that we meet their behaviour, environmental, health and safety and expectations for working with us.
We are reviewing other relevant working practises.
We have been how we partner going forwards to make us simpler starting to review our due diligence procedures and easier to do business with in respect of our to ensure we ask for, collect and review supplier contracts, pricing and other ways we interact with information provided to us to ensure they are them.
It is important for our partner relationships organisations we want to do business with.
It is that we are operating fairly in our business dealings important for us to work with companies who and ongoing relationships.
acknowledge they have a responsibility for these good working practices, especially on the Our Group-led category management approach to environmental impact their work may have if procurement and supply management is maturing they produce satellites, procure launches and and has delivered significant financial contribution manufacture terminals for us.
26 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED In 2015, we continued to support the Our global offices support local causes at a EDUCATION telecommunications relief aid organisation, corporate and employee level and we encourage We continued with our funding of the Inmarsat Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF $200,000 and staff to get involved in local community initiatives.
Chair of Maritime Education and Training at the paid $115,000 to the World Maritime University as Employees across our offices are encouraged to World Maritime University which supports the part of our support for the education of maritime support individual charities of their choice, and for education of maritime specialists.
These two amounts are our most employees in our principal UK office, this is significant charitable payments.
The total encouraged through the UK Governments tax We encourage internships with schools and charitable donation amount paid in 2015 was approved contributions scheme.
universities to provide students with the approximately $865,000.
opportunity to experience first-hand the This year we have leveraged Inmarsats global engineering and technical aspects of satellite reach to deliver benefits across Africa to operations.
unconnected communities through a series of scalable innovation pilots.
We are working This years Inmarsat Summer Strategy Challenge alongside maternal health partners in Nigeria came to a successful conclusion when students to ensure that 50 remote clinics, which serve a studying science, technology, engineering and We are proud to have supported community of 50,000 women are connected to mathematics STEM courses from City and key health resources.
In Kenya, we have worked Islington College in London presented their findings TSF, the telecommunications relief closely with Equity Bank, their Foundation and the on the Digital Divide to a prestigious audience of aid organisation, for 15 years.
Open University to deliver financial services and industry experts.
The challenge was set using the education content to 200 sites in total across the ongoing UK Space Agency-funded Digital Frontiers country, reaching a population of 40,000. project to bring internet connectivity to local communities in key growth hubs in Sub-Saharan Our core charitable support remains focused on We have worked closely with development and Africa.
Now in its second year the programme, with the work carried out by TSF.
We are very proud to digital economy experts to create a global the London-based school, forms part of Inmarsats have supported this wonderful charity for 15 years.
STARHub is hosted by the promotion of STEM education to encourage young TSF runs programmes on disaster relief and Satellite Applications Catapult and brings together people to be inspired by space-enabled preparedness, training other relief organisations satellite capabilities with those exposed to poor communications and to follow careers in the and regional and national disaster response infrastructure in Africa, Asia and South America.
agencies about the available capabilities for Other partners from the UK include the Royal emergency telecommunications.
TSF help African Society, Archbishop Tutus Global eHealth We are also investing in the careers of future these organisations respond to an emergency Foundation, Open University, Dalberg Group, engineers with a new Technology Development knowing they have the necessary training to Caribou Digital and the London Institute of Space Programme, designed to provide newly qualified use BGAN terminals and IsatPhone, our handheld Policy and Law.
STEM-based graduates with a platform to develop satellite phone.
The graduate We were delighted in December 2015 to be scheme confirms Inmarsats commitment to We have also continued our support for announced as a winner at the first annual Better supporting and enabling the next generation of the International Telecommunications Union ITU.
Satellite World Awards, organised by the Society world-class engineers.
It includes a two-year This enhanced in 2015 with our signing of an MoU of Satellite Professionals International.
This tailored programme of continuous learning and with ITU-D in the framework of the Smart award recognised our role in providing satellite development at Inmarsat, with the continuation Sustainable Development Model SSDM which communications, to deliver critical data to of employment within a technology-focused team aims to foster the use of satellite broadband support safety services, enable NGO and after this initial period.
services in remote or under-developed areas.
humanitarian aid in times of a disaster and We have committed to $100,000 worth of airtime provide a vital communication service wherever Our website contains more information on the over a three-year period which will start to be drawn and whenever needed.
areas of education we support including, for against when the ITU identifies a project in a example, our continued support for World Space suitable community.
Week, an initiative started by the United Nations in 1999.
In October 2015, we, along with world-leading satellite operators under the umbrella of the EMEA Satellite Operators Association and the Global VSAT Forum, signed a Crisis Connectivity Charter at the World Humanitarian Summit Global Consultation in Geneva to enhance connectivity in the case of humanitarian emergencies.
Our Universal Service Obligations seek to support the use of our services, normally payphones, in rural villages in remote regions of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 Our mission is to adopt and support the a popular means of communication with staff following principles: working in different locations and across different time zones.
provide first-class energy and environmental management practices: COMMERCIAL WASTE comply with all relevant global environmental In the London office and at our major sites, legislation and regulatory controls: we continue a progressive approach to waste identify significant environmental and social management.
Recycling is managed locally in the impacts and establish objectives and targets larger sites with the separation of plastics, paper for improvement: and non-recyclable materials.
In the head office in our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% in London, which is the single largest office for the of generated waste and to constantly review the Group, 100% of waste is diverted from landfill opportunity to use recycled products: and this policy has been in place since 2009. to actively encourage the conservation of We separate our waste into four streams: ENVIRONMENT energy, water and natural resources through the recyclable, non-recyclable, glass and confidential In 2015 Inmarsat achieved a carbon disclosure score increased efficiency and introduction of new and waste.
Confidential waste is shredded and pulped to of 95 from the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP modern technology: be reused in paper products.
This is our highest score and elevates to encourage all employees to be proactive in material is incinerated and converted to electricity us to the same level as telecommunications their daily activities by separating their waste and all other waste is recycled.
In 2015 our companies such as BT and Vodafone.
Annually, into dry and wet waste receptacles: contractors collected 53 tonnes of recyclable Inmarsat has entered the CDP and this years ensuring that printer cartridges are recycled: waste from the London head office and a further responses followed a deep dive analysis of our switching off lights, computers, phone chargers 105 tonnes were sent for incineration and approach to climate change.
We were delighted to and any other electrical items when not in use: converted into electricity.
receive a good rating from the CDP and in 2016 plan reducing business travel and using more to undertake more analysis in the area of assurance site-based technology such as video and SPACE DEBRIS and governance.
audio conferencing: and As a satellite operator, we have adopted the to replace inefficient building lighting with highest industry standards in terms of space Although the activities of the Group are judged to LED technology.
debris mitigation, including end-of-life graveyard have a low environmental impact and are not manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when expected to give rise to any significant, inherent We continue to monitor our energy consumption they reach the end of their commercial life.
Our final environmental risks over the next 12 months, we and comply with our social and legal responsibilities Inmarsat-2 satellite was deorbited in 2014.
Its take seriously the environmental issues of running in terms of carbon emissions.
Please see our deorbit was undertaken in full compliance with the the business and this is reflected in the additional summary of carbon emissions within the Report of relevant ITU standards.
We also deorbited a satellite information provided to and assessed by the CDP.
Energy efficiency is one we operated for an Asian partner in early 2015.
Some of our environmental impacts include the of the key considerations when replacing obsolete We expect that during 2016 we will plan to deorbit use of natural resources, the consumption of and inefficient machinery.
the first of our five Inmarsat-3 satellites.
We operate energy and water and the production of a variety our satellites in geosynchronous orbit which is of waste, in addition to staff and visitors travelling In 2015 Inmarsat achieved compliance with the approximately 36,000km above the earth.
This orbit for business purposes around the globe.
We Department of Energy and Climate Change Energy has significantly less debris than in a low earth orbit acknowledge that we have an impact on the local Savings Opportunity Scheme.
Both our London which is approximately 700km above the earth and and global environment and our objective is to and Hague offices were reviewed under the terms where several MSS operators have their minimise this.
of the scheme and appropriate actions taken.
In 2016 Inmarsat will consider a number of We have approximately 1,700 staff who work in over energy-saving initiatives to support our We are also a founding member of the Space Data 50 locations around the world.
Of those offices, compliance efforts at both sites.
Along with Intelsat, SES and Eutelsat warehouses and earth stations, over 80% of our we aim to improve the satellite safety of flight and staff operate from eight locations.
We continue to review new technologies and make operations in space safer and more reliable.
We In 2015 we continued to consolidate leased continue to be committed to our waste The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to locations and reduced our locations by eight sites.
Video 51 has been approved by the Board.
In addition we developed a Logistics Strategy with conferencing and other collaboration tools an objective to consolidate warehouse operations allowing visual connectivity are being used to On behalf of the Board to three locations across the globe by mid 2017. reduce the dependency on air transport and are The net effect of reducing the number of offices ALISON HORROCKS and warehouses will be to reduce our global CO Chief Corporate Affairs Officer 2 emissions and energy consumption.
We plan and Company Secretary to continue our office consolidation programme 3 March 2016 in 2016 which will also reduce our impact on the environment.
