STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Nomination Committee Report Succession planning The Committee has reviewed Executive Committee succession plans, to ensure we have a strong leadership pipeline.
Over the last 12 months, the majority of appointments to regional and functional leadership roles have been internal, and we have also attracted high performers from global, blue-chip organisations to improve the strength of our talent pipeline.
We have also taken steps to improve the rigour of our talent management framework processes, including the introduction of a globally consistent framework for differentiating how we invest in high performers and those with great potential, a consistent model for identifying potential and a more regular and robust talent governance process.
We acknowledge that a Board that In January 2016, Tracy Robbins stepped down from the Board and her role as Executive Vice President, Human Resources at IHG due is diverse in its skills, experience, to health reasons.
Lori Gaytan, Senior Vice President of Human Resources for The Americas, is covering the role on an interim basis.
knowledge, gender and background is a stronger Board.
Independence and tenure Jennifer Laing has served on the Board for 10 years, and Ying Yeh The Nomination Committee regularly considers the structure, size has served on the Board for eight years, and both will be stepping and composition of the Board, advising on succession planning and down following the Companys AGM to be held on Friday 6 May 2016. making appropriate recommendations to ensure the Board retains Jill McDonald will take up the role of Chairman of the Corporate an appropriate mix of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity in Responsibility Committee with effect from that date.
All other line with our strategy.
It is also responsible for reviewing the Groups Directors have served for less than six years, see pages 55 to 57. senior leadership needs.
Diversity Governance We recognise the value of diversity in its broadest sense and, while all Our role and responsibilities are set out in our terms of reference appointments to the Board are made on the basis of merit, experience ToR, which are reviewed and updated annually as appropriate.
and performance, we strongly believe that our leadership should reect The ToR are available on the Companys website at www.
com the diversity of our employees, our guests and the local communities in investors under corporate governance committees.
We seek to ensure the Board maintains an effective balance through having the broad range of skills, experience, and All members have the experience and expertise necessary to meet knowledge that comes with a diverse mix of people.
With regard to the Committees responsibilities and are Independent Non-Executive gender diversity, we are committed to maintaining a level of at least 25 Directors excluding myself, as required under the ToR.
On 1 March per cent female Directors on the Board over the short to medium term, 2015, Anne Busquet was appointed to the Committee.
When the a record which we have sustained since 2012.
While recent changes to Committee considers matters relating to my position, Dale Morrison, the Board have meant that the 50 per cent female representation we the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, acts as Chairman had at 31 December 2015 dropped to 45 per cent as at 22 February 2016 of the Committee.
and will be 33 per cent following the AGM on 6 May 2016, we continue to explore opportunities to redress this.
The Board has made great Board and Committee composition and appointments progress in recent years to broaden the diversity of its members and The Committee continually keeps under review the tenure and senior management, and we review our policies regularly to ensure that qualications of the Non-Executive Directors to ensure the Board they continue to drive the benets of having a diverse Board and a has an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, experience, knowledge diverse workforce across the Group see page 18. and diversity.
The Committee also concentrates on strengthening the Boards existing Our priorities for 2016 capabilities.
In 2015, the Committee recommended to the Board that During 2016, the Committee will continue to: i keep in review the Anne Busquet be appointed as a Non-Executive Director due to her structure, size and composition of the Board, in line with our priorities: impressive experience in finance, brands and digital commerce.
and ii ensure that the Board and its Committees has, and continues Neither an external search consultancy nor open advertising was to have, the right balance of skills, knowledge, experience and used for Annes appointment, as she was recommended to the Board diversity to meet the needs of the business.
as a potential candidate during the search that led to Jo Harlows appointment.
Anne was subject to a rigorous selection process that Patrick Cescau included interviews with members of the Board and Executive Nomination Committee Chairman Committee, including the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer.
22 February 2016 On the Committees recommendation, the Board considered Annes experience and knowledge, and approved Annes appointment with effect from 1 March 2015.
Following Annes appointment, the Committee considered the membership of other Board Committees, which resulted in the appointment of Dale Morrison to the Remuneration Committee and the appointment, in Dales place, of Jill McDonald to the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 65
