Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report Code of Conduct and related policies including a report on the progress of training and awareness efforts.
The Head of Information Security provided an update on our approach to, and the activities planned to mitigate against, information security risks.
In addition, the Committee considered the requirements for, and approach to the preparation of, the viability statement, together with the other requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and other relevant regulatory changes.
See pages 25 to 27 for further details.
Financial reporting and controls During the year the Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements considering the relevant accounting and reporting matters and the Groups treasury policies and nancing strategy.
The Committee also received a presentation from the head By ensuring that high standards of of the Groups offshore, centralised accounting service, the Business Service Centre, given the significant role the Centre plays in the governance are embedded throughout Groups financial controls and reporting.
The key financial controls the business, we support the long-term across the business continue to be monitored and tested to ensure that an appropriate framework exists and to ensure compliance with success of the Group.
our US obligations arising from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 SOX.
The Committee assesses the approach to SOX compliance each year and the Committee regularly reviews reports on the progress of the SOX programme, which has enabled representations regarding the The Board has overall responsibility for the management of business effectiveness of internal financial controls to be made, noting that risk.
The Audit Committee plays a crucial role in assisting the Board there are no material weaknesses in the control environment.
to discharge that duty by monitoring, reviewing and challenging the An external review of current SOX control processes was conducted effectiveness of the Groups systems of control and processes in 2015 and the findings were presented to the Audit Committee in concerning financial reporting: fraud, bribery and corruption detection: July.
The review concluded that the Group has a clear framework whistleblowing: business continuity: and risk management, thereby for reviewing SOX compliance and is committed to effective internal ensuring that robust systems and procedures are in place to aid the controls.
Opportunities were identied to further enhance the Groups long-term success of the Group as a whole.
The Committee also framework and the Group is addressing these on an ongoing basis.
monitors and reviews the appointment of the Groups external Auditor including the nature and scope of the audit, the Auditors independence The Committee continues to conclude that the Group has in place and effectiveness, audit fees and the provision of non-audit services.
an effective system of risk management and internal controls, and, through its review, has not identied any significant failings Governance or weaknesses.
Details of our role and responsibilities are set out in our terms of reference ToR, which are reviewed annually and updated accordingly.
Global Internal Audit GIA effectiveness The ToR are available on the Companys website at www.
com An effectiveness review of GIA is undertaken annually and reported investors under corporate governance committees.
Anne Busquet to the Committee.
In 2015, GIA undertook a self-assessment against was appointed to the Committee on 1 March 2015, and all members the categories identied in the last external review: GIAs positioning are Independent Non-Executive Directors, as required under the ToR.
within the business, the appropriateness of stafng and the adequacy of GIAs processes.
The Committee concluded that GIA continues to System of risk management and internal controls operate effectively.
Internal controls and risk management The Committee supports the Board in reviewing the effectiveness External Auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY of the Groups internal control and risk management systems, having The Committee considers the appointment of its Auditor annually after oversight of the risk and control activities in operation across the assessing EYs performance including its independence, Group.
In support of this, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness and objectivity and considering the requirements for principal risks and the operation of the risk management systems, putting an audit out to tender as set out in the Code and EU and seeking assurance that the principal risks faced by the Group are Competition and Markets Authority legislation.
EY has been our being identied, assessed, prioritised, evaluated and appropriately Auditor since IHGs listing in April 2003. managed and mitigated, having regard to the Groups risk appetite.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit, we concluded that it The Committees review is supported by the Global Internal Audit would not be in the best interests of the Group to undertake an audit GIA plan, which is discussed in December each year.
The Committee tender at this time, but we will continue to monitor the performance of approves the nature and scope of the plan, and is responsible for the Auditors and an audit tender will be undertaken when appropriate reviewing and monitoring the activities of the GIA department in line and, in any event, when required by the current legislation.
In 2015, the agreed schedule of audits included As part of its annual review, the Committee reviews the effectiveness reviews of System Fund controls, the IHG Rewards Club points of the relationship between EY and the Groups management redemption processes, the Kimpton integration, and project and including the responses to questionnaires on EYs audit process programme management.
completed by more than 30 senior IHG employees who work with EY, The Committee also considered in 2015 the Groups biannual reports and receives reports from EY on its independence.
As well as Group on significant incidents of fraud and matters raised through the Groups policies and procedures, which aim to safeguard EYs independence condential disclosure channel and any related investigations, and the and effectiveness, EY has its own protective policies and systems in 62 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION significant matters in the 2015 Financial Statements The Committee discussed with management the key judgements applied in the Financial Statements, the exceptional items arising in the year and the impact of any accounting developments or legislative changes.
The main items discussed were: Issue What we did Accounting for The Committee reviewed a paper from management outlining the accounting approach adopted for the System Fund the System Fund and also the Company response to comment letters from the SEC on this topic.
The Committee concluded that the judgement in respect of the accounting treatment for the System Fund and related disclosures were appropriate.
IHG Rewards Club The Committee reviewed the approach to the valuation of the liability and, in particular, the impact of the introduction points liability of the new points expiry policy in the year.
Management was questioned on the consistency of the valuation approach adopted, the results of the actuarial review and the increased judgement due to the expiration policy.
The results of EYs audit procedures were also taken into account in reaching the conclusion that the liability is appropriately stated.
Impairment The Committee reviewed a management report outlining the approach taken on impairment testing and, in particular, testing the key assumptions and sensitivities supporting the conclusions on the various asset categories.
The impairments recorded in the year on two hotels in The Americas region and against an associate investment in AMEA see notes 12 and 14 were discussed in detail.
The Committee agreed with the conclusions reached on impairment.
Litigation At each meeting, the Committee considered a report detailing all material litigation matters and discussed and agreed any provisioning requirements for these matters based on the factors set out on page 99.
Exceptional items The Committee considered the consistency of the treatment and nature of items classied as exceptional over the last five years and discussed the items disclosed as exceptional and reviewed the calculations of the profits on disposal of the two significant assets sold in the year see note 11 considering, in particular, the valuation of the associated management contracts.
The Committee also discussed the disclosures in note 5 and concluded that the disclosures and the treatment of the items shown as exceptional were appropriate.
Acquisition of The Committee considered the work done to establish the fair value of the assets acquired.
The Committee questioned Kimpton Hotels the assumptions underlying the significant assets recognised and noted in this regard the report from a third-party & Restaurants valuation expert on the intangible assets.
EYs views on the fair values reported were also noted and the Committee concluded that the fair values recognised were appropriate.
Capitalisation of In forming a conclusion on the appropriateness of software capitalisation, the Committee considered the following: software projects GIA reporting on the project and programme management on GRS: a review of software assets from an impairment perspective: the conclusion from the SOX control testing in this area: and conclusions from EYs audit procedures.
The Committee concluded that capitalisation is adequately controlled and that the controls on impairment are appropriate.
place, which are explained in a Transparency Report issued by EY on Annual Report fair, balanced and understandable an annual basis.
To ensure EYs independence is safeguarded, lead A separate sub-committee meeting was held in February 2016 to audit partners rotate every five years.
This is the fifth year that the consider whether the Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 provided current audit partner has been in place and a new audit partner is a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Group with the being appointed for 2016 onwards.
necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Audit Committee The Committee continually reviews, and is satisfied with, the members provided comments on the content and considered: i the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the relationship with EY process for preparing and verifying the Annual Report, which included as the external Auditor, and with the external audit process as a whole.
review by members of the Executive Committee and input from senior colleagues in Operations, Strategy, HR, Finance, Risk and Legal: and Non-audit services ii a report from the Chair of the Disclosure Committee, which also EY provides non-audit services to the Group, which are governed, reviews the processes for preparing and verifying the Annual Report.
so as to safeguard their objectivity and independence, by IHGs Audit The Committee also considered managements analysis of how the and Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy.
content benchmarked against the fair, balanced and understandable The policy is re-approved by the Audit Committee annually, and, communication principles.
for the 2015 financial year, the policy was updated and approved at the December 2014 Audit Committee meeting.
Effectiveness of the Committee The policy requires that pre-approval is obtained from the Audit The effectiveness of the Committee is monitored and assessed Committee for all services before any work can be commenced, annually through evaluation questionnaires and interviews and, in line with US SEC requirements.
The Committee is prohibited in 2015, we continued to conclude that it is operating effectively.
from delegating non-audit services approval to management.
Compliance with the policy is actively managed and an analysis Our priorities for 2016 of audit and non-audit services is reviewed by the Committee During 2016, the Committee will continue to focus on the integrity at each meeting.
of the internal financial controls and risk management systems, The Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body guidelines IHGs information security arrangements and, in particular, the on non-audit fees.
During 2015, 29 per cent of services provided to the implementation of technology projects.
Group were non-audit services: these included areas such as advisory work and corporate tax compliance.
For fees paid to EY for non-audit Ian Dyson work during 2015, see page 106.
Audit Committee Chairman 22 February 2016 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 63
