Corporate Governance continued Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Our statement of compliance summarises how the Group has The Board considers that the Group has complied in all material implemented the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate respects with the Code for the year ended 31 December 2015 with Governance Code as published in 2014 the Code.
This should be the exception of Code provision C. 3.7, which requires external audit read in conjunction with the corporate governance statement on pages contracts to be put to tender at least every 10 years.
The Group has 52 to 65 and the Directors Remuneration Report as a whole.
The Code not re-tendered within that period, but the Audit Committee monitors is available to view in full on the Financial Reporting Council FRC this in line with legislation and the current Auditors performance website www.
further details are provided on pages 62 and 63.
1 The composition of the Board The Board leads IHGs strategic direction and the long-term objectives The size and composition of the Board and its Committees is regularly and success of the Group.
It approves strategic plans and capital and reviewed for the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence revenue budgets, and reviews significant investment proposals, and knowledge to ensure they can carry out their duties and maintaining an overview and control of IHGs operating and financial responsibilities effectively.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls Potential conicts of interest are reviewed annually and the Boards current and risk management, governance and compliance, considering regulatory composition meets the requirement under the Code for at least half of the changes and developments where appropriate, while ensuring that the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be Independent Non-Executive Directors necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to see page 54.
Further details of the composition of the Board and its meet its objectives.
Committees are available on pages 53 to 58.
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership and long-term Jennifer Laing has served on the Board for over nine years and will be strategic aims of the Group.
Details of those matters reserved for the stepping down following the Companys AGM to be held on Friday 6 May 2016.
Board and not delegated to management are available on our website The Nomination Committee has reviewed her independence and is satisfied at www.
com investors under corporate governance.
Directors that she continues to demonstrate independence in character and judgement biographies and the Board and Committee composition are set out and is independent as required under the Code.
The Board has also on pages 53 to 58. considered this and reached the same conclusion.
The Board meets formally eight times each year, with additional meetings B.
One of the meetings includes a strategy meeting.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Nomination Details of 2015 Board meetings are set out on pages 60 and 61.
The Nomination Committee leads the appointment of new attendance by Committee members at Committee meetings can be found Directors to the Board and senior executives in accordance with its terms on page 54. of reference available on our website at www.
com investors under All Directors are covered by the Groups directors and ofcers liability corporate governance committees or from the Company Secretarys ofce insurance policy see page 152. on request and supports the Board in succession planning.
Further details of the role of the Nomination Committee and what it did in 2015, including A.
2 Division of responsibilities details of the appointment process of Directors, are set out in the The separate roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer are clearly Nomination Committee Report on page 65.
The overall process of established.
appointment and removal of Directors is overseen by the Board as a whole.
Chief Executive officer Both Jennifer Laing and Ying Yeh have served on the Board for over six As Chief Executive officer, Richard Solomons leads the development of the years and will be stepping down following the Companys AGM.
In the Companys strategic direction and implementation of the agreed strategy.
interim, their appointments will continue to be subject to review and As well as building and leading an effective Executive Committee, he scrutiny by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
oversees IHGs business operations and manages its risks.
3 The Chairman The terms of appointment of our Non-Executive Directors outline the time As well as building and maintaining an effective Board, Patrick Cescau, commitment expected to full their role.
On appointment, Directors are as Chairman of the Board, leads the operation and governance of the Board advised of, and requested to make, the necessary time commitment required and its Committees.
This includes setting the Boards agenda and ensuring to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
IHGs Executive Directors are that Directors receive timely, accurate and clear information on the Groups not permitted to take on more than one external non-executive directorship business and that all Directors are fully informed of relevant matters.
or chairmanship in addition to their role.
Biographical details of all current The Chairman oversees corporate governance matters, ensuring they Directors, including their external commitments, can be found on pages 55 are addressed, and leads the performance and effectiveness evaluations to 57.
Richard Solomons has one non-executive directorship see page 55. of the Board, its Committees and the Directors.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
Details of Directors service contracts and appointment terms are set out on pages 73, 77 and 159.
4 Non-Executive Directors As a strong source of advice and judgement for IHG, our Non-Executive The Chairman annually reviews the time each Non-Executive Director has Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
dedicated to IHG as part of the internal performance evaluations of each They provide significant external commercial experience and a broad Director see page 60, and is satisfied that their other duties and time range of skills for the Board to draw on.
commitments do not conict with those as Directors.
4 Development As Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Dale Morrison is available A full, formal and tailored induction is developed for new Directors to liaise with shareholders who have concerns that they feel have not been see page 59. addressed through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive The Chairman and Company Secretary ensure that Directors continually officer and other Executive Directors.
He also leads the annual performance update their skills and have the requisite knowledge and familiarity with review of the Chairman with the other Non-Executive Directors, and as the Group to full their roles on the Board and its Committees see page necessary provides advice and judgement to the Chairman, and serves 59.
All Directors are encouraged to request further information as they as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
consider necessary to full their role.
After each Board meeting, our Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman meet without Executive Directors being present.
During the year, if any Director has unresolved concerns about the running of IHG or a proposed action, these would be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
Further information on each of these roles can be found on our website at www.
66 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION B.
5 Information and support The Board confirms that, in respect of the Groups risk management and The Chairman and the Company Secretary together ensure a good ow internal control systems: i there is an ongoing process for identifying, of information to the Board and its Committees and between the Executive evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: ii the Committee and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors receive the systems have been in place for 2015 and up to 22 February 2016: iii they are administrative and logistical support of a full-time board executive regularly reviewed by the Board and Audit Committee: and iv the systems assistant to ensure that each meeting is well organised.
The Company accord with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and Secretary also ensures that all Directors and Board Committees have related financial and business reporting.
Further details are set out in the access to independent advice and sufficient resources, at the expense Strategic Report on pages 25 to 27, and also in the Audit Committee Report of the Group when requested, and where it is necessary to discharge on pages 62 and 63. their responsibilities and statutory duties as Directors.
Details of the Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group are set The role of the Company Secretary out on pages 27.
George Turner, as Company Secretary, ensures a good ow of timely C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditor information to the Board and its Committees and between the Executive The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Committee and the Non-Executive Directors.
He facilitates all new Director Audit Committee.
The Committee comprises entirely Independent inductions.
He advises the Board on corporate governance matters and Non-Executive Directors, with at least one member having recent and keeps all Directors up to date on all relevant legal, regulatory and other relevant financial experience.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness developments.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary and independence of the relationship between Ernst & Young LLP and the is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Group annually and monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Global B.
Further details of its role, responsibilities and The Board undertakes either an internal or external annual Board activities in 2015 are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 62 and effectiveness evaluation to inform further enhancements to our Board 63.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on our website processes.
It was last carried out externally in 2013 and, in 2015, it was at www.
com investors under corporate governance committees.
carried out internally with external support.
Performance evaluations of Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in ofce all Directors, including the Chairman, are also carried out and the Board as Auditor of the Company and its reappointment will be put to shareholders considers the effectiveness of each of its Committees.
Further details can be found in the Audit Committee Report on further details.
7 Re-election The Companys amended Articles of Association, approved by our D. Remuneration shareholders on 28 May 2010 see page 152, provide that each Director D. 1 The level and components of remuneration is subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment and The activities of the Remuneration Committee during 2015, and the Annual re-election at least every three years if they wish to continue serving Report on Directors Remuneration and Implementation of the Directors in ofce.
Remuneration Policy, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on However, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code, the pages 68 to 77.
The Directors Remuneration Policy approved at our 2014 Directors retire and seek election or re-election at each AGM.
All of the AGM is available at www.
Directors biographies set out on pages 55 to 57 will retire and seek D. 2 Procedure election or other than Jennifer Laing and Ying Yeh re-election at the The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Remuneration 2016 AGM.
Committee including developing policy on executive remuneration and xing the remuneration packages of individual Directors.
Further information can C. Accountability be found in the Directors Remuneration Report see pages 68 to 77 and the C. 1 Financial and business reporting corporate governance statement see page 53.
Our Statement of Directors Responsibilities including the Boards The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found on statement conrming that it considers that the Annual Report and Form our website at www.
com investors under corporate governance 20-F, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides committees.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is set out on page 80.
During 2015, no individual Director was present when his or her own remuneration was discussed.
The status of IHG as a going concern is set out in the Directors Report on page 155.
An explanation of the Groups performance, business model, E. Relations with shareholders strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating to IHGs prospects, including the viability of the Group, is set out in the Strategic Report E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders on pages 2 to 49.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring a satisfactory dialogue takes place with all shareholders of the Company to promote mutual The statement from our Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, about its reporting understanding of objectives.
Further details of the Boards approach responsibilities is set out on pages 81 to 86. to relations with our shareholders are set out on page 61.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the nature The next AGM will take place on Friday 6 May 2016 and will provide and extent of the risk the organisation is willing to take in achieving an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group its strategic objectives.
The Notice of Meeting will be sent to shareholders and will The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks be available at www.
com investors under financial library.
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, The Chairman ensures where possible that all Board members, future performance, solvency or liquidity see pages 26 and 27 for further particularly the chairmen of each of the Board Committees, attend details of the principal risks.
The Board and Audit Committee monitor the the AGM and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
Groups risk management and internal controls systems and conduct an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
Throughout the year, the Board has directly, and through delegated authority to the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee, overseen and reviewed all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 67
