DIRECTORS REPORT Nomination Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Sir David Reid Chair of the Nomination Committee Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee during the year was as follows: Committee Members Number of meetings held in 2015 Eligible to attend Attendance Sir David Reid 4 4 Committee Chairman 1 Edward Astle 4 3 2 Christopher Knight 2 2 3 Dame Louise Makin 1 1 Michael Wareing 4 4 4 Mark Williams 2 2 DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to report on how the Nomination Committee 1.
E dward Astle was unable to attend one Committee Meeting due to an unavoidable commitment.
Committee has continued to undertake its role during 2.
Christopher Knight retired from the Committee on 15 May 2015.
Dame Louise Makin was appointed to the Committee on 1 December 2015.
Following the extensive work undertaken in 2014 to 4.
M ark Williams was appointed to the Committee on 15 May 2015. successfully fill the roles of the CEO and CFO, the Committees focus continued to be on succession planning and the review The Group Company Secretary attends all meetings of the of the composition of the Board and the Committees.
Following a rigorous selection process the Committee was pleased to recommend the appointment of Gill Rider to the MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Review the structure, size and composition of the Board Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 July 2015.
successful career in both the Non-Executive and Executive Identify, review and nominate candidates to fill worlds adds further valuable experience to our Board.
The Committee continues to ensure that the composition Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience of the Board retains the right balance of skills, experience, and diversity on the Board and Committees.
industry and technical knowledge and diversity to provide the Review the results of the performance evaluation process quality of leadership necessary to implement the strategy and that relate to the composition of the Board and achieve the strategic objectives necessary for the long-term Committees.
Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on 1.
N either the Chairman nor the CEO participates in the recruitment of their own successor.
I will be available at the forthcoming AGM to answer any questions on the work THE ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR of the Committee during the year.
Composition of the Board, the Committees and appointments In the first half of 2015 the Committee spent a significant amount of time considering the succession requirements of the Board and its Committees and subsequently overseeing the process which led to Gill Rider joining the Board as Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015.
The Committee considered a number of factors including the experience, competency and personal qualities that would be required for this position.
We also considered the current balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and whether the candidate would be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities.
We worked with the external search firm Egon Zehnder to identify suitable candidates.
We can confirm that they have no other connection to the Company apart from in relation to the 2015 Board evaluation and search consultancy services.
Gill Rider was deemed to be the most suitable candidate based on merit and her biography is available on page 57.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 83 Directors report Nomination Committee continued With the retirement of Christopher Knight at the 2015 AGM DIVERSITY ON THE BOARD each of the principal Committees was left with a vacancy.
The Board continues to endorse the recommendations made by This gave us the opportunity to appoint Mark Williams to the Lord Davies in his report issued in 2011 on Women on Boards Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee with and our policy of diversity is available at www.
To ensure compliance with the Code, The Committee is committed to achieving a Board which Mark acted as Interim Chair of the Remuneration Committee includes and makes the best use of differences in culture, until Gills appointment.
With effect from 1 July 2015, Alan gender, skills, background, regional and industry experience Brown moved from the Remuneration Committee and became as well as other qualities.
All of these factors are considered a member of the Audit & Risk Committee given his financial by the Committee in determining the composition of the Board background and experience in the industry.
Dame Louise Makin as outlined on the previous page.
With the appointment of was also appointed to the Nomination Committee with effect Gill Rider during the year, the Company has exceeded Lord from 1 December 2015.
Davies recommendation of 25% gender diversity ratio and now has 30% women on the Board.
Whilst the Boards wish Also during 2015, the Board, upon the recommendation is to maintain at least 25% female representation at Board of the Committee, took the decision to reappoint Dame Louise level, the need to ensure the progressive refreshing of the Makin and Lena Wilson CBE as Non-Executive Directors of the Board to maintain the correct balance of skills, knowledge Company for a further three years.
Where the reappointment and experience remains paramount.
of a member of the Committee is being discussed, they are precluded from any involvement in the discussions and the An analysis of the diversity of the Board by gender as at Senior Independent Non-Executive Director would chair 31December 2015 is provided below.
Details of our total the Committee when the reappointment of the Chairman workforce by gender can be found in the Sustainability is discussed.
Board of Directors Male Female 30% 70% SIR DAVID REID Chair of the Nomination Committee 84 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
