42 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance NORMAN BLACKWELL LORD BLACKWELL Chairman Dear Shareholder Following the significant development of the business over recent years, the Board has given particular focus this year to reviewing our overall strategy and assessing our risk appetite and risk profile.
Within this governance framework we aim to encourage entrepreneurial leadership, set the values and ethics by which we expect the business to operate, create a culture which fosters these standards of behaviour, monitor the operation of that culture and call to account those who do not abide by the standards that we set.
We have continued to build strong core businesses over the course of the year and grow in adjacent markets and geographies that draw upon our distinctive commercial skills.
Our success rests upon our ability to deliver outstanding service, innovation and increasingly importantly, sustainable solutions to our existing and potential customers.
This in turn depends on a motivated and well-trained workforce, supported by systems and processes that are strongly aligned with our values.
As we continue to expand our front-line service offering, our continued licence to operate relies increasingly on maintaining the trust and confidence of our wider stakeholder base.
Our SustainAbilities strategic initiative has continued to assist us in building stronger ties with the communities in which we work.
For shareholders our continued aim is to deliver a sustainable and growing business supporting a continued progressive dividend policy.
We therefore set ourselves stretching financial objectives while maintaining our prudent risk appetite.
Whilst we did not identify any significant gaps which would prevent our compliance with the requirements of the 2014 Corporate Governance Code, we have this year embarked upon a journey to enhance our risk management by the adoption of a risk and control framework and improving the quality and content of risk reporting from the Risk Committee.
The diversity and inclusion agenda and developing our talent pipeline continues to be an important element of our people strategy.
The quarterly HR reports to the Board include diversity measures, the Nomination Committee paid particular attention to diversity in its review of succession planning, and executive search firms which we engage across the business are instructed to provide diverse candidate lists as part of the external recruitment process for senior appointments.
We continue to monitor the diversity of participation in our leadership development programmes and have established a career coaching programme to focus on helping minority diversity groups to progress their careers.
Following my decision to stand down from the Board we established a sub-committee of the Nomination Committee under the leadership of Russell King which undertook an open and transparent recruitment process which facilitated the appointment of Glyn Barker.
He joined the Board at the start of this year and I am delighted that he will be succeeding me as Chairman on 1 March 2016.
Whilst we lost parity of numbers between the executive and non-executive directors for a period following Les Cullens retirement from the Board at the 2015 AGM, given the strength and independence of our non-executives, the open style of debate held by the Board and my observations of the way in which the Board functions, I am satisfied that there was an effective governance check maintained within the Board.
As was the case last year, all directors wishing to remain in office will seek re-election at the AGM.
Lord Blackwell Chairman OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 43 Board activities in the 2015 financial year COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Set out below are the key matters dealt with by the Board during The Financial Reporting Council the FRC requires the the course of the year, in addition to the ongoing monitoring of Company to disclose how it has applied the principles of the operational and financial performance of the Group: UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 the Code and whether there has been compliance with its setting the health and safety targets for the Group and provisions throughout the financial year.
In the case of nonmonitoring performance on a monthly basis: compliance, the Company must specify those provisions with reviewing the Groups strategic direction, governance, which it has not complied and give reasons for this.
The Code ethics, values and risk management.
In particular, the Board may be found on the FRC website www.
closely monitored the increased reputational risk arising from the expansion of the Groups front-line service The directors consider that the Company has complied delivery particularly in the healthcare sector: throughout the year with all provisions of the Code applicable ongoing monitoring of key contracts where outcomes could to it, save for provision B.
1.2 requiring at least half the board, impact financial performance with particular reference to excluding the Chairman, to comprise independent non-executive the ongoing Energy from Waste contracts being undertaken directors following the resignation of Les Cullen at the AGM on by the UK Construction business: 12 May 2015. considering capital investments and requests by the Whilst non-executive and executive parity was not achieved businesses for approval of significant tenders within the throughout the period, the Board was satisfied that it retained framework of matters reserved for the Boards decision: the appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge to careful consideration of the risk reward profile of the UK discharge its duties effectively and continued to operate with Construction businesss significant bids: good governance by virtue of the strength and independence of reviewing progress on a quarterly basis against the the non-executive directors.
The Boards open style of debate HR strategy: and the manner in which it functioned meant that no one reviewing legal risk management within the Group: individual or small group of individuals could dominate Board reviewing the progress of the Groups IT enhancement plans: decision making.
approving the establishment of a pension scheme for In view of Lord Blackwells announcement of his intention to overseas employees: step down as Group Chairman by no later than the 2016 AGM, considering the results of the employee survey: the Board considered it appropriate that any further review of establishing a risk management framework setting out its composition should be a matter for the incoming Chairman.
the risk management policy, risk oversight structures and accountability, risk identification and assessment, On 1 January 2016 Glyn Barker joined the Board as an escalation, monitoring and reporting and guidance on the independent non-executive director and Chairman-Designate application of the framework: and will become Group Chairman on 1 March 2016. conducting, in February and August, a robust assessment LEADERSHIP and ongoing monitoring of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business The Board model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Operation of the Board setting the Groups annual budget and plan: The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval of the annual and half-year report: decision, whilst day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the Executive Board, as referred to on page 46. satisfying itself as to the basis for and appropriateness of the going concern and viability statements: In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board has declaration of the interim dividend and recommendation of delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, details the final dividend: of which are set out later in this report.
From time to time the ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal Board also establishes certain other committees to deal with a controls and an effective risk management and assurance specific issue which the Board has approved.
strategy: and monitoring progress against the Groups SustainAbilities Plan.
The Board also undertook a visit to a number of the Groups Support Services contracts in the central London area.
44 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued The non-executive directors have complementary skills, Division of responsibilities experience and qualifications in a wide range of economic There is a clear division of responsibilities between the role sectors and so are able to bring independent judgement and of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive which are clearly constructive challenge to bear on matters for consideration.
defined in written terms of reference, agreed by the Board.
On 12 May 2015 Les Cullen retired as non-executive director, The role of the Chairman having completed a term of just over nine years.
Russell King The Group Chairman leads the Board and creates the conditions succeeded him as Senior Independent Director.
for overall Board and individual director effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
The Group Chairman regularly As at 31 December 2015 the Board comprised ten members: the considers succession planning and the Boards composition with Group Chairman, five executive and four non-executive directors.
the Nomination Committee and ensures effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman are required to confirm, on appointment, that they have sufficient time to The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, meet what is expected of them and to seek the committee sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that Board chairmans agreement, or in the case of the Group Chairman, members receive timely information and are briefed on the Senior Independent Directors agreement, before accepting issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making additional commitments that might impact upon the time they an effective contribution.
are able to devote to their role as a non-executive director of the Company.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive The role of the Chief Executive directors and the Group Chairman specify the anticipated level The Chief Executive manages the Group, leading the formulation of time commitment.
of and, once set by the Board, implementing strategy.
The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Board and Risk Committee, leads The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive the executive management team and investor communications directors and the Group Chairman are available for inspection at and is responsible for social and ethical matters within the Group.
the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
The role of the Senior Independent Director BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders should they have any concerns which contact through other Meetings channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and on be inappropriate.
He also acts as a sounding board for the an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are time-critical.
Group Chairman, serves as an intermediary for the other Attendance at Board and committee meetings is set out in the directors when necessary, conducts the Group Chairmans table below.
annual performance evaluation and leads any new Chairman appointment process.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 1 Number of meetings 16 6 9 5 The role of the Company Secretary Lord Blackwell 16 9 5 The Company Secretary distributes Board papers and other 2 information sufficiently far in advance of each meeting for the L G Cullen 9 2 4 3 directors to be properly briefed, presenting certain papers to S L Dance 14 the Board and its committees, advises on Board procedures and A K Fahy 16 6 9 5 ensures that the Board follows them.
T P Haywood 15 The Board papers include information from management on R J King 16 5 8 5 financial, business and corporate issues.
Matters requiring K L Ludeman 15 6 9 5 Board and committee approval are generally the subject of a B A Melizan 16 written proposal and circulated as part of the Board papers.
A M Ringrose 15 5 The Company Secretary plays a key role in the good governance N R Salmon 16 6 8 5 of the Company and in particular by supporting the Group Chairman on all Board matters pertaining to governance.
D I Sutherland 15 1 A further four sub-committee meetings comprising at least two nonNon-executive director independence and appointments executive directors were held in respect of the selection of proposed The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive candidates for the post of Group Chairman.
Lord Blackwell, the retiring directors on an annual basis as part of its nomination for Group Chairman, was not involved in the selection or appointment process of his successor and was not present at any of the sub-committee meetings.
The Group Chairman and the non-executive 2 Resigned on 12 May 2015. directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and free from any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 45 The Board also holds a strategy day in January each year The outcome of the evaluation was that: to review the strategic direction of the Group.
strategy was considered to be clear and well communicated both externally and internally, to have been effective in The Group Chairman held four formal sessions with the nonpositioning the Group for future growth and now afforded executive directors at part of which no executive directors were the Board the opportunity to review a range of options: present and a number of informal discussions both with and without the Chief Executive being present.
The non-executive an appropriate balance had been struck between operational directors also met once during the year, under the chairmanship and strategic matters: of the Senior Independent Director, without either the Group there was a desire for more collective visits to operating Chairman or the executive directors being present.
companies: the Group Chairman is unanimously viewed as effective at Board induction, training and development supporting open and constructive boardroom debate: On appointment, new directors receive a tailored induction the relationship between the executive and non-executive programme arranged by the Company Secretary which includes, directors was unanimously viewed as open and trusting: for example, refresher training on the duties of a listed company risk was considered to be appropriately addressed: director, the operation and activities of the Group, meetings the leadership style and management structures, HR with management and other corporate advisers, and operational policies and reward systems were considered to support site visits encompassing a representative cross-section of most the risk management and control systems, with an of the Groups UK operations accompanied by the executive appropriate balance of risk management and controls versus director responsible for that part of the Group.
entrepreneurial management: An ongoing programme of site visits, staff meetings and business development of the Group infrastructure was considered to presentations provides additional opportunities for the Group be appropriate for the changes in the business: Chairman and non-executive directors to visit various operations the Boards safety culture and values were judged to have of the Group and to receive insight and feedback from employees.
been well disseminated and the desired behaviours and values were embedded at all levels: Ongoing training and development needs of the directors is the Board needed to continue its focus on promoting reviewed by the Group Chairman and is discussed with each diversity throughout the Group: and director as part of the performance evaluation.
During the the Board continued to operate effectively.
year under review the non-executive directors have attended a number of seminars and or other non-executive forums relevant The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees carried to their roles.
out a self-evaluation of their performance against their terms of reference and also reviewed their terms of reference.
Performance evaluation During the course of the year the performance of the directors Information and support was reviewed by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive Individual directors may, after consultation with the Group and, in the case of the Chief Executive, by the Group Chairman, Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance of their having consulted with other directors.
The Group Chairmans duties at the Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in performance was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director relation to any one event.
In the case of the Group Chairman who met with each of the directors.
As part of this review he must consult with the Senior Independent Director.
process the Group Chairman met with the directors individually All directors have access to the advice and services of the to review performance and review and agree any development Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal is a matter and training needs.
reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly delegated committee thereof.
The overall time commitment of the non-executive directors in the attendance of Board meetings visits was in the order of Election and re-election 18 days in addition to the time taken to read Board papers and Glyn Barker will submit himself for election by shareholders attendance at four meetings held by the Group Chairman.
at the AGM on 10 May 2016 in accordance with the In compliance with the Code, the Board carries out an externally Companys Articles of Association.
With the exception of facilitated evaluation of its performance every three years.
Lord Blackwell, who will be standing down as Group Chairman This was last conducted in 2013.
In 2015 the Board conducted on 29 February 2016, all the remaining directors will submit an internal evaluation of its performance using a questionnaire themselves for re-election at the AGM.
designed by the Group Chairman and the Company Secretary Biographical details for each of the directors standing for which was distributed to the directors for completion.
election or re-election are set out on pages 38 to 40.
46 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued The Committee carefully assessed each directors appointments EXECUTIVE BOARD on other boards against the specific criteria set out in such The Executive Board, which, during the year, comprised the guidelines.
It concluded that each directors time commitment executive directors together with Trevor Bradbury Group is sufficiently balanced against their other board appointments Company Secretary, George Franks Managing Director and that their other directorships served to provide valuable of Interserve International, Robin OKelly Director of experience and knowledge for the Group.
Communications, Ian Renhard Managing Director of UK Construction and Catherine Ward Group Director of In order that the Group Chairman should not be involved in Human Resources, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
the appointment of his successor, a sub-committee of the Committee, comprising the non-executive directors under The Executive Board, which met 11 times during the course of the chairmanship of Russell King, was appointed in April 2015 the year, is responsible for the operational management and to identify nominee s to the Board for appointment as delivery against budget and forecast of the Group, implementing Group Chairman.
resolutions of the Board, formulation of strategy, annual budgets and other proposals for consideration by the Board, A candidate specification setting out the qualification the identification and evaluation for consideration by the Board and experience, leadership and management behavioural of risks faced by the Group and for designing, operating and competences, and personal characteristics, was drawn up by monitoring a suitable system of internal control embracing the the sub-committee and agreed with the Board.
An indicative policies adopted by the Board and providing assurance to the timetable was also agreed with a view to the sub-committee Board that it has done so.
It is also responsible for devising being in a position to make a recommendation to the Board and, once approved by the Board, implementing suitable towards the end of 2015 to afford the chosen candidate an policies and monitoring procedures for health and safety, appropriate induction period prior to their assuming the role environmental, social and ethical, treasury, human resources of Group Chairman at some point during the first half of 2016. and information technology.
Discussions were held with five executive selection firms from AUDIT COMMITTEE which three were selected to make presentations to the subDetails of the Audit Committee are included in the Audit committee.
Following these presentations Egon Zehnder EZ Committee Report on pages 51 to 55 and are incorporated was selected for the appointment.
into this Corporate Governance report by reference.
As part of the selection brief EZ was charged with compiling a NOMINATION COMMITTEE diverse and long list of potential candidates, which was then reduced to a shortlist based upon availability and interest in The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman the position.
It was then further refined, following a number of and the majority of the members are independent nonface-to-face meetings, to two potential candidates, from which executive directors.
External consultants are used for new the Board selected Glyn Barker.
The Committee keeps the Board structure, size and composition, balance of skills and knowledge and There is no other connection between EZ and the Company.
experience both executive and non-executive under review and makes recommendations for any changes to the Board.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors The Committees terms of reference set out clearly its authority is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages and duties, and are available on the Companys website at 56 to 79. www.
In November the Committee also undertook its annual talent Overview of activities review and review of executive director and senior management Business conducted during the year included recommendations succession planning covering a total of 775 employees to the Board for the re-election of retiring directors at the AGM, comprising the Executive Board and the two levels below.
selecting a candidate for recommendation to the Board for Consideration was also given to the diversity ethnicity and appointment as Group Chairman, reviewing the Board structure gender and the age profile of the workforce down to two levels and composition and senior management succession and below the Executive Board.
development up to and including those at Board level, and Board succession planning.
The effectiveness of the Committee and its Diversity at senior level terms of reference were also reviewed.
The Groups Diversity Policy states that diversity in all its forms is fundamental to the Groups business.
It is available on the In making its recommendation to the Board for the re-election website at www.
The goal is of directors, the Committee gave consideration to proxy voting to recruit, motivate, develop and retain outstanding people guidelines issued by various governance research and advisory that reflect the diversity of the communities in which the organisations concerning the time commitment of the nonGroup operates.
executive directors and directorships on other boards.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 47 The Board monitors the extent to which the Group is meeting Recently initiated activities include: this objective and is committed to taking action where the establishment of an Inclusion in Interserve network as a necessary or helpful to promote equal opportunity.
platform to raise awareness and understanding of practices of inclusion across different diversity groups: The success in developing the diversity of the Board is monitored as part of our annual evaluation of Board effectiveness.
establishing a Career Coaching Programme to focus on helping minority diversity groups to progress their careers: We would expect our diversity policy to lead to greater diversity improvement of maternity benefits to help with the on the Board and divisional boards over time.
We have also set retention of female talent: and ourselves the target of having boards that better reflect the working with Leonard Cheshires Change 100 programme diversity of our business by the end of 2016 and are tracking supporting talented young people with disabilities to earn a wider diversity measures against this goal.
Diversity and inclusion Further information on progress made with wider employee We continue to take steps to improve not only the diversity diversity matters can be found in the Strategic Report on of our senior level roles but also our talent pipeline and our page 26. organisations culture of inclusion.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In 2015 we committed to attaining the National Equality The Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of Standard fines accreditation for our UK operations.
The fines independent non-executive directors, details of whom is supported by Ernst and Young, which conducted an in-depth are set out in the table on page 44.
The responsibilities of review against the fines criteria which identified that we are the Committee, together with an explanation of the work close to meeting the required standards, and a programme is undertaken and how it applies the directors remuneration underway to deliver full accreditation.
principles of the Code, are set out in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 79 and Ongoing activities include: are incorporated by reference into this Corporate our Group talent and succession process for the top 300 Governance report.
managers, an element of which involves reviewing and OTHER BOARD COMMITTEES monitoring progress of female and black, asian and minority ethnic talent: The Conflicts Committee comprises the Group Chairman or, in ongoing monitoring of all appointments by gender and the event that he is interested in the matter to be considered, ethnicity for roles at 75,000 per annum and above: the Senior Independent Director, and the Company Secretary.
executive search firms being instructed to provide diverse The General Purposes Committee comprises any two executive shortlists as part of external recruitment for senior directors one of whom must be the Chief Executive or, in his appointments: absence, the Group Finance Director.
the inclusion of data monitoring the diversity mix across the Group within the HR data-set presented to the Executive The Inside Information Committee comprises the Group Board and the Board on a quarterly basis: Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
monitoring the diversity of participant nominations to senior leadership development programmes to ensure female and The Private Finance Initiative PFI Committee comprises any black, asian and minority ethnic representation on each two or more directors.
course: Each committee has written terms of reference and reports on providing diversity and inclusion awareness training including the business conducted to the following Board meeting.
Unconscious Bias awareness to divisional board level and relevant management groups: Committee meetings held during the year are as follows: holding Women in Interserve WiN events to continue to enable women working within the organisation to lift Committee Number of meetings their visibility and profile, and to provide development Conflicts 1 opportunities: and General Purposes 40 running a Mentoring Coaching programme for women across Inside Information the organisation, in conjunction with WiN.
PFI 1 48 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Key decisions are reserved by the Board to itself.
Other ACCOUNTABIITY decisions are taken under various delegated authorities Financial and business disclosures down through the management chain.
In order to present a balanced assessment of the Companys position and prospects, the Annual Report contains a Directors The Executive Board, under delegated responsibility from Responsibility Statement on page 87, an Independent Auditors the Board, identifies, assesses, manages and monitors risk Report about their reporting responsibilities on pages 90 to 97, and operates and monitors the system of internal control and a going concern statement on pages 33 and 34 and a viability provides assurance to the Board that it has done so.
The Risk statement on page 34.
An explanation of the Companys business Committee assists the Executive Board in discharging its risk model and strategy for delivering the Companys objectives is management responsibilities.
set out on pages 10 and 11, and 6 and 7, respectively.
The Risk Committee, comprising the Chief Executive, Group The Directors Report contained on pages 80 to 86, of which Finance Director, Group Health, Safety and Environmental this Corporate Governance report forms part, contains the Manager, Group Insurance Manager, the Group Company information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i Secretary who is its secretary, the Group General Counsel, the of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Chief Information Officer, the Group Information Security Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended Officer and a representative from each of the Groups operating by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors divisions, met five times during the course of the year.
The Report Regulations 2013 and The Large and Medium-sized internal audit partner has a standing invitation to attend.
The Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Committee has written terms of reference and provides copies Regulations 2013. of its meeting minutes to the Board.
Risk management and internal control Work undertaken by the Risk Committee included reviewing the 2 Groups prime risk areas and principal risks and uncertainties, The Board has documented a risk management framework which providing a bi-annual risk and control report to the Executive is included within the Groups internal controls manual.
Board, commissioning an assurance map mapping the three The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal lines of assurance management, functional oversight and 1 risks facing the Group, as required by the Code, together with independent internal reporting in respect of each of the a review of effectiveness of the Groups risk management and Boards key risks, receiving reports from the Information internal control systems, including operational and financial Security Forum, regular horizon scanning for risks presented controls during the period covered by this report and has not by legal developments and forthcoming legislation, reviewing identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which business continuity planning, reviewing whistleblowing it determines to be significant.
notifications and the results of subsequent investigations, reviewing proposed tender authorities for newly-formed Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system businesses in the Middle East and an annual review and update of internal control, the Groups system of internal control is of key policies and procedures.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, Risk oversight, structures and accountability but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or The risk and control framework is predicated on the basis that loss.
The Groups governance framework distinguishes between line management is best placed to ensure that appropriate entities which are wholly controlled and joint ventures and risk management is being exercised to maintain risk within the associate companies in which the Group does not have overall constraints of the Boards risk appetite.
For these joint ventures and associate companies, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the The risk oversight structure mirrors the operating style and Group and the other joint-venture parties or members of the culture of the Group, devolving responsibility for operational associate company, as the case may be.
risk mitigation controls to those best placed to supervise and ensure their proper implementation.
Divisional line management Risk management framework exercise oversight to manage risk appropriately and to ensure The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems that the Boards risk appetite is not being exceeded.
of risk management and internal controls, together with the The Boards risk appetite is cascaded throughout the Group ongoing review of its effectiveness and sets appropriate policies indirectly by defined delegated decision boundaries and having regard to the objectives of the Group.
Certain key areas listed on pages 28 to 30 are subject to central management or control.
1 Further details of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, their potential to affect the business, how they are being mitigated and changes in the current risk environment are set out in the Strategic Report, on pages 28 to 30.
2 The Groups prime risk areas are sub-sets of and have been mapped to the Principal Risk and Uncertainties set out on pages 28 to 30 of the Strategic Report and are matters which, if not appropriately managed, may to lead to events which breach the Boards risk appetite.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 49 Best practice, procedure and, where appropriate, policies in the The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and areas of information security, business continuity and HR, are managing principal risks that the Group faces, together with an promulgated by specialist forums comprised of subject matter ongoing process to embed internal control and risk management experts from across the business.
This process was in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of this Risk identification and assessment Annual Report and Financial Statements and the systems accord As a normal part of Board and Strategy Day business, the Board with the FRCs guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control considers any emerging or changing risks and whether these and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Control effectiveness A thorough risk identification and assessment exercise is Divisional boards undertake an ongoing assessment of and undertaken of the prime risk areas by the Risk Committee on a effect improvements to the control environment and report six-monthly basis.
This review focuses on risks with the potential their actions through the bi-annual risk review process.
for material impact on the Groups operational, financial or reputational standing.
The review takes into account the latest The Internal Audit function assesses the effectiveness of divisional updates, actions taken, current performance against certain internal control and risk management procedures existing and any new key performance indicators and whether, as part of its annual work programme.
as a result of the foregoing, the residual net risk of the prime Recent enhancements to the risk management process include risk area has changed since the last assessment.
the development of an assurance map which identifies the The identification of risks associated with new business, and three lines of assurance management, functional oversight associated risk controls mitigation is part of the process for and independent over the prime risk areas.
This enables the obtaining Board approval.
Board to make an informed assessment of the appropriateness of assurance.
New and emerging risks are captured by divisional risk committee bi-annual risk reviews which are consolidated into Financial reporting the risk review undertaken by the Risk Committee.
The Board Based on submissions from the trading divisions, a budget also gives consideration to emerging risks as part of its is prepared by the Group for approval by the Board before bi-annual risk review and more generally as part of its ongoing the start of each financial year.
Subsequently, forecasts of consideration of the future development of the Group.
prospective financial performance are prepared as at the end of March, May and September of each year.
Budgets and forecasts Escalating, reporting, monitoring and review include the financial results, financial position and cash flows for Monthly management accounts, divisional board meetings, each division and Group Services.
the March, May and September forecast reviews, monthly and quarterly safety and quarterly legal and insurance reports all The Group has risk management systems and documented provide an opportunity for emerging risks to be escalated.
accounting policies and procedures to be applied by all entities in the Group in submitting their financial statements for Divisional boards are required bi-annually to review their risk consolidation to ensure that adequate accounting records are matrices, in February and July, to facilitate aggregation ahead maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly of the release of the annual and half-year results.
to permit the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Divisional management monitor the implementation, operation and efficacy of the risk management procedures within their Each month, every entity within the Group submits management division.
Improvements implemented by divisional management accounts in local currency to the Group Finance team.
The are reported as part of the bi-annual risk reviews.
consolidated management accounts include the financial results, financial position, cash flows and projections and are submitted, The Executive Board and the Board monitor risk as part of their along with analytical commentary, to the Executive Board and monthly review of trading.
subsequently the Board for review.
The Internal Audit function also undertakes a rolling review of The management accounts submitted by members of the Group the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management for June and December are used to prepare the half-yearly and procedures as part of its annual work programme.
The Group Finance team reviews the disclosures in the financial statements to ensure that they The Board performs a formal assessment of the effectiveness of comply with applicable reporting standards.
The half-yearly the risk management process twice a year prior to publication and annual financial statements are reviewed by the Executive of the half-year and full-year results, taking into account the Board, the Audit Committee and the Board before publication.
reviews undertaken by the Risk Committee and Executive Board.
50 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued The financial reporting process is reviewed periodically by The Company encourages two-way communication with both internal audit in accordance with the programme approved institutional and private investors to develop an understanding by the Audit Committee each year.
of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
Adrian Ringrose and Tim Haywood attended 23 meetings A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups with analysts and institutional investors during the year business is given on page 33 and a description of how the Group ended 31 December 2015 and, respectively, 14 and 39 manages those risks is set out on page 30. individual meetings accompanied either by the Companys broker or another member of staff.
Operational controls One-to-one meetings held with shareholders focus on such The principal features of the Groups system of operational matters as Group strategy, operational performance, market control are: trends, macro-economic influences, financial performance, An established management structure comprising the Board merger and acquisition ambitions, peer group issues, the with its various committees and an Executive Board.
political environment and progress of key bids and key Executive Board and Board review of the monthly finance contract renewals.
One-to-one and group meetings held with analysts focus on the Documented delegated authority limits which are kept above issues and, in addition, the key factors which influence under regular review.
Larger value proposals and business analysts financial forecasts, with a view to ensuring market acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
consensus is based on accurate and up-to-date information, All Group companies operate detailed tendering procedures properly interpreted.
designed to ensure effective risk management when tendering for high-value projects or projects with difficult Having due regard to their importance as stakeholders, we also conditions, onerous obligations, guarantees, bonds and undertake regular one-to-one meetings and group presentations adverse cash flow conditions which are monitored by the with our bank and private-placement lenders, in which relevant Executive Board member and, where appropriate, in operational, strategic and market issues are discussed, together conjunction with the Chief Executive.
with the implications for our future financing requirements.
Manuals setting out Group policy and procedures, with which all Group companies must comply.
The Groups annual and half-yearly results, trading updates, The Group has certain key areas which are subject to central presentations given to analysts and all announcements made management or control, which include health, safety and through the RIS are published on the Companys website at environmental policies, legal, insurance, tax and treasury, www.
real estate, internal and external communication, investor All shareholders are given at least 21 clear days notice of the relations, information technology network services and operating systems, human resources, motor fleet and AGM.
It is standard practice for all directors to attend the AGM company secretarial.
These functions report to members of to which all shareholders are invited and at which they may the Executive Board.
put questions to the chairmen of the various committees or the Board generally.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, One or more members of the Executive Board and, in many as well as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group Finance form accompanying the notice of AGM are counted before the Director, attend divisional board meetings.
AGM commences and are made available to shareholders at the During the course of each year members of the Executive close of the formal business of the meeting.
The proxy votes are Board or other senior operational and financial management also announced through the RIS and posted on the Companys visit or review all trading companies to discuss and monitor website shortly after the close of the meeting.
the performance of those businesses.
The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy which sets APPROVAL out a framework for dealing with any allegations of fraud, This report was approved by the Board of Directors on financial misreporting and any whistleblowing notification.
24 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: A copy of the policy is available on the Companys website at www.
RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS Lord Blackwell The main communications with financial investors are the halfChairman year and full-year results presentations.
These presentations are 24 February 2016 posted on our website and are available for all investors to view, along with a recording of the presentations themselves.
