Directors report Corporate governance COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company has complied with the main and supporting principles and provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, except for provision B.
3.3. for the period from 14 January to 15 May 2015.
Further details can be found on page 52.
From 16 May 2015 to the date of this Report the Company fully complied with the Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
1 Role of the Board The Board meets formally on a regular basis in order to formulate Interteks strategy and commercial objectives and to review the Companys performance and strategy against set objectives, whilst ensuring the necessary finances and human resources are in place.
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board as detailed on our website at www.
2 A c lear division The Company has both a Chairman, who is responsible for the of responsibilities leadership and effectiveness of the Board, and a Chief Executive Officer who is responsible for leading the day-to-day management of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
3 Role of the Chairman The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings ensuring adequate discussion time especially on strategy, planning and execution, manages the meeting timetable and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings.
4 R ole of the The Non-Executive Directors actively engage and monitor Non-Executive Directors performance and help to develop proposals on strategy.
They are responsible for determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and have a prime role in appointing Executive Directors and in succession planning.
1 The Boards composition The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate mix of skills, experience, independence, knowledge, gender and other qualities.
2 Board appointments The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination Committee.
The appointment process is clear, rigorous and transparent.
Further details of the appointments undertaken during the year and succession planning can be found on page 83.
3 Commitment The time commitments of Non-Executive Directors are defined on appointment and regularly evaluated.
In practice, the time commitments go beyond those set out in the Letters of Appointment.
The Chairman gives consideration to new directorships that may impact existing time commitments.
4 T raining and A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new development Directors.
The Chairman reviews and discusses training and development requirements with each of the Directors.
Directors attend relevant training as necessary to update their knowledge.
5 Information The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Company Secretary, and support ensures that all Board members receive timely, accurate and effective information using the latest technology.
6 B oard, Director and An externally facilitated evaluation was undertaken at the end of Committee evaluation 2015 by Egon Zehnder and is described on pages 60 and 61.
7 Re-election of Directors All Directors were subject to shareholder re-election or election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM, as will be the case at the 2016 AGM, with the exception of Edward Astle, who is retiring.
The Directors biographies are available on pages 56 and 57.
54 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE C. ACCOUNTABILITYC.
1 Financial and The Annual Report and Accounts sets out the performance business reporting of the Company, the business model, strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating to the Company.
The Board have arrangements in place to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
C. 2 Risk management The Board sets the Companys risk appetite to achieve its strategic and internal control objectives and annually reviews the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit & Risk Committee, which assist the Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk setting and management, are set out on page 78 and 79.
The Companys long-term viability statement is also set out on page 39.
C. 3 A udit Committee and The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit auditing & Risk Committee, which has oversight of the risk management framework on behalf of the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee provides regular reports to the Board.
D. REMUNERATION D. 1 T he level and The levels of remuneration of the Executive Directors, and how this components of promotes the long-term success of the Company, together with an remuneration alignment of interests between the Directors and shareholders by linking reward to performance, are explained in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 63 to 77.
D. 2 Development of The activities of the Remuneration Committee, and the way in remuneration policy which it sets executive remuneration, are set out in the Directors and packages Remuneration report on pages 63 to 77.
No Director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration.
E. RELATIONS WITH E. 1 Shareholder engagement The Board seeks to actively engage with both institutional and retail SHAREHOLDERS and dialogue shareholders.
Details of the shareholder engagement programme are set out on page 62.
E. 2 Constructive use The Board values the AGM as an important opportunity to engage of the AGM with shareholders.
Attendees at the AGM have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors following the formal business of the meeting.
Compliance with the Code A fuller explanation of our compliance with the Code can be found at www.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 55
