Directors report Board of Directors COMMITTEES: N Nomination A Audit & Risk R Remuneration N SIR DAVID REID EDWARD LEIGH Chairman Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board in December 2011 Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial and became Chairman in January 2012.
He joined Intertek Sir David Reid retired as Non-Executive in March 2013 as the Groups Financial Chairman of Tesco PLC in November 2011 Controller.
Prior to that, Edward spent nine after serving in that role since April 2004. years at Dixons Retail plc, where he held Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of several senior financial management Tesco PLC and had served on the Tesco positions, including Divisional & Corporate Board since 1985.
David is Chairman of the Development Finance Director, UK & Ireland charity Whizz-Kidz.
In February 2012 he was CFO and Group Financial Controller.
From appointed a member of the Global Senior 1995 to 2004 Edward held commercial Advisory Board of Jefferies International financial leadership roles at Procter & Limited, a global securities and investment Gamble Co. covering the UK and banking group.
He was formerly the Senior international markets.
Independent Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier Group PLC now RELX Group, Chairman of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, NonExecutive Director at Greenalls Group Plc now fide Vere Group, Legal & General Group Plc and Westbury plc.
N A EDWARD ASTLE Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September 2009.
Until July 2013, he was Pro Rector Enterprise at Imperial College London where he had overseen the ANDRE LACROIX universitys relationships with industry, and Chief Executive Officer led business development opportunities in Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive the UK and internationally.
Edward was an Officer in May 2015.
Andr is an Executive Director of National Grid plc from experienced Chief Executive with a strong 2001 to 2008, a Managing Director at the track record of delivering long-term growth BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 and an strategies and shareholder value with global Executive and Regional Director at Cable companies across diverse territories.
Andr & Wireless plc from 1989 to 1997.
Previously was previously Group Chief Executive of he held senior business strategy positions Inchcape plc from 2005 to 2015 and prior to in the UK and France.
He is a member of this he was Chairman and Chief Executive the BT Equality of Access Board, a member Officer of Euro Disney S. C. A.
From 1996 to of the Governing Board of the University 2003 he was the President of Burger King of Manchester and Vice Chair of the International, previously part of Diageo.
Andr is currently the Senior Independent Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Chairman of Good Restaurants AG.
56 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT A R N R ALAN BROWN GILL RIDER CB MARK WILLIAMS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
He is currently Group Director in July 2015.
She currently holds Director in September 2013.
Until February Chief Executive Officer of ASCO Global, non-executive directorships with Pennon 2013, Dr. Mark Williams worked for over an international oilfield support services Group Plc, where she chairs the 33 years at Royal Dutch Shell Plc Shell, business.
Alan was Chief Executive Officer Sustainability Committee and Charles Taylor including more than 21 years in Shells of Rentokil Initial plc for five years until Plc where she chairs their Remuneration Exploration & Production and midstream October 2013.
He spent 25 years at Unilever Committee.
She is the Senior Independent businesses in the US, serving most recently PLC where he rose through a variety of Director at both.
Gill is also the Chair as Downstream Director and a member of finance roles in the UK and Europe and then of Council Board of the University the Executive Committee of Shell, where he general management in Taiwan and China.
of Southampton and was the President was one of the top three operating His last four years were as Executive of the Chartered Institute of Personnel executives responsible for all strategic, Chairman of Unilever China.
Following this, & Development for the last five years.
Mark has Alan returned to the UK as Chief Financial Formerly Gill was head of the Civil Service held Board positions on non-profit and Officer at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC Capability Group in the Cabinet Office industry Boards and is currently Chairman taking a leading role in the divestment of reporting to the Cabinet Secretary and prior of Hess Corporation in the US.
to that held a number of senior positions with Accenture culminating in the post of Chief Leadership Officer for the global firm.
She was previously a Non-Executive Director of fide La Rue plc.
A LENA WILSON CBE N R DAME LOUISE MAKIN Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2012.
She is currently Chief Director in July 2012.
Dame Louise Makin is Executive Officer of Scottish Enterprise, N A MICHAEL WAREING CMG currently Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, Scotlands national economic development a growing international specialist healthcare Senior Independent agency, a member of Scotlands Financial company, a position she has held since Non-Executive Director Services Advisory Board and Chair of 2004.
Before joining BTG, Louise was at Scotlands Energy Jobs Taskforce.
Prior Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Baxter Healthcare from 2000, holding the Director in April 2011.
He is currently the to this, she was Chief Executive Officer roles of Vice President, Strategy & Business of Scottish Development International Senior Independent Director and Audit Development Europe, and from 2001, Committee Chairman at Cobham plc and Scotlands international trade and President of the Biopharmaceuticals division, investment arm and Chief Operating was previously a Non-Executive Director and where she was responsible for Europe, Audit Committee Chairman at Wolseley plc.
Lena was Africa and the Middle East.
Prior to her time also a Senior Advisor to The World Bank Michael was appointed as the Economic at Baxter, she was Director of Global Development Advisor to the Government of in Washington DC on private sector Ceramics at English China Clay and held a development for developing countries.
He has major variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and international and board level knowledge Lena is a member of the University of 1998.
Louise is a Trustee of The Outward Strathclydes Business Advisory Board, gained during an extensive global career up Bound Trust, an Honorary Fellow of to senior partner level at KPMG, where his and an Ambassador for the Prince and St Johns College Cambridge, and a NonPrincess of Wales Hospice and the last position was as International Chief Executive Director of Woodford Patient Executive Officer, which he occupied for Edinburgh Military Tattoo.
She served Capital Trust plc.
She was previously a Nonon the Board of the Princes Scottish four years until 2009.
He was previously the Executive Director of Premier Foods plc.
Prime Ministers Special Envoy for Youth Business Trust for ten years.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 57 Directors report Corporate governance continued The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, Leadership independent and external insight to the Boards proceedings THE ROLE OF THE BOARD and bring with them a wealth of experience and knowledge The Board is collectively responsible and accountable from other business sectors and industries.
The Board has to shareholders for providing entrepreneurial leadership reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, of the Company to ensure that the strategic aims and other than the Chairman, in accordance with the factors set financial performance are delivered within a prudent out for consideration in the Code and determined that each framework of control systems.
It spends time reviewing continues to be independent.
the following key activities: Experience of the Board Strategy: Growth and development: Finance Oversight of performance: Corporate governance: and Government Services Increasing long-term shareholder value.
Industries The Board also reviews and approves the method and approach to risk management and internal control systems and International the Groups risk register.
The overall powers of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are Listed Company available on the Companys website and may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board may exercise Risk Management all powers conferred on it by the Articles in accordance with Individual board member with experience in sector the Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
Where a Director is considered to have experience in multiple sectors, they have been The Board has the ultimate responsibility to the Companys recognised in all relevant areas.
shareholders for the conduct of our business and also The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified establishes the Companys policies.
There is a clear division terms subject to election and re-election by shareholders at of responsibility between the running of the Board and the the AGM each year, if the Board, on the recommendation of executive responsibility for running the Companys business.
the Nomination Committee deems it appropriate that they The Board Approval Matrix formally outlines the matters remain in office.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive specifically requiring the consent of the full Board.
The Board Director is subject to a particularly rigorous review to ensure the also delegates specific responsibilities, subject to certain progressive refreshing of the Board to meet the evolving needs financial limits, to management and this is governed by the of the Company.
The Letters of Appointment of the NonAuthorities Cascade which is regularly reviewed and updated Executive Directors, as well as the Service Agreements of to meet business needs.
The Board decides and reviews all key Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the policies and regulations for the Company, its strategy, operating Companys registered office and at the AGM.
plans, acquisitions, corporate governance, major investments and disposals, appointment and removal of Directors, risk management, financial reporting, audit, sustainability, ethics, the environment, people policies and pensions.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of individual Directors are set out on pages 56 and 57.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and its Committees and assessing whether the balance of skill, experience, independence and knowledge is appropriate to enable them to operate effectively.
Following the retirement of Christopher Knight on 15 May 2015 the Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its Committees and recommended the appointment of Gill Rider as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015.
More detail on the procedure for appointments can be found in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 83.
58 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY In line with the Code there is a clear division of responsibilities The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in the between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, and delivery of our Board and governance procedures, in particular these responsibilities have been formalised in writing.
Their in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board and key responsibilities are set out below: Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is made available to the Board members on a timely basis.
She also arranges for the Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors Role Name Responsibility to discuss aspects of our corporate governance arrangements Chairman Sir David Reid Leadership and governance on request.
of the Board to ensure its effectiveness.
The Group Company Secretary also supports the Board by Ensure that the Directors providing advice and services, including access to independent receive accurate, timely professional advice, at the Groups expense, and ensures that and clear information.
an accurate record of all the meetings and Committee meetings Ensure that there is is taken.
If a member of the Board has any concerns about the effective communication Company or any of the decisions taken, this would be recorded with shareholders.
No such concerns were raised during the year.
Facilitate the effective contribution to the Board of The Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent the Non-Executive Directors.
permitted by law, to each of the Directors and the Group Hold meetings with the NonCompany Secretary.
Directors and Officers liability insurance Executive Directors without is in place.
Chief Wolfhart Run the day-to-day operation DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Executive Hauser Retired of the business in line with Under the Companies Act 2006 all Directors have a duty Officer 15 May 2015 the strategy and commercial to avoid conflicts of interest and to disclose any outside objectives as agreed by appointments.
The Board has a formal procedure to identify the Board.
actual and potential conflicts of Directors interests.
The Andr Lacroix Responsible for promoting Directors are advised of the process for dealing with conflicts Appointed and conducting the affairs of of interest upon appointment and they are reminded of this 16 May 2015 the Company with the highest obligation at subsequent Board meetings.
standards of ethics, integrity and corporate governance.
Any authorised decisions are reviewed on an annual basis or Lead the Executive when a new Director is appointed, or if a new potential conflict Management Team.
The Conflicts of Interest Register is maintained by the Group Company Secretary and is reviewed annually by the Board.
Directors abstain from voting when there is a vote to Senior Michael Provide a sounding board approve their own reported conflicts.
In 2015, this process Independent Wareing for the Chairman.
Non-Executive Responsible for leading the Director Directors review of the Chairmans performance.
Be available to meet with shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through normal channels.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 59 Directors report Corporate governance continued Effectiveness Board visit to Chicago USA In October 2015, the Board visited the Intertek operations BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR in Chicago.
During 2015, there were six scheduled Board meetings.
There was also frequent ad-hoc contact between Directors to discuss This provided an excellent opportunity for the Board to the Groups affairs and development of its business.
A table of meet with the US management and to visit sites.
The local Directors attendance at Board meetings during the year is set management team presented on the drivers of the local out below.
Details of the Directors Committee attendance are operations and businesses and opportunities in the region.
set out in their respective reports.
There was also time for informal interaction between the Board and senior management after the meetings.
Regular agenda items included: Updates on Group strategy and commercial objectives: DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Chief Executives Business Performance Reports: There is a formal induction programme which is tailored 2015 annual business budget: to meet the needs of new Directors.
This is managed by Approval of full year results, Annual Report and Accounts, the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary.
During half year results, the AGM circular and dividends: the programme, new Directors receive background information Reports of the activities of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration on the Company and details of board procedures, directors and Nomination Committees: responsibilities and various governance related issues.
Reappointment of Directors at the 2015 AGM: The induction also includes a series of meetings with other Conflicts of interest: members of the Board, senior members of management Updates on governance, risk, internal controls and compliance: and external advisers.
Updates on developments, acquisitions and disposals: and During the year Andr Lacroix and Gill Rider completed Talent mapping and succession planning.
their induction programmes including orientation from the The Non-Executive Directors also receive monthly Business relevant senior executives in relation to each of the business Performance Reports and information which enables them lines and other functions to ensure that they gain a deeper to review the performance of the Group and management understanding and knowledge of the business.
They received against the agreed strategy, budget objectives and prior period information about the business operations, internal audit performance.
As well as the above, during the year the Board activities, Group risks and management processes and receive updates on debt financing and investor relations.
Both conducted visits to various sites and laboratories to see the operations.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE All Directors are kept up-to-date with information about Board Memb ership and Meeting Attendance Interteks business and there is an ongoing programme of Board Members Number of scheduled information dissemination.
It is important that the Directors meetings held in 2015 have an appreciation of our business both in the UK and Eligible overseas and during the year there were presentations from to attend Attendance senior management to the Board, and meetings have been Sir David Reid 6 6 held on regional strategy to increase the understanding of Chairman operations, opportunities and risks.
The Group Company Wolfhart Hauser 3 3 Secretary, in conjunction with the Groups advisers, monitors Chief Executive Officer retired 15 May 2015 legal and governance developments and Directors are regularly Andr Lacroix 3 3 Chief Executive Officer appointed 16 May 2015 updated on such matters.
6 6 Edward Leigh PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Chief Financial Officer The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Edward Astle 6 6 Group and the Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation Non-Executive Director review each year in order to assess how well the Board, the 6 6 Alan Brown Non-Executive Director Committees, the Directors and the Chairman are performing.
3 3 Christopher Knight 2015 External Board evaluation Non-Executive Director retired 15 May 2015 As planned, and recommended by the Code, a formal 1 6 5 Dame Louise Makin evaluation process was facilitated by a third party, Egon Non-Executive Director Zehnder, under the direction of the Chairman at the end of 3 3 Gill Rider 2015.
Egon Zehnder has no other connection to the Company Non-Executive Director appointed 1 July 2015 apart from in relation to the 2015 Board evaluation and search 6 6 Michael Wareing consultancy services.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director A key context for this years review was our CEO succession 6 6 Mark Williams Non-Executive Director where, after 10 years as CEO, Wolfhart Hauser retired at the AGM in May 2015 and was succeeded by Andr Lacroix.
6 6 Lena Wilson Accordingly the review focused mainly on the period since May Non-Executive Director when Andr assumed the CEO position, while also taking into When required the Board also met at short notice on a quorate basis.
D ame Louise Makin was unable to attend one meeting due to an account the outstanding learnings and opportunities from the unavoidable commitment.
previous leadership to ensure continuity.
60 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT It was noted that the CEO succession process was well led by The Chairman met with each Non-Executive Director to the Chairman and the Board had found and appointed a highly discuss individual contributions and performance, together capable and proven CEO who could take the Company through with training and development needs.
The Board has confirmed the next era of leadership.
Further, the feedback on this early that the contribution of each of the Directors continues to be period of his leadership was extremely positive: this included effective and recommends that shareholders should be a major strategic review and working it through with the supportive of their election or re-election to the Board.
executive management and the Board.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND BOARD COMMITTEES There is a real sense of clarity and alignment on the The Group has a clear Governance Framework, as set out in comprehensive strategy review completed over the last seven the diagram below, which explains how authority is delegated months to December 2015.
The Board is delighted to see from the Board.
Andrs purposeful, thoughtful and energetic leadership The principal Board Committees comprise the Audit producing an improvement in business performance and & Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and constructive board dynamics.
There is a clear plan looking the Remuneration Committee.
forward with timescales and milestones and priorities for implementation and review at the Board.
Each of the Boards Committees has received delegated authority to carry out the business defined in its respective The Board recognise the scale of the challenges and Terms of Reference.
The Board is satisfied that the Terms of opportunities in realising the value they can deliver for Reference for each of these Committees reflect current best shareholders and are optimistic that it can be done.
This practice and satisfy the terms of the Code.
The Terms of is based on the work done inter alia on the differentiated Reference for these principal Committees are available on value proposition and the good to great accelerators.
Alongside the Strategy, Andr has led a detailed review with At each Board Meeting, the Chair of each Committee provides his management team of the vision, core purpose, mission and the Board with a brief summary of the work carried out by values which is a key element of alignment and ensuring good their Committee, if any, between Board meetings and makes execution right across the Group.
recommendations to the Board for approval.
Further The Board recognises the importance of People in our business information on the responsibilities and activities of each of the and Andr has been quick to lead a strong focus on strategic Committees can be found on pages 63 to 77 Remuneration capability in HR, people processes and talent development.
Committee, pages 78 to 82 Audit & Risk Committee and on pages 83 and 84 Nomination Committee.
The Board processes were reviewed in terms of the construction, composition, and dynamics of their Committees.
The Board also delegates certain responsibilities The connections between the Board and the Committees are to management and this is governed by the Authorities good with its Executives and Non-Executives Directors working Cascade which is regularly reviewed and updated well together.
Governance overall is seen to be sound.
An to meet business needs.
exception, and a surprise, was the voting down of last years Remuneration Report.
The Board took this very seriously and has carried out a detailed review of the underlying reasons.
Intertek Group plc Shareholders In particular our new Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Gill Rider, together with our new external remuneration Intertek Board of Directors advisers have as required engaged with shareholders on our response to their concerns.
The Board believe on the basis of this constructive engagement and changes we have made that our 2015 Remuneration Report will receive a positive vote from Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration our Shareholders at this years AGM.
Committee Committee Committee Lastly, and importantly, the Board believe the Company is entering a new era of opportunity.
We have a good strategy Executive Risk Control Investment for growth.
We have a capable, motivated, and energised team Management and Assurance Committee and an excellent CEO to lead them to deliver shareholder value.
Team Committee In conclusion, the review has shown that the Board and its Committees continue to operate in an efficient and effective manner.
Divisional & Country Support Functions Management Chairman and Non-Executive Director evaluation The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, conducted a performance review of the Chairman.
They considered his leadership, performance Risks Controls and overall contribution to be of a high standard and he continues to have their full support.
Board Committees Operational Committees INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 61 Directors report Corporate governance continued OPERATIONAL COMMITTEES Our largest shareholders are invited annually to meet with the Executive Management Team Chairman to share their views.
In 2015 we invited shareholders The Executive Management Team, which comprises the holding more than 40% of the share register collectively to Executive Directors, the senior Group and Executive Vicethese meetings.
The Company has also consulted extensively Presidents and other senior management, meet regularly with shareholders in relation to remuneration following the to discuss and decide business and operational issues.
There was engagement and meetings held The biographical details of the members of the Committee between the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and can be found on pages 22 and 23. shareholders representing over 50% of the share register.
Investment Committee 2015 Investor Relations Calendar The Investment Committee is responsible for reviewing February Chairman shareholder meetings significant contracts, leases and acquisitions, undertaking post investment appraisal reviews, and overseeing capital March Annual Results Roadshows expenditure and investments as defined in the Authorities April Investor site visit Cascade and forms part of the Intertek Corporate Testing, Inspection & Assurance Conference Governance Framework.
The membership of the Investment Committee consists of the Chief Executive Officer and May Annual General Meeting the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee is serviced AGM Trading Update by the Deputy Company Secretary.
New CEO introductory shareholder meetings Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA June European Business Services Conference Independent shareholder study with UK and There are two key elements to the work of the RCA: US investors 1.
T o oversee the development and improvement of the August Interim Results Roadshows Groups risk management, internal controls and assurance September Support & Business Services Conference framework and the related procedures and systems: and European Large Cap Conference 2.
T o oversee the operation and implementation of the Private Wealth Management Roadshow procedures and systems identified.
Shareholder consultation on remuneration November Trading Statement The RCA is comprised of the Chief Financial Officer, Group December US Business Services Conference Company Secretary, Chief Information Officer, Executive Vice-President Human Resources, Group Financial Controller, Annual General Meeting Group General Counsel and Head of Internal Audit.
This year the AGM will be held on 25 May 2016 at 9.00am More information on the RCA is available in the report of the in the Park Room at the Westbury Hotel, Conduit Street, Audit & Risk Committee on page 81.
The AGM provides the opportunity for all shareholders to develop their understanding of the Companys RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS strategy and operations, to ask questions of the full Board on Shareholder engagement the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report The views and opinions of our shareholders are important to and Accounts.
All Board members attend the AGM and, in the Company and we maintain an ongoing engagement particular, the Chairs of the Audit & Risk, Nomination and programme for major shareholders.
Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
An independent Investor Study for Intertek was undertaken The Company proposes a resolution on each separate issue during April and May 2015.
This involved a quantitative and does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
The assessment of the business based on past performance and Notice of the AGM Notice is sent to shareholders by forecasts of the future, together with a qualitative assessment e-communications or by post.
based on interviews with 19 leading institutional investors in A copy of the Notice is available on the website at the UK and North America controlling an identified 45% of www.
the issued share capital of the Company between them.
The findings of the study were then presented to the Board in July 2015.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available to meet with shareholders.
The other Non-Executive Directors are also available to meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any matters relating to the Company.
The Companys website has an investors section which includes a wealth of information that may be of interest to our shareholders and investors.
62 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
