Directors report Audit & Risk Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Michael Wareing Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee during the year was as follows: Committee Members Number of meetings held in 2015 Eligible to attend Attendance Michael Wareing 5 5 Committee Chair Edward Astle 5 5 1 Christopher Knight 2 2 2 Alan Brown 3 3 Lena Wilson 5 5 1.
Christopher Knight retired from the Committee on 15 May 2015 2.
Alan Brown joined the Committee on 1 July 2015 DEAR SHAREHOLDER Throughout 2015, the composition of the Committee was in I am pleased to present this years report of the Audit & Risk compliance with the Code and all members are independent Committee Committee.
The report outlines the activities and Non-Executive Directors.
The Board had determined that the responsibilities of the Committee, on behalf of the Board, Michael Wareing has recent and relevant financial experience.
in scrutinising the conduct of the business, its management Alan Brown also has relevant financial experience as detailed and auditors to protect the interests of shareholders.
During in his biography on page 57. the year the Committee continued to draw on the recommendations in last years review of the Groups total New Committee members receive an appropriate induction, assurance and risk management framework.
One of the consisting of the review of the Terms of Reference, previous changes introduced in the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Committee meeting papers, information on the Companys Governance Code Code is focused on risk management and financial and operational risks and also have access to senior internal control.
In light of this, we reviewed the Committees operational staff and the Groups internal and external auditors.
procedures to ensure that the Group continues to comply The business of the Committee is linked to the Groups financial with the requirements of the Code.
calendar of events and the timetable for the annual audit.
A further key aspect of the Committees work during the At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, CEO, CFO, year was to oversee a formal and comprehensive tender process Group Financial Controller, Group General Counsel, the Head for the external auditor appointment.
Following the completion of Internal Audit and the audit partner and audit lead from of the tender process, the Board agreed to recommend to KPMG attended all meetings.
Other senior executives were shareholders, for approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting invited to attend the Committee meetings as required.
The AGM, the appointment of  LLP Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the PwC as the Groups auditor for the year ending 31 December Companys website at www.
The Groups current auditor, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, ROLE AND ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE has continued in the role and has undertaken the audit of the The Board has authorised the Committee to review the Groups consolidated accounts for the year ended 31 December effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and 2015.
On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank KPMG internal controls and risk management systems together with for their significant contribution as the Groups auditor over procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting many years.
We expect an orderly transition and look forward of key risks.
A summary of the key matters considered by the to working with PwC in the future.
The audit tender process is Committee during 2015 is set out below and on the next page.
described in more detail in the following pages, together with the Committees other activities during the year, which include Audit & Risk Committee agenda items 2015 a thorough review of the internal audit function.
During the year the Committee also ensured that separate meetings with Financial statements and reports Feb May Jul Sep Dec the CFO, Group General Counsel, Head of Internal Audit and Full year results 2014 the external auditor without management present took place Annual Report and Accounts 2014 in order to provide a forum for any issues to be raised.
Management highlights memorandum Finally, there have been a number of changes during the year Going concern assessment to the membership of the Committee.
As announced, Christopher Knight retired at the 2015 AGM and Alan Brown Fair, balanced and understandable assessment joined the Committee on 1 July 2015.
I am pleased to welcome Alan as a member of the Committee, and his relevant industry Review of significant accounting policies experience adds breadth and knowledge.
Half year results 2015 The external evaluation of the performance of the Committee Viability Statement Methodology was conducted during the year and it was shown that the Internal Controls sign-off Committee is able and effective in discharging its duties in Review of models and methodology for accordance with its Terms of Reference and the requirements impairment testing of the Code.
78 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT The level of provision is subsequently reviewed on a regular Feb May Jul Sep Dec External audit basis with the Group General Counsel, taking into account the Audit strategy & plan 2015 advice of external legal counsel.
The Group General Counsel Audit fee proposal 2015 briefs the Committee at every meeting on the latest status of key claims and the level of provision.
The Committee, Engagement letter following assurance from management and review of the Non-audit fees review of policy, report presented by the external auditor, considered and agreed spend and cap that the claims provision was appropriate given the size, status Update on non-audit fees and number of claims reported during the year.
Report on interim findings Taxation KPMG highlights review memorandum The determination of profits subject to tax is calculated KPMG effectiveness according to complex laws and regulations, the interpretation and application of which can be uncertain.
In addition, deferred Letter of representation to the auditors tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the External audit tender update & auditor amounts to be recognised, with consideration given to the presentations timing and level of future taxable income.
The main areas of judgement in the Group tax calculation are the expected Internal audit central tax provisions for the full year and the recognition of 2016 Internal Audit plan the UK deferred tax asset.
Twice a year, the Committee receives a report from management providing an evaluation of existing Internal audit reports risks and tax provisions which is reviewed and rigorously Internal audit effectiveness challenged by the Committee.
The Committee also considered reports presented by the external auditor before determining Governance, risk and assurance that the levels of tax provisioning were appropriate.
Group risk register review Restructuring Compliance and operational risk report In reviewing the provision for restructuring, details of which Key claims report are contained in the financial review on page 36 and in note 3 to the financial statements, the Committee reviewed details Other of each of the activities pursued as part of the restructuring to ensure that the appropriate level of provision is put in place.
2015 rolling Committee agenda The Committee also sought confirmation from the external Discussion on Finance Systems, auditor that the restructuring plan met the criteria for Controls and Transformation recognising a provision under IAS 37 before determining Review and endorsement that the provision was appropriate.
of Tax and Treasury policies Accounting for acquisitions SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE In November 2015, the Group made the significant acquisition In preparation for each year end, the Committee reviews of PSI in the US.
The recognition of goodwill, intangible assets, the significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements other assets and liabilities and estimates of the fair value to be applied in the financial statements and discusses their of consideration transferred are all based on a number of application with management.
The external auditor also assumptions.
The Committee considered the valuation of these considers the appropriateness of these assessments as part assets and liabilities, and reviewed managements assumptions of the external audit.
Management is required to estimate the fair value of the consideration transferred and In accordance with the Code, the external auditor prepares to estimate the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, a report for the Committee on both the half year and full including any separately identifiable intangible assets, and year results, which summarises the approach to key risks engaged external advisers as necessary to support this process.
in the external audit and highlights any issues arising out The Committee has reviewed managements accounting papers of their work on those risks, or any other work undertaken on the acquisition, and taken into account the report presented on the audit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and by the external auditor, before determining that the acquisition considered the following areas of judgement to be exercised accounting is appropriate.
in the application of the accounting policies: Impairment Claims The Groups strategy includes acquisition-led growth to From time to time the Group is involved in various claims and generate new services and expand into new locations.
These lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of business.
The acquisitions, being in the service sector, generate significant Committee considered the claims provision which reflects goodwill that benefits the Group as a whole and specifically the estimates of amounts payable in connection with identified the business to which the acquisition relates.
Goodwill, claims from customers, former employees and others.
The aggregated at the business line level, must be tested annually Committee noted that once claims have been notified the for impairment under IAS 36 Impairment IAS 36, or when finance teams liaise with the business to determine whether there are indicators of impairment.
These indicators include a provision is required, based on IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent poor performance compared to budget.
liabilities and Contingent assets IAS 37.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 79 Directors report Audit & Risk Committee continued The Committee reviewed the impairment consideration and KPMG were not invited to participate in the audit tender.
calculations prepared by management considering the trading The process was led by an audit tender team comprising the assumptions, the discount rates used as well as the sensitivities Committee Chair, the CFO, the Group Financial Controller and included by management, details of which are contained in the Deputy Group Financial Controller.
It included a Request note 9 to the financial statements.
The Committee also took for Proposal, interviews with management and the Committee, into account the work undertaken by the external auditor in and site visits followed by an assessment of the proposals.
respect of impairment and is satisfied that the impairment The Committee reviewed and approved the tender process, recorded against the Industry Services cash-generating unit governance and selection criteria.
Following the first stage CGU is appropriate, and that no impairment is required of the process, two shortlisted firms were invited to respond against any other CGU.
to specific questions from the Committee and then to present to the Committee, followed by a Q&A session.
At the The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation conclusion of the second stage of the process, the Committee to the financial statements were consistent, with the exception discussed their findings and the audit tender team made of restructuring, with those identified by the external auditor a recommendation to the Committee.
The Committee in their report on pages 138 to 140. then made a recommendation to appoint PwC which FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT was approved by the Board.
Further to the request of the Board, the Committee has Following the conclusion of the formal tender process, reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts with the intention a resolution proposing the appointment of PwC as auditor of providing advice to the Board on whether, as required by of the Group for the year ending 31 December 2016 and the Code, the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, giving authority to the Directors to determine its remuneration is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary will be submitted to the forthcoming AGM.
information for shareholders and other readers of the Annual INDEPENDENCE Report and Accounts to assess the Groups position and The Terms of Reference of the Committee include ensuring the performance for 2015, its business model and strategy.
continued independence and objectivity of the Groups external In justifying this statement, the Committee has considered auditors.
This is achieved through: the robust process that underpins it, which includes: The annual approval of the policy for the engagement Clear guidance and instruction given to all contributors, of external auditors for audit and non-audit services: including at business line level: Setting limits and a budget for non-audit spend for the Revisions as a result of regulatory requirements were external auditors: monitored on a regular basis: An annual review of the auditors performance in conducting Pre year-end discussions held with the external auditor in the external audit: and advance of the year-end reporting process: Where appropriate, audit tendering and rotation.
Pre year-end input provided by senior management and corporate functions: AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES A verification process dealing with the factual content of the The Company has set out a policy on the provision of non-audit reports to ensure accuracy and consistency: work by the external auditors to make sure that the auditors Comprehensive review by the senior management team to independence is safeguarded.
The policy was reviewed during ensure overall consistency and balance: the year and is consistent with the Auditing Practices Boards Review conducted by external advisers and the external Ethical Standards No.
The policy auditor on best practice with regard to the content and is designed to ensure that the provision of such services structure of the Annual Report and Accounts: does not create a threat to the external auditors independence Review and consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts and objectivity.
by the Committee: and It identifies certain types of engagement that the external Final sign-off provided by the Board.
auditors shall not undertake, including internal audit and The results are presented to the Committee to ensure actuarial services relating to the preparation of accounting compliance with the Code.
The Committee challenge estimates for the financial statements, appraisal or valuation judgemental statements to ensure that they are reasonable services, tax services in relation to marketing, planning or within the context of the report.
opining in favour of a transaction and any other services that, locally, are prohibited through regulation.
An annual cap for This process enabled the Committee, and then the Board, non-audit services is presented to the Committee for approval, to confirm that the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, taken which should not ordinarily exceed 50% of the audit fee.
Caps as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides are also assigned to each category, compared to spend in the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the previous two years and prior approval is required for all items Companys performance, business model and strategy.
EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER A report is presented to the Committee twice a year showing In November 2014, the Committee agreed to start the process year to date spend against each category of the annual cap for the formal tender of the external audit with the intention previously approved by the Committee.
of selecting a new external auditor to be appointed for the year ending 31 December 2016 following the completion The policy also recognises that there are some types of of the 2015 year end process and recommending their work, such as accounting and tax advice, where a detailed appointment at the 2016 AGM.
understanding of the Groups business is advantageous.
80 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT The policy is designed to ensure that the external auditor is only This is reviewed and refreshed on a regular basis to reflect appointed to provide a non-audit service where it was subject the changes in the risk and governance environments.
to a competitive tender and is considered to be the most suitable supplier of the service.
Group Core Control Framework A summary of the fees paid for non-audit fees is set out in the table below and further information is contained in note Business Line Policies Mission & Strategy Group Policies Support Function 4 to the financial statements on page 100: Policies Approved by the Board Approved by Executive Approved by Strategy 2015 2014 Management Team Unit COO Mission Statement Auditor fee breakdown m m RCA review new policies Non-Mandatory Group Strategy atGroup Level Mandatory across Focus on Customer Total non-audit fees, of which 0.6 0.6 theGroup Business Line Policies &Shareholders Technical audit related services Dedicated Policy Owners Support Function Change Control Process tax services 0.4 0.4 Policies Non-Technical other non-audit services 0.2 0.2 Audit fee 2.5 2.3 Any material breaches of the Groups systems of internal and % of audit fee 25% 26% risk management controls that are identified by the Groups control review procedures are reported to the Committee and The Committee remains satisfied with KPMGs independence corrective action is taken.
The Committee endeavours to ensure and their overall challenge to management with respect to the that the Group has in place the most appropriate and effective work undertaken in 2015 and in respect of this Annual Report controls, checks, systems, and risk management techniques so and Accounts.
PwC have confirmed their independence in as to be in line with best practice.
The control environment preparation for their appointment as auditor following the within the Group is further strengthened by two internal 2016 AGM.
The Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA has the remit of overseeing the development of the EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT internal control and an Investment Committee IC is in place The Committee conducts an annual assessment of the with the remit of reviewing and approving material expenditure effectiveness of the external audit.
During the year KPMG and other key actions throughout the business within certain presented its approach to maintaining audit quality to the limits as outlined in the Board Approval Matrix.
Further Committee and a questionnaire was circulated to those within information on the membership and remit of the RCA the Group who were involved in the audit process seeking their and IC is on page 62. views on the service provided as to adequacy of planning, resources, fieldwork and quality of reporting.
The Committee INTERNAL CONTROLS AND REPORTING considered in detail the feedback received from the internal In order to provide assurance that the Intertek controls and review, KPMGs performance and independence and the policy framework is being adhered to, a self-certification effectiveness of the overall audit process.
exercise is undertaken across the Groups global operations.
This process is facilitated by Company Secretariat.
An online INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT questionnaire requesting confirmation of adherence to financial The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups system and operation controls is sent to all Intertek country operations.
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing Where corrective actions are needed, the country is required to their effectiveness.
Risk management and internal controls are provide an outline and a confirmed timeline.
These items are embedded in the running of each business line, country and monitored closely to ensure timely completion.
The risk register process follows the global organisation, and risk registers are produced for significant Once reviewed and signed-off at country level, a consolidated countries and for each business line and support function, and assessment is made at regional level for further approval.
then consolidated at Group level.
The time commitment and An evaluation is undertaken with Executive Vice-Presidents breadth of data gathering in completing the risk registers have following which a company-wide position is submitted to the been expanded and have been reviewed in the context of the CEO and the CFO.
A final summary assessment is provided wider controls framework initiatives.
The Committee reviews to the Committee.
the Group risk register twice a year and presents the register The Committee can confirm that it reviewed the Groups to the Board for final approval in December.
internal controls and risk management systems and concluded A detailed verification programme assists the Committee to that there was a sound and effective control environment in check that all the statements made in the Annual Report and place across the Group during 2015 and up to the date upon Accounts are accurate.
Interteks Manual of Accounting Policies which these financial statements were approved.
No material and Procedures is issued to all finance staff and gives weaknesses had been identified.
instructions and guidance on all aspects of accounting and reporting that apply to the Group.
The Intertek Core Control Framework is a key Group-wide framework that provides an easy reference to the core elements of the Groups Governance Framework.
It includes those mandatory policies applying across the Group in all locations and provides a single place where each employee has easy access to mandatory policies.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 81 Directors report Audit & Risk Committee continued AUDIT AND RISK STRATEGY COMPLIANCE The Audit and Risk Strategy was presented to the Committee We have dedicated compliance officers across the Groups during the year.
The strategy has focused on ensuring that the markets who undertake investigations of issues that arise either programme is annually strengthened and enhanced to reflect from quality assurance audits or from other sources, such as the size and global reach of the Intertek Group.
The Group has routine compliance questions.
Reports of significant findings a programme of training and on-line courses for compliance are presented to the Committee which monitors and reviews matters, covering topics such as health and safety, anti-bribery, the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control and integrity.
The Group has a zero-tolerance policy to any activities across the Company.
Every employee is required to sign a zero-tolerance PRIORITIES FOR 2016 document confirming their understanding that any breaches The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months of the Groups Code of Ethics will result in disciplinary action are as follows: that may include summary dismissal.
Each year as part of the appraisal process every employee is asked to confirm their Oversee an orderly transition to the new external auditor: understanding of and adherence to the Code of Ethics.
Continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors on the Group and its financial position: and As highlighted, our Code of Ethics was reviewed and updated Monitor any relevant changes in the corporate governance in 2014 to simplify and consolidate Interteks approach to and regulatory arena.
This has reinforced the Intertek Compliance Principles in respect of integrity, conflicts of interest, GOING CONCERN confidentiality, anti-bribery and fair marketing and The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has strengthened our approach to protecting our environment.
adequate resources for a period of at least 12 months from the The Code of Ethics is available on the Groups website.
date of signing the Annual Report and Accounts, and have An on-line training programme was developed for the new therefore assessed that the going concern basis of accounting is Code of Ethics and was rolled out to employees during 2015. appropriate in preparing the financial statements and that there The Code of Ethics is available in 28 languages.
are no material uncertainties to disclose.
CONFIDENTIAL HOTLINE This conclusion is based on a review and an assessment of the We are committed to maintaining a culture where issues levels of facilities expected to be available to the Group, based of integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed.
on levels of cash held, Group Treasury funding projections, and There is a global hotline system, which is operated by an the Groups financial projections for a period to 31 December independent third party, providing a web-based system in 2020.
With the exception of 91m of facilities maturing in 24 languages, for the confidential reporting of any suspected 2016, all the current borrowing facilities are expected to be or real breaches in compliance by any employee, contractor, available at 31 December 2016. customer or other stakeholder.
There is also a telephone hotline In making this assessment, management has considered the where calls are answered 24 7 by trained specialists.
This covenants attached to the Groups borrowing facilities and underpins the ethics programme and also helps the business performed downside scenarios on the Groups financial protect itself against any unethical behaviour.
The details of the projections of 10% and 20% reduction in EBITDA forecast.
hotline have been communicated to staff through the Groups Even in these circumstances, there is significant headroom on main intranet page and by posters at Intertek locations.
reports are investigated thoroughly, with action taken when required.
Reports of significant matters raised on the hotlines After making diligent enquiries the Directors have a reasonable are also provided to the Committee, if appropriate.
expectation based upon current financial projections and bank facilities available, that the Group has adequate resources to INTERNAL AUDIT continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly The annual Internal Audit plan is reviewed and approved by the they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Committee.
Where there is no internal expertise to perform a the Groups financial statements.
specialised audit, a third party auditor with the requisite skills is appointed to undertake the audit, the findings of which are reported to the Committee.
In its quarterly reports to the Committee, Internal Audit provided summaries of each audit performed, with commentary on the robustness of risk management activities and internal control design and operating effectiveness.
In 2015 there was a varied plan of work across key risk areas, including reviews of businesses, MICHAEL WAREING functions and projects, as well as regular follow-up activities.
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee As part of its annual programme, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function.
In addition a more detailed external benchmarking review was performed in July by Deloitte.
This was the first such review performed, and led to the conclusion that the function was effective.
It also provided useful input for the future direction of the department.
82 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
