O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 51 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report ANNE FAHY Chair of the Audit Committee INTRODUCTION FROM THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIR I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, our Audit Committee Report on our work in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
2015 has been a busy year during which, in addition to our normal work programme, we re-engaged  LLP PwC as our outsourced provider of internal audit services following a comprehensive selection and tender process involving three competing firms.
During the year the focus of our normal work programme has again been upon the trading judgements and estimates which underpin our revenue and margin recognition on long-term construction and service contracts, acquisition accounting, impairment testing of the value of goodwill and retirement benefit obligations, all of which are covered in more detail within the body of the report.
We expanded the scope of our review of going concern this year to incorporate a review of the basis for making the viability statement and supported the Board in embedding the revised code on risk management and internal control monitoring and assurance.
Having reviewed the Annual Report, the Committee considers that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to assess the Groups strategy, business model, position and performance.
In addition, we have also spent time evaluating the independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of both internal and external audit processes as well as of the Committee itself.
Anne Fahy Chair of the Audit Committee 52 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued approve the annual work programme of the internal auditor, MEMBERSHIP the fees to be paid in connection with that work and review The Committee is composed entirely of independent nonthe effectiveness of the internal audit process: and executive directors, in accordance with the provisions of the provide an independent overview of the integrity of the 2014 Corporate Governance Code the Code, and is chaired Companys and the Groups systems of internal control, by Anne Fahy.
The directors who have served on the Committee whistleblowing investigation, risk management and during the year are: financial reporting processes through the co-ordination and supervision of the quality, independence and effectiveness Name Date of appointment to Committee of the internal and external auditors, reviewing the A K Fahy Chair 1 January 2013 Companys financial reporting and making further enquiries as appropriate.
L G Cullen 14 November 2005 R J King 1 September 2014 The effectiveness of the Company and the Groups internal control and risk management systems is reviewed by the Board.
K L Ludeman 1 January 2011 N R Salmon 1 August 2014 A full set of Committee papers is provided to every director and the Chair of the Committee reports to the subsequent Board meeting on the Committees work.
The Board also receives a Les Cullen retired from the Committee on 12 May 2015. copy of the minutes of each meeting.
Glyn Barker Chairman-Designate was appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2016 but will retire when he succeeds MEETINGS Lord Blackwell as Group Chairman on 1 March 2016.
The Committee met six times during the year.
The external auditors were present at three of the meetings and Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board, on representatives from PwC, the provider of the internal audit the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in function, were present at two of the meetings.
The Group consultation with the Committee Chair.
Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller also attended the majority of the meetings Anne Fahy is a qualified chartered accountant and has recent by invitation.
The other members of the Committee all have extensive business and financial experience.
The Committee has twice taken the opportunity to seek the Directors biographies are included on pages 38 to 40. views of the external and internal auditors in private and both The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
the external and internal auditors have the opportunity to address the Committee in private at any time should they so ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES wish.
In addition, the Chair met with both parties periodically to review audit and internal control topics and to ensure open and The role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its continuous dialogue with the Committee.
terms of reference which are available on the Companys website at www.
These terms of reference, OVERVIEW OF ACTIVITIES which include all matters described in Disclosure and Transparency In connection with the 2015 financial year the Committee: Rule 7.1.
3 and the Code, are reviewed at least annually by the Committee and were last updated in December 2015. concluded the tender process for the outsourced provision of internal audit services to the Group, which resulted in the The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: re-appointment of PwC, further details of which are set out review with management and the external auditors the in the Internal Audit paragraph below: Groups consolidated report and accounts and the halfreviewed the 2015 half-year report and the 2015 annual year report and any formal announcements relating to the report and financial statements.
As part of each review the Groups financial performance based on the statutory audit Committee satisfied itself as to the clarity and completeness or half-yearly review, as the case may be, before submission of disclosures in the financial statements and that they were to the Board: appropriately contextualised.
It also reviewed the Audit review the annual report and accounts and advise the Board Committee Report, together with the Chairmans Statement, as to whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and Strategic Report and Corporate Governance statement understandable and provides the information necessary relating to audit and risk management.
As part of each for shareholders to assess the Companys position and review the Committee received a report from the external performance, business model and strategy: auditors on their audit of the annual report and review of the half-year report, respectively: make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor, take reviewed the paper prepared by management supporting the responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the going concern and viability statements and satisfied itself statutory audit and agreement of the fees in respect of both as to the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions the statutory audit and non-audit services provided by the ensuring consistency with the Groups longer-term planning external auditor: and annual budgeting cycle: O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 53 reviewed the Groups statement of compliance with SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Key judgements Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of The Committee reviewed the key judgements applied in the Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee preparation of the consolidated financial statements which Responsibilities Order 2014 made by the Competition and Markets Authority the CMA Order : have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies and detailed notes to the financial statements on pages 104 reviewed, prior to their consideration by the Board, to 146 as well as considering the overall quality of earnings.
the representation letters to be given to the external The Committee received a paper, prepared by management, auditors in respect of the 2015 half-year report and the setting out the key judgements and reviewed and challenged 2015 annual report: these in the light of its own knowledge, taking into account the reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of audit findings and views of Grant Thornton and further enquiry engagement for the 2015 half-yearly review and for the of executive management, as appropriate, in relation to the audit of the 2015 annual report: following matters: received a briefing from the Group Finance Director on the principal judgements made in determining the 2015 halfRevenue and margin recognition year report and the 2015 annual report, reviewed those The recognition of revenue and profits on long-term judgements and, taking into account the external auditors construction and service contracts requires management view, satisfied itself that the judgements and estimates to exercise significant levels of judgement involving a high were both appropriate and robust and in accordance with degree of discretion and control.
For construction-type the Groups accounting policies: contracts the key judgement concerns the recognition reviewed textual changes to and satisfied itself that the of profits, the recovery of work-in-progress and debtors, accounting policies remained appropriate: especially on non-certified amounts including variations and claims and forecast outcomes.
For service-type contracts considered and agreed the scope and fees to be paid to the key accounting risk is that the revenue and costs are not the external auditors for the 2015 half-yearly review and recognised in the correct period and provisions are not made 2015 audit: for losses when foreseen.
For contracts in the Equipment received a bi-annual update on the Groups monitoring of Services division, where revenue is recognised on either the fraud risk assessment: sale of equipment or over the period of an equipment hire, reviewed the external and internal audit risk assessments the key accounting risk relates to whether the appropriate and satisfied itself that the audit activities appropriately cut-off for sales and period of hire has been applied and the addressed those risks: recoverability of debtors.
ensured itself as to the adequacy of controls across the The Committee reviewed the audit findings and management worldwide businesses, particularly with regard to entities judgements reviews undertaken on a selection of contracts which are not controlled by the Group: perceived to carry the highest risk of misstatement against monitored non-audit fees in comparison to the audit fees the background of its familiarity with the challenged in accordance with the Companys policy on the provision contracts, which are regularly discussed at Board meetings, of non-audit services as detailed in External Auditor whilst acknowledging that anticipated final outcomes on Objectivity and Independence below : contracts may carry uncertainty and exposure to changes in the supply chain, clients requirements and circumstances, reviewed the internal audit programme and findings and ability to meet technical commissioning and completion remediation actions as well as agreeing the internal audit hurdles and other variables.
This also included the plan for 2016, ensuring an adequate coverage of risks: Committee satisfying itself as to the recoverability of received a report at each meeting on the progress and long-dated debtor and work-in-progress balances.
outcome of the investigation of whistleblowing notifications: received a presentation from the Support Services Divisional The Committee reviewed the level of provisioning made Finance Director covering the current status and mediumby management at both contract level and centrally at the term plans for managing business risk, improving financial year end in order to form a view of the completeness of controls, investing in the systems environment and developing provisions on loss-making contracts and whether there was a the finance function within the Support Services division: requirement to include a forward loss provision.
The quality of earnings and movement in provisions during the course of reviewed the Companys enhanced tax disclosure note and the year was also reviewed.
proof of tax information, along with additional narrative relating to the Groups approach to its tax affairs and tax Acquisition accounting for the acquisition of responsibilities: Initial Facilities and esg established the Committees calendar of actions for During the year the acquisition accounting for Initial the 2016 financial year: Facilities and esg was completed with final fair value reviewed its terms of reference and whether any adjustments made to recognise updated information in changes needed to be proposed to the Board: and relation to expected outturn on certain contracts acquired, reflecting additional operational experience and knowledge conducted an evaluation exercise to review its of the contract portfolio.
The Committee was satisfied that own effectiveness.
these were appropriate and supported by performance data and management expertise.
54 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued for a third year as the Companys independent auditor for the Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets 2016 financial year.
This will be the audit partners third year as The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on the balance sheet at the year end was 520.2 million, which Audit Engagement Partner of a maximum tenure of five years.
included goodwill with a value of 428.6 million.
The Committee will continue to review the auditor appointment The Committee reviewed managements determination of its and the need to ensure that the Group complies with the CMA principal cash generating units, the key assumptions used, Order relating to mandatory audit tenders every ten years and such as the discount rate and future cash flows in light of rotation after 20 years.
current business performance and that future projections were consistent with medium-term plans, and satisfied itself of the Objectivity and independence appropriateness of managements impairment testing, that The Company has an established policy aimed at safeguarding significant headroom exists and that any reasonable sensitivity the independence and objectivity of the Groups external to the assumptions did not indicate any impairment.
The policy sets out the approach to be taken when Retirement benefit accounting considering engaging the external auditor for non-audit work.
Calculation of the retirement benefit obligation requires The external auditors may carry out certain categories of management to make a number of assumptions including the non-audit work in areas that have been pre-approved by the selection of an appropriate discount rate and mortality.
Committee up to a monetary limit of 150,000 per transaction.
The Committee satisfied itself as to the reasonableness of the Any other work for which management may wish to instruct the assumptions set out in note 30 to the financial statements, external auditors up to a value of 250,000 must be approved in taking into account the independent third-party confirmations advance by the Committee or, more normally, by the Committee of the pension assets valuation at the balance sheet date and Chair on its behalf.
Instructions above 250,000 require prior that pension balances are accounted for in accordance with approval of the Board.
The pre-approved services may be relevant accounting standards and guidance.
summarised as follows: FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE assurance services, tax compliance and advisory services FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and where audit reports are required by statute or The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report.
regulation: and At the request of the Board the Committee considered whether other services, encompassing general consultancy services.
the report and accounts, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable.
In making that assessment, the Committee The above policy also prohibits the auditors auditing their took into account whether the report and accounts provided the own work, making management decisions, entering into any necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys arrangement in relation to audit work whereby a joint interest position and performance, business model and strategy.
is created between the Company and the auditor, acting in the role of advocate for the Company or being appointed as The Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the recruitment consultants without the Committees prior consent.
2015 annual report was fair, balanced and understandable The Committee received a report at each of its meetings and contained the information set out above and reported itemising the fees expended and forecast to be expended accordingly to the Board.
The Boards statement in this regard with Grant Thornton for non-audit services.
In addition to the is set out on page 87. above safeguards, a minimal amount of non-audit services were EXTERNAL AUDIT delivered by specialists and advisers who were independent of the audit team.
Oversight The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Non-audit fees incurred for the year were 123,000 12 per cent Board as regards audit matters.
The Committee manages the compared to audit fees of 961,000, which related principally relationship with the Companys auditor, which includes a review to the interim review at 114,000 and regulatory related advice of the effectiveness of the statutory audit at the end of the audit of 9,000.
Further details of the audit and non-audit fees cycle, agrees, for and on behalf of the Board, the statutory audit paid to Grant Thornton are included in note 4 to the financial fees and scope of the statutory audit and makes recommendation statements on pages 114 and 115. to the Board as to the auditor appointment or re-appointment.
The Committee concluded that the safeguards set out above The Committee also seeks to ensure co-ordination between the were sufficient so as not to compromise auditor objectivity activities of the external and internal auditors.
Tenure The Committee also reviewed Grant Thorntons audit effectiveness Grant Thornton was formally appointed as the Companys following the audit of the 2015 annual report taking into account auditor on 13 June 2014 following a competitive tender exercise the partners and senior audit staffs understanding of the involving four audit firms at the end of the 2013 statutory audit business, the effectiveness of the audit work in relation to major and approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
issues and how those were addressed, the quality of suggested control improvements, the appropriateness of assurance gained Based upon the review of audit effectiveness the Committee has over parts of the Group not audited by Grant Thornton, the recommended to the Board that Grant Thornton be reappointed appropriateness and deployment of experts on technical items, O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 55 the quality and comprehensibility of the audit findings report, the In addition to the agreed audit programme, and in order to monitor quality and clarity of the auditors external report and feedback the level of control across the Group, all material business units from management on the audit process generally.
In addition, the and relevant central and support functions were required to Committee reviewed the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR report complete an online self-assessment of their compliance with key on Interserve and discussed its findings with the Audit Engagement controls covering 16 different business processes.
Partner as well as satisfying itself as to the adequacy of the firms The principal findings were: internal quality assurance processes.
most businesses either maintained or improved their The Audit Engagement Partner has direct access to the Chair of compliance to a level in excess of 95 per cent: and the Committee and they meet on a regular basis in addition to the formal committee process.
improvements could be effected in inventory reconciliations within part of the Support Services business: anti-bribery INTERNAL AUDIT and corruption practices in the Middle East businesses Having tendered the statutory audit provision during the by the enhancement of refresher training and improved due diligence on counterparties: and information security previous year, the Committee considered that, given PwCs by clearer definitions of roles and responsibilities within eight-year tenure as internal auditors, it was appropriate to individual business units.
tender the provision of internal audit services.
Certain compliance scores, although acceptable, were lower In June 2015 four firms were invited to tender for the provision than the norm in new business areas but are expected to of internal audit services to the Group from 1 January 2016.
The improve as familiarity with the Groups internal control tender process was delegated to a selection panel comprising structure and the online assessment process increases.
Anne Fahy, Russell King, Tim Haywood, Trevor Bradbury and James Fell Group Financial Controller.
The Internal Audit Partner has direct access to the Chair of the Committee and they meet on a regular basis in addition to the The bid process involved a due diligence period during which formal committee process.
the competing firms were afforded access to management, followed by written submissions and oral presentations.
REVIEW The Committee undertook a review of its own performance in As part of its bid, PwC offered a number of enhancements to 2015 using, as an aide memoire, a self-assessment tool provided its services which ultimately earned it the re-appointment, by PwC giving an indication of the principal areas which an renewable annually.
Audit Committee effectiveness review should cover.
The result of this review was that the Committee concluded that it had The internal audit function provides an independent and objective been broadly effective in discharging the obligations entrusted appraisal to the Board, through the Committee, of the adequacy to it by the Board.
and effectiveness of the processes established to manage risk and control the business, makes recommendations on how the system The Committee also confirms that it has fulfilled its of internal control might be improved and assists the Board in responsibilities during the year in relation to and confirms meeting its objectives and discharging its responsibilities.
the Group is in compliance with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory The Committee monitors, reviews and assesses the role and Use of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee effectiveness of internal audit in the overall context of the responsibilities Order 2014.
Groups risk management system and review.
AGM The annual internal audit plan of work, submitted to the Committee each December for approval, is risk-based and The Chair of the Audit Committee will be available at the AGM designed to provide core assurance against those areas to answer questions about the work of the Committee.
identified as high risk and deliver cyclical reviews of key APPROVAL business activities, financial reporting processes and mediumrisk areas.
The plan may be modified by exception subject to This report was approved by the Board of Directors on agreement of the Committee based on changing circumstances.
24 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: The Committee received a summary of each internal audit review undertaken during the year comprising a set of findings, proposed Anne Fahy corrective actions, managements responses to those findings and, where appropriate, recommendations for improvements.
Chair of the Audit Committee 24 February 2016 Closure of the agreed corrective actions was tracked via a webbased system and monitored by management, with progress reported to the Committee in June and December.
