Governance Audit Committee Report Audit quality: the Committee continued to focus on audit quality.
This year theCommittee noted the Financial Reporting Councils comments and used ITV is a different business from that their Audit Quality Practice Aid to help shape the Committees review of the of three or five years ago.
toensure that our controls Risk management and internal anticipatethe changing controls: the Committee assisted theBoard in ensuring compliance with risksinourbusiness and the UK Corporate Governance Code the thatourreporting reflects Code inrelation to risk management and internal controls.
reviewed the process of risk management and considered how to John Ormerod embed more operational risk appetite Chairman, measures into board discussions.
For Audit Committee example in 2015, an Operational Risk Steering Group was established to manage and consider a number of In this report existing and emerging operational The purpose of this report is to highlight areas that the Committee risksand ensure the business addresses has reviewed during the year.
We report back to shareholders the them appropriately.
I am invited to significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection attend meetings of the Operational with the preparation of the Companys financial statements.
Also highlighted RiskSteering Group and of the Tax is how the Committee has assisted the Board in reviewing the Companys andTreasury Committee.
internal control and risk environment.
We explain what the Committee has done to review the effectiveness of our internal and external auditors.
Audit Tendering: during the year the Committee has continued to monitor changes in regulation for auditor appointments.
Recently the Department Ofparticular focus this year was Dear shareholder, for Business, Innovation and Skills has theacquisition accounting for Talpa, On the following pages we set out the issued further guidance that has clarified specifically the treatment of the Audit Committees Report for 2015.
ITVs position with regards toitsnext earnoutarrangements linked to tender and mandatory auditor rotation.
retaining key talent in the business.
Our particular areas of focus during the year include: Viability Statement: following changes Technology: technology is key to our to the Code the Committee reviewed Acquisitions: we continued to invest competitive success in areas such as the process bywhich the Company inour production business in particular online but also to improving our assesses viability over the longer term.
the acquisition of formats that travel operational efficiency.
The Committee This was considered by the Board and internationally.
The Committee engages has continued to review the plans and the statement is set out on page 47. at an early stage with significant controls over technology change and potential acquisitions.
We review with formaintaining control in areas where We continue to focus on financial management the approach to due legacy systems continue to operate.
reporting judgements and disclosures diligence and review the results of that Cyber security has remained a focus and challenging management to work prior to its submission to the Board.
forthe Committee, especially as media develop controls to anticipate future We consider carefully the appropriate companies have continued to face opportunities and risk.
Management is accounting for arrangements which are increased frequency and sophistication committed to continuous improvement.
designed both to incentivise creative of cyber attacks.
talent and manage financial risk.
62 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee Report We are pleased that Mary Harris joined Who is on the Committee the Committee during the year and she The Committee is composed entirely of Non-executive Directors.
The current brings a broad range ofexperience to members are: our deliberations.
John Ormerod Chairman We seek to respond to shareholders Mary Harris appointed 16 June 2015 expectation of audit committee Andy Haste reporting and would welcome feedback.
The Committee members have between them a wide range of business and financial experience.
The Committee considers that John Ormerod has recent John Ormerod and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
Chairman, Audit Committee 2 March 2016 Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found on the table onpage 59.
What we focused on in 2015 Our role In planning its own agenda, and The main role of the Committee is to: reviewing the audit plans of the internal and external auditor, the Committee monitor the integrity of the published financial information of the Company takes account of significant issues and and review and report to the Board on the significant financial reporting issues risks, both operational and financial, and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the published likely to impact on the Companys financial information of the Company: financial statements.
The Committee provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts are also addresses specific queries referred fair, balanced and understandable: to it by the Board or Remuneration review the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management Committee.
processes and give input to the Boards consideration of risk and risk appetite: monitor and review the effectiveness and independence of the internal During 2015 there were no topics where auditfunction: there was significant disagreement provide advice to the Remuneration Committee on financial reporting matters between management, our external and related judgements and risk management as they affect performance auditor and the Committee, or objectives related to executive remuneration: and unresolved issues that needed to be review the quality and effectiveness of the external audit and the procedures referred to the Board.
and controls designed to ensure auditor independence.
During 2015 we complied with the Following each meeting the Committee communicates its main discussion points provisions of the Statutory Audit and findings to the Board.
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Annual Review Competitive Tender Processes and Audit An annual review of the performance of the Committee was conducted for Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. theyear.
In addition to feedback from members of the Committee, input was sought from the Group Finance Director, external auditors, Internal Audit and Below is a summary of some of the theChairman of the Board.
Overall, the review concluded that the Committee is moresignificant risks and financial responding appropriately to its terms of reference and will continue to develop reporting issues discussed in the year its role.
Priorities for this year will include strengthening further the Committee bythe Committee.
membership as part of our succession planning and deepening our engagement with the key risks facing the Company.
Further information about the Committee and the Committees terms of reference can be accessed on our website.
com about governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Financial reporting As part of the Committees review oftheInterim and Full Year financial statements, the following were discussed: Complex discrete transactions in the year The Group completed certain transactions during the period that were outside the normal course of business.
The Committee carefully reviewed these one-off transactions to ensure that the judgements applied by management were reasonable and any complex accounting guidance followed correctly.
The key topics discussed in the year covered acquisitions.
Acquisition accounting for Talpa see note 3.4 for detail on the acquisition Talpa was the largest acquisition made by the Group in 2015.
The Committee ensured consistency in application of principles to previous deals and reviewed the treatment and presentation of performance-related commitments between ITV and theseller: Consistent As part of the review of the acquisition of Talpa, the Committee reviewed the areas of judgement applied application of by management around the valuation of intangibles.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions acquisition and judgements taken by management were on a basis consistent with previous acquisitions, market accounting practice and IFRSs.
PerformanceThe Talpa acquisition structure allows for further amounts payable after two, five and eight years related basedon the achievement of stretching performance targets for the business in the years following consideration acquisition.
For these amounts to be paid the deal requires the seller to remain with the business duringthese periods.
Further, if the seller leaves within two years a significant portion of the initial consideration would be refunded to ITV.
Structuring the deal this way helped manage risks in terms ofinitial capital outlay and created a joint incentive between ITV and the seller to grow the business.
Management considered it appropriate for performance reporting to include these payments as the cost of acquiring the business even though IFRS requires any payment that links a seller to remaining in the business as an employment cost.
The Committee discussed managements analysis for excluding these payments from adjusted earnings, and concluded that managements analysis was fair and consistent with previous acquisitions where key talent is retained.
Buy out of minority interest of Leftfield The Committee also reviewed the acceleration of the buy out of the Leftfield minority interest.
TheCommittee discussed managements judgements around the fair value of the consideration paid for the remaining minority interest and concluded managements analysis was fair and reasonable.
Recurring transactions in the year There are a number of areas where the Group transacts as part of its business as usual.
However, these areas may require the application of judgement by management or have underlying complexity that should be considered on an ongoing basis by the Committee.
Consequently, the following key topics are reviewed by the Committee: Revenue Every year the Committee considers managements assessment of the Groups internal controls framework, which includes control over revenue.
At the end of 2014 the Committee requested an internal audit exercise specifically to review the risks and controls surrounding each of the Groups main revenue streams.
This review was finalised in early 2015.
The Committee ensured the processes and controls around existing revenue streams remained consistent and effective during the year.
TheCommittee is involved in the preliminary discussions regarding implementation of the new revenue recognition standard IFRS15 applicable from 2018.
Deal debt This is where management reviews the over and under delivery of advertising value to agencies.
The Committee reviews managements approach and method of determining the provision required for under delivery.
The Committee is satisfied that the provision has been calculated on an appropriate basis.
Royalty accruals The Group is required to make royalty payments for content broadcast and distributed where we do not own all the rights.
Such payments are in accordance with individual contracts, and the large variety of terms results in a complex and manual process.
After an annual review of processes and controls, the Committee was satisfied with the improvements management continue to make in the controls over royalty payments and as with previous years, the Committee considered the estimated accrual to be reasonable.
64 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee Report Pension The Groups defined benefit pension scheme is a significant net liability on the Groups balance sheet accounting seenote 3.7 and the value of the schemes net liabilities will fluctuate due to changes in underlying assumptions and the assets are held at market value.
The main assumptions which drive the fluctuations in liabilities include the value of its bond yield rate and the forecast inflation rate.
The Committee considered both the process management undertook to finalise the assumptions and how these assumptions benchmark against the market.
The Committee concluded that the process was robust andthe resulting calculation appropriately balanced.
Other topics reviewed during the year included: Deficit financing As part of managements strategy to expand its content portfolio, significant investment in high end drama was made during the year.
The Committee has reviewed and considered the accounting implications, including revenue recognition and recoverability of the amounts invested.
The Committee concluded that the accounting treatment was appropriate.
Tax The Committee received regular updates from management and the Tax and Treasury Committee withregard to key areas of tax risk, tax compliance, tax matters in respect of corporate transactions, andsignificant changes in tax legislation.
The Committee considered the key risks which give rise to uncertainties over corporate tax, payroll and VAT liabilities and related provisions.
The Committee discussed the activities which management undertakes to resolve the matters that give rise to such provisions.
Where advice from our tax advisers is received, the results and views of their work are also reviewed.
The Committee concluded that the provisions at the year end were appropriate see note 2.3.
Risk Management and Internal The Committee has in place a rolling Strategy and financial reporting: Controls programme to review key compliance Thestrategy is reviewed and approved Risk management and other risk.
The Group performs a The Committee continued to consider comprehensive annual strategy review the process for managing risk within Internal controls and a rolling five year financial planning thebusiness and assisted the Board The Board has overall responsibility exercise.
The five year plan feeds into inrelation to compliance with the Code forthe Groups systems of internal theannual budget cycle.
The Executive and development of the risk appetite control and for regularly reviewing the Directors review formal forecasts, framework.
Further information on our effectiveness of those systems.
The detailed budgets, strategies and action HILL and strategic risks and uncertainties Committee assists the Board in reviewing plans and the Board approves the overall and risk management process is the systems of internal control.
The Group budget as part of its normal includedwithin the Strategic Report primary responsibility for the operation responsibilities.
The results of operating onpages 46 to 51. of these systems is delegated to units are reported monthly, along with management.
Such systems can only an update of the Groups performance For the Groups HILL risks the Committee provide reasonable and not absolute against strategic KPIs and cash.
Actual reviewed the Groups current level assurance against material misstatement results are compared to budget and ofexposure and considered the or loss.
Key control procedures are forecasts, and key trends and variances appropriateness of the mitigating designed to manage rather than are explained and analysed.
actions being taken by management.
Post-acquisition review: When The Committee also considered The Committee satisfies itself that introducing the Groups procedures and managements response to strategic risk, internal controls are operating control environment to an acquisition, including the level of assurance provided throughout the year principally based management is responsible for ensuring around the risk and how the risk is tracked onthe programme of internal audit that key areas of governance are using key risk indicators.
In addition to the internal implemented and that operational and process risks the Committee reviewed auditprogramme, there is a suite of financial processes are aligned to the how effective management was in exception reports that cover transaction Group.
A full post-acquisition review is addressing the findings of internal and processing.
For those subsidiaries not presented to the Committee in the year external audit, as well as the method covered by exception reporting software, following a material acquisition.
The bywhich management accepted management recently implemented a Committee reviewed Leftfield in 2015 processrisks.
monthly self assessment which is subject and plans to review Talpa in 2016. to independent internal review.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Data analytics: the Group has a suite of Our auditors an evaluation of each audit assignment automated analytics tests that enables Internal auditor completed using feedback from the the Group to continuously highlight The Groups internal audit activity is part of the business that has been exceptions from the norm over its outsourced to Deloitte who report audited: and transactional financial data.
The directly to the Committee.
During the a high level annual review that is analytics have been expanded and have year the Committee reviewed this completed by obtaining feedback from contributed to a stronger and more internal audit model.
We concluded that senior management in each division.
outsourcing offers access to the wide range of skills and resources in the At the start of the year the Committee Whistleblowing various geographies required and considered and approved the internal ITV has arrangements in place that endorsed its continuing use.
audit plan, that included audits across enable employees to raise concerns in the Group as well as assurance over live confidence about any possible risks to The Committee keeps under review projects.
During the year the Committee employees, customers, viewers or the theinternal audit relationship with reviewed findings from these internal Company.
The Committee considers Deloitte and the procedures to ensure audit reports, the actions taken to theprocess and procedures each year appropriate independence of the implement the recommendations made and is of the view that they are operating internal audit function is maintained.
In in the reports and the status of progress appropriately and that colleagues are particular, the Committee has approved against previously agreed actions.
All aware of and trust the process.
Every guidelines in relation to other advisory internal audit reports are available to three years ITV asks the whistleblowing and consultancy work that Deloitte theCommittee.
charity Public Concern at Work to carry mayundertake for the Company, which out an independent review of these adheres to the underlying principle that The Committee reviewed and approved arrangements.
ITV is a signatory to The they cannot implement controls that the 2016 internal audit plan.
First 100 campaign which seeks to they audit.
Other services provided by champion enlightened organisations Deloitte included tax and corporate External auditor that are committed to ensuring that finance advice.
Engagement their arrangements meet best practice.
The Committee is responsible for The effectiveness of internal audit is agreeing the terms of the engagement assessed over the year using a number letter.
Throughout the year the ofmeasures that include but are not Committee received reports from the limited to : auditor KPMG on their plans and the progress and results of their work.
Technology risk The Committee considers carefully As we continue to execute our strategy the technology infrastructure supporting thescope of planned work and the the business also has to evolve.
A number of legacy systems supporting the assessment of risk and materiality on existing business remain in place, while at the same time new revenue streams which it is based.
In particular through require systems to support them.
It therefore remains important to have an the Chairman the Committee effective technology governance framework that seeks to address the risks participates in the negotiation of the arising from the above environment.
In 2015, the Committee continued to review audit fee arrangements to ensure that the Groups governance over its legacy systems, including ongoing projects to there is an appropriate balance between migrate certain legacy systems to newer technology while implementing new the scope of work and the cost of systems to support our new revenue streams.
The Committees aim is to support a robust and effective audit and Media companies in particular have continued to face increased frequency and strong reporting lines to the Committee.
sophistication of cyber-attacks, with a number of well publicised cases in 2015 targeting services and customer data.
As part of ongoing governance the Audit tendering and rotation Committee reviewed the steps that management are taking on cyber security.
During the year the Committee has These included: increasing awareness and education of staff with regards to types continued to monitor changes in of security threat, improving the monitoring of internal network activity and the regulation for auditor appointments.
implementation of enterprise security management tools.
The Groups response The Department for Business BIS has to cyber security will require continuing effort, especially as the types of attacks recently issued further guidance on their and their sophistication will continue to evolve, and the Committee will continue consultation, setting out how EU audit to focus on this area in 2016. rules will be implemented in the UK.
66 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee Report TheBIS guidance specifically highlights Further in its assessment of audit quality The Committee regularly monitors the that companies which tendered the the Committee took into account: other services being provided to the audit engagement before the Group by its external auditor, and has application datefor the EU Regulation, the detailed audit strategy for the developed a formal policy and sign off that resulted in the reappointment of year, including the coverage of process with management to ensure the incumbent auditor, should benefit emerging risks: thisdoes not impair their independence from the transitional provisions where Group materiality and component or objectivity.
the tenderwould meet the objectives materiality: oftheEU Regulation.
how the auditor communicated any The policy is reviewed annually and is key accounting judgement and available in full on our website together Having recommended the reappointment conclusions: and with further information on how the of KPMG in 2012 following a competitive feedback from management of the Committee manages the external tender, and applying the above BIS performance of the external auditor.
guidance, the next mandatory tender would be for the2023 financial year.
There were no significant findings www.
com about governance However, the Committee will continue fromthe evaluation this year and the to monitor audit quality, to ensure the Committee considers the external audit Other than in exceptional circumstances Group continues to have a robust and to have been robust and effective.
management and the Committee do effectiveaudit.
not expect non-audit fees to be in excess Independence, objectivity and fees of fees for audit and audit-related Effectiveness and quality The Committee seeks to ensure the services.
The non-audit fees for 2015 Audit quality is reviewed throughout the objectivity and independence of our were one third of the audit fees.
A report year and in 2015 the Committee used auditor through: on the level of non-audit work provided the Financial Reporting Councils FRC by the auditor is given to the Committee Audit Quality Practice Aid to help focus on the assignment and rotation half yearly.
The significant non-audit structure its review of audit quality at of key personnel: engagements related to corporate tax ITV.
When making its assessment of the adequacy of audit resource: and advice and other assurance.
Full details audit quality, the factors the Committee policies in relation to non-audit work.
are set out on page 110. focused on included: The senior audit partner serves no more The Committee has formally reviewed External audit quality reports than five years continuously and the the work undertaken by KPMG for the reviewing the FRCs Audit Quality independent review partner serves no Committee and elsewhere in the Review reports and discussing with more than seven years continuously.
Company and is satisfied that the advice theauditor specific topics that may Other key partners serve for no longer they have received has been objective beapplicable to ITV, and how their than seven consecutive years.
audit strategy for the year addressed Committee monitors the tenure of thematic concerns that the FRC partners and senior staff as well as Reappointment hadhighlighted.
former employees working for the During the year the Committee Auditor interaction with management Company.
Following completion of the considered the performance and audit reviewing the auditors understanding 2015 audit, Mark Summerfield our Senior fees of the external auditor, and the level of business progress against the Statutory Auditor and KPMG partner will of non-audit work undertaken, and strategy and emerging industry rotate off our engagement and will be recommended to the Board that a themes, as well as the auditors replaced by Paul Sawdon.
During the resolution for the reappointment of discussions with management on year the Chairman of the Committee KPMG for a further year as the keycorporate transactions.
and management met partners from Companys auditor be proposed to Auditors own view of effectiveness KPMG who might serve as our senior shareholders at the AGM in May 2015. enquired with regards to: their audit partner making a final proposal The resolution was passed and KPMG auditmethodology and its effective which was approved by the Committee.
was reappointed for a further year.
application to ITV: their robustness of challenges and findings on areas which The Committee has recommended the require management judgement: reappointment of KPMG at the AGM on whether there had been an internal 12 May 2016. peer review of the ITV audit and what the findings were: and the experience of the senior members of the auditteam.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
