Governance Management Board 1 Julian Bellamy Managing Director, ITV Studios Appointment to the Board: February 2016 Previous experience: Julian joined ITV in2014 as Managing Director of the 1 2 studios business in the UK and was recently promoted to Managing Director of ITV Studios.
Julians previous roles included Creative Director and Head of Commissioning at Discovery Networks International, Head of Programming at Channel 4 and prior to that he ran BBC3 and E4.
He also spent time as Channel 4s Head of Factual Entertainment and was a commissioning editor of Channel 4 News and Current Affairs.
3 4 2 Mary Fagan Group Communications and CorporateAffairs Director Appointment to the Board: January 2011 Previous experience: Mary joined ITV from the Royal Mail Group, where shewas Corporate and Government AffairsDirector from December 2003.
Asenior city and business journalist 5 6 withmore than 20 years experience, Marys previous roles included Deputy City Editor of the Sunday Telegraph, Industrial Correspondent for the Independent and City Reporter attheEvening Standard.
7 56 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Management Board 7 Kelly Williams 3 Andrew Garard 5 David Osborn Managing Director, Commercial Group Legal Director and Company Group Human Resources Director Appointment to the Board: Secretary Appointment to the Board: December 2014 Appointment to the Board: October 2014 Previous experience: Kelly joined ITV November 2007 Previous experience: David joined ITV inAugust 2011 as Group Commercial Previous experience: Andrew joined as the Human Resources Director for ITV Director and was promoted to the ITVas Group Legal Director in 2007 and Studios in May 2011, and was appointed Management Board as Managing took on the additional role of Company to the Management Board in October Director, Commercial in December 2014.
He is also Chairman 2014 as Group Human Resources He is also Chairman of Thinkbox, sits ofITN, and responsible for rights Director, responsible for delivering the onthe BARB Strategy board and is Vice management, the ITV archive and Groups People Strategy.
David gained Chairman ofthe Advertising Association.
Previously previous experience in both the UK Before joining ITV, Kelly was the Sales Andrew was a Partner in the corporate andinternationally whilst working Director at Channel 5 and prior to that department of LeBoeuf Lambs London inavariety of businesses including held various positions at UKTV, Sky and office.
Prior to this, Andrew was Group EMIMusic, Vodafone, Visa Europe Thames Television.
General Counsel and Company Secretary andMarks & Spencer.
at Cable & Wireless plc where he was amember of the Group Executive 6 Simon Pitts responsible for Global Legal.
Prior to Managing Director, Online, Pay TV, thathe was Global Head of Legal and Interactive and Technology Appointment to the Board: Deputy General Counsel of Reuters January 2011 Group plc in the UK, and before that, Previous experience: Simon joined ITV General CounselAsia.
in 2000 and has held a range of roles across corporate strategy, general 4 Kevin Lygo management, digital media, policy and Director of Television regulation, and public affairs.
He took on Appointment to the Board: his most recent role in December 2014 August 2010 with a remit to grow ITVs Online, Pay TV Previous experience: and Interactive businesses alongside Kevin joined ITV as Managing Director, continued leadership of the Technology ITV Studios in 2010 and became Director team.
He also has responsibility for SDN, of Television in February 2016.
Kevins sits on the boards of ITN and YouView previous roles included Director of and is a Trustee of the Royal Television Television and Content at Channel 4, Society.
Before ITV Simon worked in the Director of Programmes at Channel 5 European Parliament in Brussels where and a number of positions at the BBC, he specialised in media issues.
including Head of Independent Commissioning for Entertainment.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
