Governance Corporate Governance Our Governance structure Board and Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Chairman and two Non-executive Chairman and Non-executive Directors Three Non-executive Directors Directors See the Audit Committee Report Meets to review the structure, size, and See the Annual Remuneration Report onpage62.
composition of the Board, including skills, onpage 68. knowledge and experience.
Identifies and nominates for board approval candidates tofill board vacancies, and considers succession planning for Directors and other Senior Executives.
Considers and reviews any conflicts of interest that may be reportedby the Directors.
Disclosure Committee General Purpose Committee Tax and Treasury Committee Executive Directors and other Executive Directors Group Finance Director and seniormanagers Meets as required to conduct business within other senior managers Meets to ensure compliance with the clearly defined limitsset by the Board.
Meets to consider and approve tax and continuing obligations under the Disclosure treasury related matters in respect of and Transparency Rules.
Monitors compliance with tax and treasury related policies and procedures.
Matters reserved for the Board and Committee terms of reference are available on our website: www.
com about governance Executive Management Board ITV Studios Board ITV Broadcast Board Members are set out on page 56.
Executive Directors and Senior Executive Directors and Senior Executives of divisional business Executives of divisional business Meets to consider and approve strategy and operational plans, monitors operating Meets to consider and approve operational Meets to consider and approve operational and financial performance, and assesses matters, and assesses and manages risk in matters, and assesses and manages risk in and manages risk.
relation to the Studios business.
relation to the Broadcast business.
Operations Operational Risk Steering Group Programme Compliance Responsibility Governance Board Manages and considers a number of Manages the direction and delivery of Advisory Group existing and emerging operational risks ITVsResponsibility Strategy including Manages and considers issues and and ensures that the business addresses inrelation to: risks in relation to the programme them appropriately including in relation to: Diversity and inclusion, Community, Charity compliance framework, the Health & Safety, Child Protection, and the Environment.
interactive business and Business Resilience, Data Protection, Insider regulation.
Dealing, Whistleblowing, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, Information Security, Fraud, Technology and Cyber risk.
58 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Corporate Governance Board and Committee meetings The number of meetings held during the year and attendance of Directors is set out in the table below.
The Board agrees an annual schedule of matters it wishes to consider at each of its meetings and those of its committees.
The schedule ensures that all relevant matters are considered and receive appropriate attention.
Meetings are normally held at one of the London sites or one of the regional or international offices.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: Operational and functional updates Financial updates Strategy Risk framework and appetite Progress against strategic priorities Other reporting and items for approval Senior Executives and other colleagues are regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
In addition to formal board and committee meetings, meetings take place between: Board members and Management Board members Chairman and Non-executive Directors Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present Our focus during 2015 and some of our plans for 2016 are set out below: 2015 2016 Broadcast strategy focusing on SOV Development of creative talent pipeline International content strategy and market review Review of the North American market Online, Pay & Interactive strategy Viewing trends, including younger viewers Retransmission fees and the regulatory environment International content strategy Viewing trends and global OTT market developments Online and Pay strategy Board and Committee membership and attendance Board and Committee membership and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2015 is set out below.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Tenure at Date of appointment 31 December Status Notes to the Board 2015 Y M Contract renewal date 10 2 6 7 Peter Bazalgette Independent 1 June 2013 2 7 1 June 2016 10 2 6 Adam Crozier Executive 1 26 April 2010 5 8 n a 10 Roger Faxon Independent 2 31 October 2012 3 2 31 October 2016 9 2 Ian Griffiths Executive 1 9 September 2008 7 4 n a 10 Mary Harris Independent 3 28 July 2014 1 5 28 July 2017 9 1 3 Independent Andy Haste SID 11 August 2008 7 5 11 August 2016 10 2 6 7 Independent Archie Norman Chairman 4 1 January 2010 6 0 1 January 2017 10 2 4 John Ormerod Independent 18 January 2008 7 11 18 January 2017 10 2 6 7 1.
Executive Directors have rolling service contracts that provide for 12 months notice on either side.
Roger Faxon did not attend a scheduled Board meeting and the AGM on 14 May 2015 due to family commitments.
Mary Harris was appointed to the Audit Committee on 16 June 2015 and three of the seven scheduled meetings were held prior to her appointment.
Non-attendance at another scheduled meeting was due to other board commitments agreed before her appointment to ITV.
Archie Norman did not attend two scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings due to unavoidable overseas commitments.
Terms of engagement for the Non-executive Directors are available on our website.
com about governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Governance Corporate Governance continued During the year the appointments of management in meeting agreed goals that the Board has a number of new John Ormerod and Andy Haste were and objectives, and monitor the members.
Board members were extended for a further 12 months.
askedfor: Bothhave been Non-executive Directors for over six years.
The Board continues The Board works well together, Views on board effectiveness tobelieve that they bring a wealth of bringingstrong, independent, balanced Feedback on individual board knowledge and experience to their judgement, knowledge and experience members deliberations and both provide a to its deliberations.
Each Non-executive Suggestions for improvement valuable contribution as Chairmen Director has appropriate skills and Personal aspirations around oftheAudit and Remuneration experience so that their views carry contribution to the Board Committees respectively.
significant weight in the decision making.
As part of the process YSC have Anna Manz was appointed as a NonThere are job descriptions in place attended several board meetings executive Director with effect from foreach of the Chairman, the Chief toobserve and will produce a report 1February 2016.
Anna was selected Executive, and the Senior Independent offindings and suggestions for froma number of candidates following Director which have been agreed by development of the Board as a whole arigorous search process.
These are available on and on an individual basis.
isexpected to take approximately During 2015 the Nomination Committee sixmonths.
commenced the succession process for www.
com about governance the Chairman.
Following a robust review Board tenure they concluded that Sir Peter Bazalgette Evaluation The current board tenure is shown in the was the best and most appropriate Internal diagram below.
With his The work of the Board Committees is wealth of experience and unrivalled reviewed annually with the support of 02 years reputation in the media sector, he is well Group Secretariat.
The evaluation takes placed to take the Company forward to the form of face-to-face meetings with its next stage of development.
Sir Peter Board and Committee members eliciting has been on the Board since June 2013 feedback on a wide range of topics.
25 years and has a detailed understanding of Inaddition input is sought from the thebusiness and its issues together Executive Directors, other relevant withvaluable insight on the strategic senior executives and external advisers.
challenges facing ITV and the industrygenerally.
Output is reported to the relevant 58 years Chairman and a report of actions is Executive search firm Zygos were submitted to the Committees and engaged to assist with both search actioned as appropriate.
Zygos have no other connection with ITV.
External In 2012 13 the Board undertook a Board effectiveness boardeffectiveness review facilitated Succession planning and diversity Experience and independence byYSC.
The review was developmentally Succession planning Biographical details for the Directors are focused, both with respect to the The Board has agreed a succession set out on pages 54 and 55, with fuller functioning of the Board and for planning framework which it regularly biographies available on our website.
This resulted reviews to ensure that: in suggestions for the Board to develop www.
com about management its effectiveness which were discussed Board tenure is appropriate and board-of-directors with the Board as a whole and feedback encourages fresh thinking and was provided to individual board newideas The Board is of the view that the members together with additional The Board is sufficiently diverse but Non-executive Directors are independent development sessions.
most importantly has the appropriate in both character and judgement.
mix of generalist and specialist skills Theyconstructively challenge and At the end of 2015 the Board Non-executive Directors have the helpdevelop proposals on strategy, commenced a further effectiveness appropriate level of independence, scrutinise the performance of review, again using YSC, and recognising from the executive and each other 60 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance Report Both John Ormerod and Andy Haste are As part of their professional We regularly seek feedback on the approaching nine years tenure.
The development Executive Directors perception of the Company amongst Board is mindful of this and succession mayaccept external appointments shareholders and the investor planning is under consideration.
asNon-executive Directors of other community more broadly via our companies and retain any related fees corporate brokers.
Investor comments Diversity paid to them.
Details of positions held are fed back to the Board and its It is our policy to retain a strong but and fees received by Executive Directors committees regularly.
relatively small board bringing a balance in 2015 can be found on page 79. of in-depth commercial and creative Private shareholders represent more experience.
It continues to be the Boards Relations with shareholders than 92% of our shareholders, holding intention to increase the diverse The Board attaches a high priority to 2.97% of our shares.
We encourage make-up and representation of its effective communication with shareholders to register their email members as opportunities arise, but shareholders and has regular and open addresses to receive information from given the size of the Board specific dialogue with investors.
The Board us in a timely manner.
formulaic targets are not appropriate.
believes that continued engagement with shareholders is beneficial to both The AGM will be held on Thursday, Induction, training and development ITV and its stakeholders as it helps to 12May 2016 further details can be The Company has a policy and build a greater understanding of found on page 171. programme for induction and continuing investors views, opinions and concerns.
Adam Crozier, Ian Griffiths and the In 2015 the meeting was attended by On appointment, each Director takes Director of Investor Relations meet with 129 shareholders.
Shareholders are part in a comprehensive induction many institutional investors throughout invited to meet the Directors prior to programme.
the year to keep them updated on the and after the formal proceedings.
At Companys performance against our themeeting the Chairman and Chief During their period in office, the strategy.
These range from one-to-one Executive will review the Groups current Directors are continually updated on the meetings to group presentations trading which is followed by a question Groups businesses and the competitive including the Full Year and Interim and answer session.
Separate resolutions and regulatory environments in which results and the AGM.
Specifically, are proposed on each substantially they operate.
This is done through: following the Full Year and Interim separate issue and all resolutions are results one-to-one meetings are held taken on a poll.
Voting can be done Updates and papers which cover with our largest institutional investors.
online or using a form of proxy which changes affecting the Group and issent to all shareholders.
The level of themarket in which it operates The Chairman and Senior Independent votes lodged on each resolution is made Meetings with senior executives Director also respond to shareholder available on a Regulatory Information acrossthe Group and key advisers queries and hold meetings where Service and on the Companys website Regular updates on changes to the appropriate.
assoon as possible after the meeting.
legal and governance requirements Details of voting at the 2015 meeting ofthe Group and in relation to their The Company maintains a programme areavailable on our website.
own position as Directors of engagement with the investment Presentations given at board and community, including results www.
com investors committee meetings on business presentations, briefings to brokers  andother sales forces and attendance matters and technical update ata number of investor conferences.
sessionsfrom external advisers Presentations given to the investment whereappropriate community are available to download from our website.
This is supplemented by visits to UK and international locations.
During 2015 Peter Bazalgette and Roger Faxon www.
com investors visited the ITV Studios office in Los Angeles, Mary Harris visited Talpa in TheNetherlands and The Garden withJohnOrmerod.
A number of the Directors visited the new Coronation Street site in Salford, Manchester.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61
