Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 N R G G 1 Archie Norman 2 Adam Crozier 3 Ian Griffiths Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed: January 2010 Appointed: April 2010 Appointed: September 2008 Key areas of prior experience: Business Key areas of prior experience: Business Key areas of prior experience: turnaround, consumer marketing, turnaround and change management.
Corporate finance and financial international business, corporate finance Current external appointments: restructuring.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Previous experience: Non-executive Non-executive Director of DS Smith Plc.
Chairman of Lazard, London and Director of Debenhams plc and Camelot Previous experience: Group Finance Hobbycraft Group Limited: Director of Group plc: Chief Executive of the Royal Director and other senior finance roles ColesGroup and Target Limited: Advisor Mail Group: Chief Executive ofthe within Emap plc: Manager in audit and to Wesfarmers Limited: Governor of Football Association: Joint Chief Executive corporate finance at Ernst & Young.
theNational Institute of Economic and of Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising.
Previous experience: Founder of Aurigo Management Partners LLP: Chairman of HSSHire Services Group, Energis PLC and Chartwell Land plc: Chief Executive and Chairman of ASDA Group plc: Finance Director of Kingfisher plc: Non-executive Director of British Rail, Railtrackplc and Geest plc: Member of Parliament: Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive ofthe Conservative Party: Shadow Secretary ofState for the Department of Environment, Transport and the Regions: Partner at McKinsey & Company.
54 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Board of Directors Committee membership G General purpose A Audit N Nomination R Remuneration N R N A N 4 Sir Peter Bazalgette 6 Mary Harris 8 Anna Manz Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive director Appointed: June 2013 Appointed: July 2014 Appointed: February 2016 Key areas of prior experience: Media Key areas of prior experience: Business Key areas of prior experience: consultant, digital media investor and management consulting, sales and Strategy and finance and financial former television producer.
marketing, mergers and acquisitions, planning.
Current external appointments: media, television and interactive media Current external appointments: Chairman of the Arts Council of England: investments and digital rights Group Strategy Director at Diageo plc.
Non-executive Director of Nutopia: management.
Previous Experience: President of the Royal Television Current external appointments: Various appointments at Diageo plc Society:Member of an Advisory Board, Non-executive Director of Reckitt including: Regional Finance Director, YouGovplc.
Benckiser Group plc and J. Sainsbury plc: AsiaPacific: Group Treasurer: Finance Previous experience: Non-executive Member of the supervisory board of Director, Global Marketing, Sales and Director and Chairman of the TNTExpress NV and Unibail Rodamco SE.
Innovation: other finance roles at Remuneration Committee and member Previous experience: Member of QuestInternational, Unilever and ICI.
of the Audit Committee of YouGov plc: supervisory board of Scotch and Soda N A R Non-executive Director of Mirriad NV, TNT NV and Irdeto BV.
Partner at 9 John Ormerod Advertising Ltd, DCMS, Rightster, Critical McKinsey & Company, Amsterdam: Non-executive Director, Information Group plc and Channel Four Various positions worldwide with Chairman of the Audit Committee Television Corp: Trustee of DebateMate: McKinsey & Company, Maxwell Appointed: January 2008 Chairman of the ENO and Endemol UK: Entertainment Group, Pepsi Cola Key areas of prior experience: Deputy Chairman and Director of the Beverages and Goldman Sachs & Co. Financialexperience, developing National Film and Television School: strategy andgrowth.
N A R Adviser to Sony Musics television 7 Andy Haste Current external appointments: division: Chairman of the UK production Senior Independent Director, Chairman of First Names Group Limited: business of Sony Pictures Television Inc. : Chairman of the Remuneration Non-executive Director of Constellium Chief Creative Officer at Endemol Group Committee NV: Non-executive Director and BV and Endemol Entertainment Appointed: August 2008 Chairman of the Audit Committee UKLimited.
Key areas of prior experience: ofGemaltoNV.
International and emerging markets, Previous experience: Chairman of Tribal N 5 Roger Faxon change management, restructuring Group plc, Merlin Claims Service Holdings Non-executive Director andbusiness turnaround.
Limited and Wallbrook Group: Senior Appointed: October 2012 Current external appointments: Independent Director of Misys plc: Key areas of prior experience: Broad Chairman of Wonga Group Limited: Trustee of The DesignMuseum and commercial, digital and media rights Senior Independent Deputy Chairman TheRoundhouse Trust: Non-executive experience, development of business ofthe Council of Lloyds.
Director and Chairman of Audit strategy and finance.
Previous experience: Group Chief Committee of Computacenter plc, Current external appointments: Executive of RSA Insurance Group plc: Negative Equity Protection Holdings Chairman of Mirriad Advertising Ltd: Chief Executive of AXA Sun Life plc: Limited, Millen Group Limited and BMS Non-executive Director of Pandora Director of AXA UK plc life and Associated Limited: Member of Audit Media Inc: Director of The John Hopkins pensions : President and Chief Executive and Retail RiskControl Committees University.
Officer of GE Capital Global Consumer ofHBOS plc: Chairman of the Audit Previous experience: Director of EMI FinanceUK, Western Europe and Committee for Transport forLondon: Group Global Limited and EMI Group plc: EasternEurope: President of the US Practice Senior Partner at Deloitte& Chief Executive Officer of EMI Group Consumer Credit Business and Senior Touche: Regional Managing Partner Limited: Chairman and CEO of EMI Music Vice President and Head of the US atArthur Andersen.
Publishing: Director of the Songwriters Consumer LoanProducts Division Hall of Fame: other appointments at ofNational Westminster Bank.
F ull biographies can be found on theAmerican Society of Composers and ourwebsite: www.
com about Authors and Lancit Media Entertainment management board-of-directors Ltd in the US: Chairman of VIVA Television in Germany and Channel V Networks inAsia.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
