Directors Report Nomination Committee Succession planning Dear Shareholder, The Board takes succession planning for both Board members and senior management very seriously.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are members The Nomination Committee ensures that of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by David Tyler.
Mike Coupe is not a member of the Committee although he is invited to attend meetings.
the Board has an effective balance of skills and experience around the Boardroom As stated above, our Board evaluations consider the balance, skills and table.
Succession and diversity at Board diversity of the Board.
They also consider succession planning, reviewing whether it is working effectively.
The evaluation reviews any senior andsenior management levels are key appointment processes during the year and identifies priorities for the aspects of our agenda.
The Committees priorities over recent years have been: We believe we have good balance and diversity amongst our Non-Executive Directors with several having extensive experience of consumer-facing to implement the succession plan for the Chief Executive and ensure a businesses and other highly relevant skills derived from serving in a range of smooth transition: major executive and non-executive positions throughout their careers.
Each to support succession at Operating Board and senior management levels of our Non-Executive Directors has been recruited following a robust selection sothat change can be implemented as smoothly as possible: and process which has been facilitated by Egon Zehnder International, who provide search and recruitment services for the Company.
Following the to manage the appointment process for a new Non-Executive Director to confirmation last year that Gary Hughes would step down at the 2015 AGM, replace Gary Hughes.
the Nomination Committee instructed Egon Zehnder in connection with the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director who would chair the Audit The Committee also oversees the Companys approach to resourcing the Committee from July 2015.
The Committee considered both the balance of needs of the business, developing our colleagues and recruiting new talent.
skills, experience and diversity on the Board, and the specific skills required of an audit committee chairman, in determining the types of candidate who Diversity on a broader basis is an important feature of the Committees might best fit the specification of this role.
Following a thorough search agenda and a detailed summary of the Companys priorities is set out below.
process which involved meetings with the Chairman and other Directors, the Board was delighted to be able to appoint David Keens as a Non-Executive Director on 29 April 2015.
Davids deep financial experience and knowledge ofthe retail sector will be of great benefit to Boarddiscussions.
Our Non-Executive Directors tenure on our Board as at the year-end is as follows: David Tyler Chairman Board tenure Non-Executive Number Percentage 1-2 years 2 29 3-4 years 1 14 4-5 years 1 14 6-7 years 1 14 8-9 years 1 14 9-10 years 1 14 The above table includes the Chairman.
Tenure taken from first AGM appointment.
On an annual basis, the Committee reviews succession plans for the Operating Board, as well as Divisional Director development and talent management.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the website at www.
co. uk investor-centre corporate-governance and set out theCommittees responsibilities.
The Committee meets on such occasions asare necessary and in 2014 15 held two formal meetings and a number ofother updates, particularly relating to the search process for a new Non-Executive Director.
49 Directors Report Nomination Committee continued We aspire to take a leadership approach to disability, commensurate with our Diversity and inclusion Paralympic commitment to create a legacy of greater inclusion for people Our diversity and inclusion vision is to be the most inclusive retailer where with disabilities.
We sit on the Paralympic Legacy Advisory Group and take an people love to work and shop.
We will achieve this aspiration by recruiting, active role in the Governments Disability Confident campaign.
We are Partner retaining and developing diverse and talented people and creating an members of the Business Disability Forum.
In May 2014, all of our inclusive environment where everyone can be the best they can be and supermarkets held a focus day on disability, rolling out our new brand wherediverse views are listened to.
This will enable us to anticipate and standards which will improve the service our disabled customers receive in accommodate the needs of our diverse customers, reflecting the store, and by October 2014 all supermarket stores were in receipt of our communities we serve.
exclusively designed disabled child trolley.
Our You Can programme continues to be successful and has attracted over 24,000 people who have Four Board Sponsors lead our diversity strategy: Roger Burnley gender, faced barriers into work.
Helen Buck race and age, Tim Fallowfied disability and carers and Sarah Warby lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender.
Our Board Sponsors, together We are one of few FTSE 100 companies with a carers policy and have worked with our Group HR Director, Angie Risley, form our Diversity Steering Group.
Last year, over 1,000 Sainsburys stores across The Group leads our strategy, meeting regularly to govern progress.
They are thecountry hosted events for local support and community groups.
We also responsible for updating the Board and Operating Board.
In addition, sponsored the Carers Rights Day Caring for Someone booklet again this year, wehave 160 Diversity Champions who support the agenda in every part and the booklet was made available to our colleagues as well as to other ofour organisation.
We also invested in licences of Carers UKs Jointly App for all our colleagues who are juggling work with caring responsibilities.
We are We are taking active steps to support talented women to develop their careers proud to Chair the Retail Group of the Prime Ministers Dementia Challenge.
in management where, like in many organisations, women are underrepresented.
Our Inspiring Women programme gives colleagues confidence We are members of Stonewalls Diversity Champions programme.
2014 saw that we support their career aspirations and that gender is no barrier to us launch our LGBTA lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allies colleague fulfilling their potential.
The Davies Report recommended that at least 25 per network, with nominated co-chairs, and we held three successful networking cent of Board members should be women by 2015.
We have exceeded this events in the year.
2014 also saw our first official participation in a Pride target for some years and at year-end, women made up 33 per centof our event Brighton Pride.
Board and 30 per cent of our Operating Board.
This compares with an average of 23.5 per cent women on FTSE 100 boards.
Anumber of our senior women also hold non-executive director positions in other organisations.
Over the last 12 months more of our colleagues have signed up to the Inspiring the Future campaign, and we now have over 450 colleagues sharing their careers experience with schools and colleges.
Colleagues Male Female Board at year-end 9 6 66% 3 33% Operating Board 10 7 70% 3 30% Divisional Directors and Senior Managers 204 138 68% 66 32% Company 160,917 71,711 45% 89,206 55% We are Champion members of Race for Opportunity.
14 per cent of the population of England and Wales and 11 per cent of the UK workforce is from a BAME Black Asian Ethnic Minority background.
This compares with 14 per cent of all Sainsburys colleagues.
We are working to increase the representation of BAME colleagues at manager grades by encouraging talented colleagues to progress within the business: for example, through our Inspiring Diverse Talent events and BAME colleagues participating both in Race for Opportunitys cross-organisational mentoring circles and our own internal mentoring networks.
