Directors Report Audit Committee We have also continued to monitor the transition, financial performance and governance of Sainsburys Bank following the completion of our full acquisition of the Bank in January 2014.
We receive updates at every meeting Gary Hughes on the key agenda items discussed at the Banks Audit Committee and Risk Chairman, Committee and the Chairmen of both Committees, and the Banks auditors, Audit Committee have attended meetings of the Committee during the year.
From an accounting and reporting perspective the significant issues considered in detail by the Committee are set out on page 55.
In December 2014, the FRC issued a press notice calling on boards of retailers, suppliers and other businesses to provide investors with sufficient information on their accounting policies, judgements and estimates arising from their complex supplier arrangements.
The Committee continues to review detailed papers from management on the Groups supplier income policies, accounting and analysis of the quantitative impact, by supplier income type, on the Groups results, including the value and volume of transactions.
In light of the guidance, we have included further disclosure on supplier income within our cost of sales accounting policies, judgements and estimates and significant reporting issues considered by the Committee.
We Dear Shareholder, are satisfied that the additional disclosures provide users of the accounts with enough clear and relevant information to be able to evaluate the impact supplier income has on the Companys performance and financial position.
As explained in last years Audit Committee report, a key aspect of the Committees The Committee has always ensured that the identification and management work during the year was to oversee a of all significant risks is embedded across all areas of the business, with continuous and effective oversight from the Operating Board.
We are satisfied formal and comprehensive tender process that the business has maintained robust risk management and internal for the external auditor appointment.
controls, supported by strong overall governance processes, and that management continues to instil a strong risk management culture across the In January 2015, following the completion of the tender process, the Board business.
announced that it intended to recommend to shareholders, for approval atthe 2015 AGM, the appointment of Ernst & Young as the Groups auditor The Companys principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 28 to 30. forthe 52 weeks ending 12 March 2016.
The Groups current auditor, We have reviewed these in detail and are comfortable that the business has  LLP PwC, has continued in the role and has addressed them appropriately within its ongoing operating model and priorities.
undertaken the audit of the Groups consolidated accounts for the 52 weeks ended 14 March 2015.
On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank This is my last report to shareholders as Audit Committee chairman, a role PwC, and specifically the Sainsburys audit partners, for their significant that I have held for ten years.
I am pleased to be handing over to David contribution as the Groups auditor over many years.
Going forward we Keens, and I am sure that his recent and relevant financial experience and his expectan orderly transition and look forward to working with Ernst & Young deepunderstanding of retail businesses will provide strong leadership into the future.
Our audit tender process is described in more detail in the following pages, together with the Committees other principal activities during the year.
In addition to our regular review of risk management and internal controls, we have continued to focus on data governance across the organisation, as a major breach of information security could have a material and significant impact on the business and its reputation.
The Committee has received Gary Hughes regular presentations on data governance from throughout the business, Chairman, Audit Committee andwill continue to do so.
53 Directors Report Audit Committee continued Committee membership April Year-end accounting and tax update, including going concern review The Audit Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes, with Susan Rice and Matt Litigation report Brittin as its other members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Annual Report and Financial Statements Directors.
The Board has determined that Gary Hughes has recent and Non-audit services and fees relevant financial experience.
The Chairman, Mike Coupe, John Rogers, Susannah Hall Director of Internal Audit, other senior members of the PwC year-end report and required communications Finance Division and the external auditors are invited to attend Committee External auditors appointment meetings.
Tim Fallowfield is secretary to the Committee.
Internal controls framework and fraud update Sainsburys Bank report David Keens was appointed to the Board on 29 April 2015 as a Non-Executive Sainsburys Bank audit committee overview Director.
He will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee when Gary Hughes steps down as a Director at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee considered the key matters related to the progress of the Banks transition following acquisition.
To enable the Committee to receive assurance, The Committees terms of reference are available on the website at it receives updates on the key agenda items discussed at the Banks Audit www.
Committee and on all important operating and regulatory matters, including its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management processes, Activities during the year atevery meeting.
Representatives from the Bank Audit Committee and the During the year, the Committee has considered a number of matters under Bank Risk Committee now attend meetings of the Committee at least twice the general headings below.
It monitored the integrity of the financial ayear.
statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewed any significant financial judgements contained in them.
Within the accounting update it considered the progress At each meeting, the Committee receives a report on the internal controls of the external audit tender, supplier income accounting and proposed framework and the Internal Audit departments activities.
This year, it disclosure, provisions made by the Company, dilapidations of properties and received information on major change projects, data security, business land, impairments, and pensions.
In addition, the Committee regularly continuity planning and details of any invocation of the business continuity reviewed the Companys funding and liquidity position and has considered management team.
The Committee reviews the quarterly results of the store itsimpact on the Companys financial and operational capabilities.
The safe and legal audits to ensure that appropriate standards are being Committees detailed review of the year-end position assisted the Board in maintained.
The Committee has also continued to review data governance making the going concern statement set out on page 80. across the organisation and has received regular presentations and updates.
The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit which The Committee also reviews: reflects the Companys reporting cycle: the effectiveness of the Companys financial controls and the systems of Standard items internal control by approving the Internal Audit plans twice yearly, reviewing the findings quarterly and by reviewing the scope of work and September Accounting and tax update reports of the external auditors.
The detailed actions for resolution of any PwC performance review identified weaknesses are closely monitored by the Committee through to Data governance and security update completion: and Internal controls framework and fraud update Risk management update the management of risk by reviewing the risk assessment process and Sainsburys Bank report corporate and divisional risk maps and registers twice yearly.
These form Sainsburys Bank audit committee overview an element of the Internal Audit planning process.
Sainsburys Bank risk management report PwC audit plan, audit strategy and fees Full descriptions of the risk management and internal controls processes are Terms of reference update set out below.
Annual review and benchmarking of the Finance Division Non-audit fees The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that arrangements are in Internal Audit Half Year Plan place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about possible November Half-year accounting and tax update, including going improprieties on a confidential basis.
All issues raised have been investigated concern review and appropriate actions taken.
Any significant issues are highlighted to the PwC Interim review report Audit Committee.
Draft Interim Statement Litigation report The Company has a fraud policy and a Serious Fraud Committee, which Internal controls framework and fraud update convenes in the event of serious incidents to oversee case management and Sainsburys Bank report ensure appropriate actions are taken.
The Audit Committee receives a fraud Sainsburys Bank audit committee overview update at each meeting.
Sainsburys Bank risk management report Non-audit services and fees Fair, balanced and understandable assessment March Accounting and tax update One of the key compliance requirements of the Code is for the Board to Litigation report confirm that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is Data governance update fair, balanced and understandable see page 76.
To enable the Board to make Internal controls framework and fraud update this declaration, a formal process is embedded in the year-end review process Internal Audit Plan to ensure the Committee, and the Board as a whole, has access to all relevant Risk management update information and, in particular, managements papers on significant issues Principal risks and uncertainties faced by the business.
The Committee receives a paper from management PwC internal financial controls report detailing the approach taken in the preparation of the Annual Report and PwC report on auditor independence Financial Statements, highlighting areas where it has met the requirements Non-audit services and fees of the Code.
The Committee, and all other Board members, also receive drafts Sainsburys Bank report of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in sufficient time to facilitate Sainsburys Bank audit committee overview their review and enable them to challenge the disclosures where necessary.
Sainsburys Bank risk management report Inaddition, the Groups external auditors review the consistency between the narrative reporting of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
54 Directors Report Financial statements and significant issues Significant financial and reporting issue How the issue has been addressed An accounting and tax paper is prepared by management and presented to Supplier Where consideration is required for the time period to the Audit Committee four times a year, which provides detail on the main income recognise the supplier income over, or thresholds are required financial reporting judgements and issues.
Specific accounting papers have continued to be met in order to recognise the income, the judgement also been prepared when considered necessary.
The Committee reviewed managements paper and is comfortable with the controls in Significant financial and reporting issues considered in the year, in no place to manage this judgement and estimation.
particular order, were as follows: As a result of the increased focus on supplier income, additional disclosures have been included in the cost of sales Significant financial and reporting issue How the issue has been addressed accounting policy and the judgements and estimates section of note 2 on page 94, including detailed explanations of the Impairment As disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, a review types of supplier income Sainsburys receives.
of financial for impairment triggers is performed at each reporting date and nonby considering if any current or future events suggest the We reviewed the different and varied supplier income disclosures financial recoverable value of certain assets may be less than their given by the other companies to date.
We concluded not to assets carrying value.
The impact of adapting to our changing disclose the quantum of supplier income within the Group customer needs and analysis of unprofitable and marginally income statement as this information is commercially sensitive.
profitable trading stores were identified as trigger events We concluded not to disclose the quantum of supplier income prior to the interim results reporting date.
This resulted in the within the balance sheet as the amounts are considered to be estimation of the recoverable amount ofall impacted assets not significant in the context of the balance sheet as a whole to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
The and give no further understanding or comparability to other Committee reviewed managements assessment of companies for the reader of the financial statements.
recoverable value and the assumptions and judgements made.
As a result, a 628 million non-cash impairment and The Committee remains satisfied that reasonable judgements have been onerous contract charge has been recognised during the year made by management and adequate disclosures provided where appropriate.
to write down the value of certain store pipeline and trading Internal Audit store assets, as disclosed in note 3.
The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments Pensions The Committee reviewed a summary of the key assumptions resources, budget, work programme, results and managements accounting used in arriving at a valuation for the defined benefit pension implementation of its recommendations.
scheme for both half-year and year-end reporting.
The Director of Internal Audit, Susannah Hall, reports to the Committee The Committee reviewed the key assumptions driving the Chairman and has direct access to all members of the Committee and the movement in the retirement benefit funded obligations Chairman.
She is given the opportunity after each meeting to meet with the including inflation, discount and mortality rates.
The Committee separately without management being present.
She has regular assumptions are also benchmarked to ensure they are meetings with all Committee members.
The purpose, authority and reasonable.
responsibility of Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter.
Items The Committee is satisfied that the Groups definition of items TheCommittee reviews the Charter annually.
excluded excluded from underlying results remains clear and further External Audit from disclosure is included where appropriate.
The definition remains The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC overall work underlying consistent with the prior year and in the current year the plan, and approved their remuneration and terms of engagement.
It results Committee has been involved in assessing the appropriateness considered in detail the results of the audit, PwC performance and of including impairment, onerous lease and contract charges independence and the effectiveness of the overall audit process.
and restructuring within this disclosure, on the basis that they are one-off material items not relating to the Groups ongoing External Audit tender activities.
Please refer to note 3 for further detail.
Last year, we advised that PwC had been the Companys auditors since 1995.
Sainsburys The Committee receives updates on the key agenda items In line with the changes made to the Code in 2012, which recommended that Bank discussed at the Banks Audit Committee and Board Risk the external audit is put out to tender at least every ten years, we advised that an external tender would commence after the AGM, for the 2015 16 audit.
reporting Committee including accounting judgements and estimates PwC were not invited to participate in the audit tender.
and on all important operating and regulatory matters including its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk The tender process, initiated in July 2014, involved an audit tender team led management processes.
Representatives from the Bank by Gary Hughes, and comprising David Tyler Chairman, John Rogers Chief Audit Committee and the Bank Board Risk Committee Financial Officer and Ed Barker Director of Group Finance, as well as support attend meetings of the Committee at least twice a year.
from representatives of the Finance, IT, Procurement, Legal and Corporate Representatives from the Internal Audit team attend as Secretarial teams.
Three firms participated in the process which included an requested.
Expression of Interest, Request for Proposal RFP and a presentation followed by a questions and answers session.
The firms were given the opportunity to meet During the year the accounting judgements and estimates with management across the business enabling a detailed proposal document reviewed by the Committee have included impairment to be prepared by each firm incorporating an audit and transition plan, team assessments of the loans and advances due from Sainsburys structure, approach to working with management, independence assessment Bank customers, progress on the Bank transition, tax and details of the firms credentials, team experience and cost proposals.
Detailed evaluation criteria and a scoring matrix were used to assist the Supplier Supplier income has historically been discussed and Committee in making its decision, which included input from all income during the current year, the Committee reviewed the latest management meetings.
Following the conclusion of the formal tender management supplier income paper.
This summarised the process in January, the Board announced its intention to recommend to types of supplier income, how each is accounted for, the key shareholders, for approval at the 2015 AGM, the appointment of Ernst & judgements and estimates involved in recognition and how Young LLP as the Groups auditor for the 52 weeks ending 12 March 2016. these are managed by the business to ensure appropriate accounting can be applied.
The majority of supplier income Independence is calculated based on an agreed discount per individual unit In order to ensure their independence, the Committee has overseen the sale, resulting in a mechanical process with no judgement Companys policy which restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to and estimation.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by PwC 55 Directors Report Audit Committee continued during 2014 15 was audit related assurance services such as the interim review responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee as outlined and the provision of accounting advice, which totalled 0.1 million.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of PwC earned fees for other non-audit work of 0.1million.
The audit fee for the failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide year in respect of the Group, Company and its subsidiaries totalled 1.0 million.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee remains satisfied with PwCs independence and their overall The risk management process and the system of internal controls have been challenge to management.
Ernst & Young have confirmed their independence in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of the Annual Report in preparation for their appointment as Auditors following the 2015 AGM.
and Financial Statements, and accord with the Turnbull guidance and the UK The policy was reviewed during the year and is consistent with the Auditing Corporate Governance Code.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards No.
The policy is The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have an controls and has ensured that any required remedial action on any identified impact on the external auditors independence and objectivity.
It identifies weaknesses has been, or is being, taken.
certain types of engagement that the external auditors shall not undertake, including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the preparation of Risk management accounting estimates for the financial statements.
It also requires that Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk management individual engagements above a certain fee level may only be undertaken system is designed to identify key risks and to provide assurance that these risks with appropriate authority from the Committee Chairman or the Committee.
are fully understood and managed.
The effectiveness of the process is reviewed The policy also recognises that there are some types of work, such as twice a year by the Audit Committee.
The Board carries out an annual review of accounting and tax advice, where a detailed understanding of the Companys the significant risks facing the business, which includes reviewing risk appetite.
The policy is designed to ensure that the Auditor is only appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered to be the The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk register which is most suitable supplier of the service.
The Committee receives a report at each reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and formally discussed with meeting on the non-audit services being provided and the cumulative total of the Board.
The risk register contains the significant risks faced by the non-audit fees.
In the event that cumulative non-audit fees exceed the audit business and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross fee then all subsequent non-audit expenditure must be approved by the level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after Committee Chairman.
This gives the Board the opportunity to review the level of risk that the business is prepared to accept.
The register Sainsburys Bank also contains the assurance provided over current key mitigating controls.
Sainsburys Bank is a subsidiary of the Company which has an independent Where further actions have been identified to mitigate risks to a level deemed board responsible for setting the Banks strategy, risk appetite and annual acceptable, these are agreed with specific timelines for delivery and progress business plan as well as the day-to-day management of the business.
The on implementation of these actions is monitored.
Board of the Bank has an independent Chairman and a majority of The risk management process is embedded at the Operating Board level and independent Non-Executive Directors.
through the review of the risk registers of each of the operating divisions of The Bank will continue to provide to each Audit Committee an update on the business: performance and the chairs of the Banks Audit Committee and Risk the divisional operating management teams are responsible for managing Committee will present to the Audit Committee at least twice a year.
There is the risks to their business objectives and for identification and alignment between the Sainsburys Internal Audit function and their implementation of internal controls so as to provide reasonable, but not colleagues within Sainsburys Bank equivalent team.
absolute, assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: Grocery Supply Code of Practice this divisional risk process is achieved through twice yearly workshops In February 2010, a new Grocery Supply Code of Practice GSCOP was held by the divisional management and facilitated by Internal Audit.
Each implemented following the recommendation of the Competition divisional management team produces and maintains a divisional key risk Commission.
Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint a Code register.
The likelihood and impact of each key risk is evaluated, Compliance Officer whose duties include hearing disputes between suppliers managements risk appetite is discussed and any further actions deemed and the relevant retailer.
Sainsburys appointed the Director of Internal Audit necessary to mitigate the risk are identified.
In addition, the risks and the as its Code Compliance Officer.
robustness of the mitigating controls are regularly reviewed by divisional GSCOP requires that each grocery retailer to which it applies delivers an annual management as part of their normal business activities: compliance report to the Groceries Code Adjudicator which has been approved management certify annually that they are responsible for managing by the Chair of the Audit Committee.
Furthermore, a summary of the compliance their business objectives and that the internal controls are such that they report must be included in our Annual Report and Financial Statements.
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: Summary Annual Compliance Report Sainsburys has invested significant time and resource in providing the Operating Board reviews and challenges the output of the divisional risk comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required under GSCOP process and then updates the overall corporate risk register as appropriate: which is reinforced by online knowledge testing.
Sainsburys has also dedicated game-changer and horizon scanning risk workshops are held annually to internal resource to provide all relevant colleagues with day-to-day advice and focus on external and unknown risks.
Key themes and outputs from these guidance.
The Trading Division, in consultation with the Legal Services Team are reviewed by the Operating Board and the potential impact on key risks and the Code Compliance Officer, continues to assess the adequacy of policies is discussed: and procedures in place to support GSCOP awareness and compliance.
the corporate and divisional risk registers form the basis of the risk based A small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP have been received in the plan of Internal Audit for the subsequent half-year period: reporting period, which were dealt with within the Trading Division using our Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management and the standard internal escalation procedure.
Two of these alleged breaches were Audit Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk referred to the Code Compliance Officer.
management process: and the Board reviews the risk process and corporate risks in May and Risk management and internal controls approvesthe Companys Principal Risks and Uncertainties as set out on The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of pages 28 to 30. internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain of these 56 Directors Report Risk Management Process Divisions Operating Board Audit Committee plc Board Internal Audit January 1 2 Operating Board Divisional Risk February Risk Review Workshops 3 review challenge assess key risks divisional risk to their business output and update objectives corporate risk register as appropriate March Audit Committee Internal Audit review corporate risk-based and divisional risks half-year plan and sign-off Principal Risks and Uncertainties May Management plc Board annual certification review of risk that risks in their process, corporate areas of responsibility risks and sign-off are identified, of Principal Risks evaluated and and Uncertainties managed June 4 Horizon Scanning and Game-Changer Risk Workshops focus on external and unknown risks July 1 2 Divisional Risk Operating Workshops Board Annual assess key risks 4 Risk Workshop to their business assessment of key objectives corporate risks and risk appetite discussion August 2 Operating Board Risk Review review challenge divisional risk output and update corporate risk register as appropriate September Audit Internal Audit Committee risk-based review corporate half-year plan and divisional risks Output Output Output Output 1 2 3 4 Divisional risk Corporate risk Principal Risk and Uncertainties The risk management process feeds into the maps and registers map and register reflecting key corporate risks Company strategy, plan and objectives Internal controls regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives and The system of internal control encompasses all controls, including those mitigating controls and actions: relating to financial reporting processes including the preparation of the regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope consolidated Group accounts, operational and compliance controls and those and results of the work of Internal Audit across the Company and of the relating to risk management processes.
It also includes the controls over implementation of their recommendations: Sainsburys interests in joint ventures.
regular reviews by the Audit Committee of the scope and results of the The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls work of the external auditors and of any significant issues arising: systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made.
regular reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels The processes used during the year to support this assessment are as follows: of delegated authority: and discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategy, plans regular reviews by the Board and the Audit Committee of material and objectives, and the risks to achieving them: fraudulent activity and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues or review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including suppliers and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses.
those for both revenue and capital expenditure: 57
