Directors Report Corporate Governance conclusions and action plan from our last external Board evaluation by Manchester Square Partners in January 2014.
This years review is described in detail below.
We are now working through an action plan to build on our David Tyler strong foundations.
Chairman Succession We take succession at Board and senior management level very seriously and we believe that we have a good record of identifying the resourcing needs of the business, developing our own people, attracting external talent and planning and implementing change.
This is reflected in the smooth CEO transition from Justin King to Mike Coupe.
Since I became Chairman in November 2009, we have appointed four new Non-Executive Directors who have brought new skills and experience to the Board, as well as adding to our Board diversity.
As I explained last year, we were keen to ensure that we had a stable Non-Executive team to support Mike in the year of transition following his appointment and, accordingly, we asked Gary Hughes to remain on the Board until this years AGM.
Gary has been a highly effective Board member and Chairman of our Audit Committee for ten years and the Board thanks him for his very valuable contribution over this time.
Dear Shareholder, We announced in April that David Keens would be joining the Board and that This has been a year of change for the he would take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee following Garys departure.
I am delighted to welcome him to the Board.
His extensive retail Company, particularly with Mike Coupes knowledge gained as Finance Director at Next plc for 24 years will add succession as CEO in July 2014, and it considerably to the Boards discussions, while his deep, up-to-date financial comes at a time when our market is facing experience will ensure strong leadership of our Audit Committee inthe future.
It has therefore As part of our succession planning, the Nomination Committee has a clear been a busy year for the Board which is plan for John McAdams succession.
John will reach the ninth anniversary of his appointment at the 2015 AGM.
The Board believes that it is in described in detail on the following pages.
shareholders best interests for him to remain on the Board for another year, until the 2016 AGM, ensuring that we benefit from Johns vast experience.
I would especially like to draw shareholders attention to the following key The Board believes that John continues to make a major contribution to the activities that we have focused on during the year.
Company, both as a Non-Executive Director and as our Senior Independent Last year, I described the Boards succession planning in preparation for Director and that he remains independent in every respect, notwithstanding Justin Kings departure in July 2014.
One of our key priorities has been to the time that he has spent on the Board.
In the next 12 months, we expect to ensure and support a smooth transition to Mike from Justin.
Mike has appoint a Non-Executive Director who will succeed John when he steps down made a strong start and he is leading a highly experienced and capable from the Board in July 2016.
The Nomination Committee will oversee our management team which has driven the business forward very effectively planning for this appointment during the year.
Mike and his management team have developed a new strategy designed Diversity to create value for shareholders at a time of change in our industry.
The We continue to have three women on our Board 33 per cent as at year-end Boards engagement, challenge and approval of the strategy was a key and three on our Operating Board 30 per cent, exceeding the aspirational aspect of its year.
target of the Davies Report that 25 per cent of the Board positions at FTSE100 companies should be filled by women by 2015.
Our diversity We have also managed succession planning amongst our Non-Executive continues to be one of our strengths and is based on the number of women Directors.
In April, we announced that David Keens would join the Board who have been appointed on merit throughout the organisation.
Our diversity and take over as Audit Committee Chairman from Gary Hughes with effect has exceeded the Davies Report target and, importantly, it is appropriate for from our AGM in July.
The Nomination Committee has clear plans for Sainsburys and its customer base.
future Non-Executive succession which are set out below.
The Audit Committees report on its key activities is set out on pages We believe that we have a committed and challenging Board and that our 53 - 57 including a detailed summary of the audit tender process strong governance, culture and values hold us in good stead for the future.
that the Committee carried out during the year.
This has led to our recommendation to shareholders that Ernst & Young should succeed PwCas our auditors with effect from the forthcoming AGM.
In this year of change, the Remuneration Committee continues to be focused on ensuring that there is a direct link between pay and performance in the areas most valued by our shareholders.
Mary Harris letter to David Tyler shareholders and our Remuneration Report are set out on pages 58 - 73.
Chairman As a Board, we take governance very seriously and we regularly discuss and review our ways of working and our effectiveness.
In March, we carried out a comprehensive internal review of our performance which built upon the 44 Directors Report Strategic leadership Compliance The Board has given particular focus to strategic matters during the year, The following sections explain how the Company applies the main principles of the given the fundamental structural change in the sector and the appointment UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board is committed to strong of Mike Coupe as Chief Executive.
We held a two day Strategy Conference governance and, during the year the Company has complied with all the provisions of inthe autumn which all the Board and Operating Board Directors attended.
This enabled the Board to conduct an in-depth review of the sector, the In last years Annual Report, we explained that Gary Hughes would reach the ninth structural and cyclical changes in it, and the latest customer insights.
anniversary of his appointment at the AGM in July 2014.
The Board had concluded that it TheBoard evaluated key opportunities and threats, the five year corporate was in shareholders best interests for him to remain on the Board for another year until plan, including cost savings, capital expenditure and balance sheet the 2015 AGM in order to maintain Board stability as the Company went through the projections.
Our brokers UBS and Morgan Stanley, and our investor relations important period of transition from Justin King to Mike Coupe.
This would also enable advisers Makinson Cowell, attended for part of the meeting in order to provide Gary to play a key role in the audit tender which was planned for later in 2014.
The an external view of the sector.
The Board also considered plans for Grocery Board concluded that Gary was independent in every respect, notwithstanding the Online, the Digital & Technology strategy and Sainsburys Bank.
The decisions time he had spent on the Board.
made at the conference led to the approval of the strategy presented by Mike During the year Gary has continued to make an outstanding contribution and in November, which is fully described on pages 6 to 27. todemonstrate his independence.
He will stand down at the AGM in July 2015 and DavidKeens will succeed him as Audit Committee Chairman.
The Board receives regular updates on progress against the agreed strategy and, in July, will agree the objectives and principal areas of focus for the next conference.
Specific projects are considered at other meetings during the year The role of the Board as necessary.
During the year, the Board approved the Netto joint venture The Board is chaired by David Tyler and, at the year-end, there were two with Dansk Supermarked and received regular updates on the progress of Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
John McAdam is the Sainsburys Banks transition programme.
The Directors biographical details are set out onpage 41.
Performance management Performance against delivery of the agreed key targets is reviewed at every The Boards key focus in helping to create long-term sustainable value for meeting, with particular reference to the detailed Group management shareholders is on strategic leadership, performance management, investor accounts.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer comment on the relations, risk management, governance and succession planning, each of market and current trading at each meeting and present comparative data which is described below.
The Board has a scheduled forward programme of and customer insight.
meetings to ensure that we can allocate sufficient time to each of these key areas.
This enables us to plan Board and Committee meetings appropriately Risk management and use the Boards time together most effectively.
There is sufficient The Board reviews the Companys principal risks on an annual basis, in flexibility in the programme for specific items to be added to any particular addition to receiving regular updates on risk management and internal agenda and this ensures that the Board can focus on the key matters relating controls from the Chairman of the Audit Committee after each Committee to the business at the appropriate time.
meeting see page 56 for further details.
The Board also receives an annual update on all matters relating to safety, supported by quarterly updates, The Boards scheduled forward programme includes the following items, together with updates on other relevant controls and governance.
Any some of which are considered at each meeting, and others are reviewed specific issues on these and other matters which might affect the Companys periodically throughout the year: reputation are reported to the Board as they occur.
Annual budget Dividend policy and HR policy a nd update Investor relations recommendations The Board receives an annual independent survey from Makinson Cowell, Pensions Corporate five year which reports on the views of major shareholders and analysts, together with plan Committee reports Project updates updates at each Board meeting on the Investor Relations IR programme CEO Report and Investor Relations Treasury and tax and feedback from major shareholders, particularly following each major trading update policy Strategic items announcement of the Companys results.
See page 47 for further details.
Governance Financial items Safety reports Risk management Preliminary and Health & Safety and Division of responsibilities Interim results Food Board evaluation There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Annual Report Customer insights Public Affairs Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
As set out above, There are also a number of informal meetings of the Board, which enable we ensure that the Board has sufficient time to allocate to its key areas of allthe Directors to spend more time together and to discuss specific areas focus throughout the annual cycle of Board meetings.
The Chairman ensures ofthe business with individual Operating Board members and other effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the seniorexecutives.
He facilitates the contribution of the NonExecutive Directors through a culture of openness and debate, and ensures Our annual Board evaluation exercise enables us to review whether Board constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
meetings are structured with a clear focus on the key issues facing the Company, with a full and open debate before major decisions are taken.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Weensure that all Directors are aware of the key discussions and decisions Company and executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
He creates ofeach of the four principal Committees, partly by the Chairman of each aframework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the Committee providing a detailed summary to all Directors at the Board successful delivery of results, and allocates decision making and meeting following the relevant Committee meeting.
Minutes of Board and responsibilities accordingly.
He manages the risk profile in line with the risk Committee meetings are circulated to Directors shortly after those meetings appetite and categories of risk identified and accepted by the Board.
The Board has a schedule of formally reserved powers, which it a leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external reviews each year, and receives a number of in-depth presentations during agencies and in promoting Sainsburys.
45 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued During the year, the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided Independence updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, Directors duties and The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial experience to obligations, and new legislation and its impact on the Company.
The Audit Board and Committee deliberations.
On appointment they confirm that they Committee regularly considers new accounting developments through will have sufficient time available to be able to discharge their responsibilities presentations from management and the external auditors.
They are appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to included updates on the external audit tender, changes to the UK Corporate election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment and Governance Code applicable to the Group for the 2015 16 financial year, re-election at each AGM thereafter, after which their appointment may be including the requirement for a viability statement and changes to risk extended for further terms, subject to mutual agreement.
All members of the management disclosures, Financial Reporting Council guidance on complex Board, other than Gary Hughes, will retire and seek election or re-election by supplier arrangement disclosures and current and future accounting standard shareholders at this years AGM in accordance with the Code.
changes, such as the new consolidation standards, revenue recognition and lease accounting.
The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his appointment to the Board in October 2009 and all the Non-Executive The Board programme includes regular presentations from management and Directors are considered to be independent.
John McAdam reaches the ninth informal meetings which increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding anniversary of his appointment at the AGM in July.
The Board has concluded of the business and the sector.
During the year, the Board held a meeting at that it is in shareholders best interests for him to remain on the Board for Oscar Mayer Ferndale, a major supplier to the Company of ready meals, another year until the 2016 AGM.
The Board is convinced that John, who has received a presentation on their long standing relationship with Sainsburys been our Senior Independent Director since his appointment, continues to and toured their facility in Erith, Kent.
Directors have also visited stores and make an outstanding contribution to theCompany.
other sites as part of their continuing engagement with the business.
The Board has specifically considered the executive or non-executive roles All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
that some of the Non-Executive Directors have with companies who may be He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and in competition with, or suppliers to, Sainsburys.
The Board is satisfied that forgovernance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company the independence of the Directors who have executive or non-executive roles Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed with other companies is not compromised and that they all have sufficient procedure by which members of the Board may take independent time available to devote to the Company.
professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of theirduties.
Directors conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 provides that directors must avoid a situation where Board evaluation they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly The 2013 14 annual evaluation was conducted on an external basis when may conflict, with the companys interests.
Directors of public companies may Manchester Square Partners MSP who had no other relationship with authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys Sainsburys led the review.
This was described in detail in last years Annual articles of association permit.
The Board has established procedures for the Report, including the key themes that emerged.
MSP concluded that the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts, and also for the consideration Board functioned extremely well and in line with first class corporate and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
In accordance with the Act, governance, operating as a team with shared values, open dialogue, strong the Board considered and authorised each Directors reported potential levels of trust, respect and collaboration, but also appropriate challenge.
conflicts of interest during the year.
Whenever a Director takes on additional TheBoard identified some areas that would remain on the agenda following external responsibilities, the Board considers any potential conflicts that may the MSP report, including decision making processes, Board succession and arise and whether the Director continues to have sufficient time to fulfil his or Chief Executive transition, engagement with broader management and rising her role as a Director of the Company.
The Board will continue to monitor and talent, and continued focus on our Digital strategy and Sainsburys Bank.
review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
The Board agreed that the 2014 15 review should be carried out by the Information Company Secretary, who has previously facilitated a number of internal The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed evaluation exercises.
The Board is satisfied that these internal reviews follow on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access an established process which enables a thorough review with full and open to relevant information.
The quality and supply of information provided to the participation from all Directors.
The key objectives were to determine whether Board is reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The conclusion progress had continued on the key points raised by MSP, to identify any from this years evaluation was that Board processes and documentation emerging themes in a key year of transition, and to consider whether the continue to be thorough and comprehensive.
Board and its Committees were working effectively.
Directors induction and development A questionnaire was circulated to all Directors seeking their evaluation of a number of matters, including strategy, Board and management succession, We have a programme for meeting Directors training and development Board culture, balance and diversity, meetings and processes, investor relations, requirements.
decision making, risk management and Board committees.
This was followed up in separate discussions with each of the Directors to take their detailed Newly appointed Directors who do not have previous public company feedback on any emerging themes.
The Company Secretary then presented experience at Board level are provided with detailed training on their role and the principal conclusions to the Board at a meeting convened for that responsibilities.
All new Directors participate in a comprehensive and tailored purpose, and the Board discussed the key points and agreed certain actions.
induction programme including store and depot visits and meetings with other members of the Board, members of the Operating Board, senior management and external advisers.
The induction programme includes a full review of corporate responsibility and the Companys values and culture.
This programme is ongoing for Non-Executive Directors who often meet members of the management team on an individual basis to continue to build their knowledge of the Company, or visit stores, depots and suppliers.
Subsequent training is available on an ongoing basis to meet any particular needs.
Following his appointment to the Board in April 2015, David Keens induction programme includes each of these aspects.
46 Directors Report The Board recognised that the last year had seen significant change, Investor relations particularly regarding the appointment of Mike Coupe and the transition The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with to a new Operating Board, and the announcement of the new strategy.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of Mike Coupe, TheBoard was satisfied that the transition had made good progress and that John Rogers and Duncan Cooper, Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman is Mike and the management team were well placed to lead the business in this generally available to shareholders and meets with institutional and other period of significant change for the sector.
In addition: large investors: the Senior Independent Director is also available as required.
Given the scale of change in the sector the Board agreed to continue to The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional devote more time to reviewing the implementation of the strategy.
shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, are invited to The Board considered a number of key decisions that it had made during presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of the the year and concluded that its decision making processes were robust.
Companys interim and full-year results.
They are also invited to participate in conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading The Board would continue to develop strong links to the broader statements.
The content of these presentations and conference calls are management team.
The Board met the Operating Board on several webcast and are posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk occasions during the year, and the combination of formal and informal investor-centre so as to be available to all investors.
sessions was an effective means of understanding management priorities.
The Board will be visiting the new Daventry Distribution Centre in June The Board receives feedback at each Board meeting on the views of major 2015, and the new Sainsburys Bank offices in September 2015, which will investors and the Investor Relations IR programme.
In addition, Makinson provide opportunities to engage with the relevant management teams.
Cowell provide investor relations consultancy services to the Company and Other opportunities to meet management have also been identified over external analysis to the Board on the views of institutional investors and the course of the year.
Non-Executive Directors also receive regular market reports There were clear succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors.
This and broker updates from the Companys IRdepartment.
would enable an orderly transition from long serving Non-Executives to new appointees, including the handover from Gary Hughes to David Keens Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the as Audit Committee Chairman.
The succession plans regarding John AGM, which this year will be held on 8 July 2015.
There will be a display of McAdam were also clear and fully considered.
various aspects of the Companys activities and Mike Coupe will make a business presentation.
A detailed explanation of each item of special business The Board continued to operate very effectively with a good balance and to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will diversity, and a strong culture reflecting Sainsburys values, with Directors be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All working well together with a high degree of trust and integrity.
resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those As part of the Board Evaluation exercise, the Senior Independent Director of shareholders who attend the meeting.
reviewed the Chairmans performance with the other Directors and subsequently met him to provide feedback.
The Chairman provided feedback Information on matters of particular interest to small shareholders is set out to each Director on their individual contributions to the Board and, with each on pages 142 to 144 and on the Companys website of them, considered their development priorities.
Attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
The Board scheduled eight meetings during the year, including the two-day Strategy Conference, and additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
The Nomination Committee also received a number of updates, outside of its scheduled meetings, relating to the search process for a new Non-Executive Director.
Audit CR&S Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Matt Brittin 8 8 5 5 2 2 Mike Coupe 8 8 1 1 Mary Harris 8 8 2 2 2 2 6 6 Gary Hughes 8 8 5 5 2 2 Justin King 2 2 1 1 John McAdam 7 8 2 2 6 6 Susan Rice 8 8 5 5 2 2 John Rogers 8 8 Jean Tomlin 8 8 2 2 2 2 6 6 David Tyler 8 8 2 2 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
As referred to above, there were a number of informal meetings during the year when Directors met individual members of the Operating Board to receive updates on their specific areas of responsibility.
In addition, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors being present, and the Non-Executive Directors also met without the Executive Directors or the Chairman being present.
47 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Operating Board The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Operating Board and Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Operating Board, to the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility and which is chaired by Mike Coupe.
The Operating Board held ten scheduled Sustainability Committees.
The terms of reference for each Committee are meetings during the year and each Directors responsibilities are set out on available on the website www.
It has formal terms of reference setting out its key responsibilities.
The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading Board, the Investment Board, the Group Safety Committee, the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Steering Group, the Diversity Steering Group and the Data Governance Committee, each of which has approved terms of reference setting out its areas of responsibility.
J Sainsbury plc Board David Tyler PLC Committees Operating Board Audit Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Nomination Mike Coupe Committee Sustainability Committee Committee Committee Gary Hughes Jean Tomlin Mary Harris David Tyler Operating Board Committees Corporate Data Responsibility Trading Investment Group Safety Diversity Governance and Sustainability Board Board Committee Steering Group Committee Steering Group Sarah Warby John Rogers Tim Fallowfield Angie Risby Tim Fallowfield Mike Coupe 48
