Governance Corporate Governance Report Compliance with good corporate governance is important to effective leadership and promoting the success of the Group.
This report sets out how the Company has applied The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically the main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance to it for decisions which include major strategic matters, approval Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals and significant 2012 the Code and the extent to which the Company has capital projects.
complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Board has chosen The Board delegates certain powers to Board Committees as not to adopt early the provisions of the UK Corporate set out below.
Governance Code published in September 2014 New Code Board papers are circulated to Directors prior to Board meetings but will seek to apply the New Code during the 2015 2016 which include up-to-date financial information, reports from the financial year.
Executive Directors and papers on major issues for consideration by the Board.
The Board has a formal procedure for Directors to The Board obtain independent professional advice.
The Board currently consists of four Directors: an Executive Chairman, one other Executive Director and two Non-Executive All Board members have full access to the Company Secretary who is a fully admitted solicitor and attends all Board and Directors.
Martin Davies is the senior independent Non-Executive Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible Director.
The name, position and brief profile of each Director is for advising the Board on Corporate Governance matters.
Barry Bown who held the position of Chief Executive, stepped down from the Board on 30 May 2014. appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole to determine.
Jane Brisley resigned as The composition of the Board is kept under review and changes the Company Secretary and was replaced by Andrew Batchelor are made when appropriate and in the best interests of the with effect from 24 September 2014.
The Board considers that its composition during the year All newly appointed Directors receive an appropriate induction had the necessary balance of Executive and Non-Executive when they join the Board.
Relevant training is arranged as and Directors providing the desired blend of skills, experience and when deemed appropriate.
judgment appropriate for the needs of the Groups business and overall effectiveness of the Board.
In accordance with the A performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and provisions of the Code each Director offers himself for individual Directors was conducted during the year.
This consisted re-election on an annual basis.
of an internally run exercise conducted through the completion by each Director of a questionnaire prepared by the Company The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by the Board on an annual basis.
Both Non-Executive Directors Secretary which encourages each Director to give his opinions on Board and Committee procedures, operation and effectiveness are considered to be independent by the Board.
Andrew Leslie as well as any other matter they wish to raise.
was formerly an Executive Director of Pentland Brands Plc, a subsidiary of Pentland Group Plc Pentland, the Companys A separate questionnaire was completed by the Directors other largest shareholder.
Andrew Leslie does not represent the than the Executive Chairman in relation to the performance of interests of Pentland on the Board and retired from Pentland the Executive Chairman with the Senior Independent Director Brands Plc in 2008.
The Board believes that the Non-Executive discussing the resulting feedback with the other Non-Executive Directors have provided ample guidance to the Board and Directors, taking into account the views of the other Executive perform an effective role in challenging the Executive Directors Directors excluding the Executive Chairman.
The feedback from when appropriate.
the evaluation process is used by the Board to identify strengths From time to time the Executive Chairman meets with the Nonand development areas and confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
The Board determined Executive Directors without the other Directors present to discuss that an internal performance evaluation exercise was appropriate.
Board performance and other matters considered appropriate.
The Company, through its majority shareholder Pentland The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as Directors of the Company.
Group Plc, maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The brief biographical detail on page 60 includes details of the Chairmans other directorships of listed companies.
The Board Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability to carry out his role effectively for the Group.
Board Remuneration Audit Nomination Meetings Committee Committee Committee Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are required to retire and offer themselves for re-election every Number of Meetings three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors in Year will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
2 2 P Cowgill 8 4 3 2 B Bown 1 3 - 1 2 - Board Operation 2 2 B Small 8 4 3 2 The Board is responsible for the direction, management and A Leslie 8 6 3 2 performance of the Company.
The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year under review and ad hoc meetings M Davies 8 6 3 2 were held between scheduled meetings where required.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
The Board is responsible for providing 63 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report Continued Notes: Reviewing the Companys risk register and internal controls.
1 B Bown served on the Board for part of the year, having stood Consideration of whether an internal audit function should down on 30 May 2014. be established.
2 P Cowgill and B Small attended the Remuneration Committee Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Matters meetings and the Audit Committee meetings at the invitation The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups draft of the members of those Committees.
financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board B Bown attended an Audit Committee meeting at the approval.
As part of such review, the Committee considers invitation of the members of that Committee.
whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and appropriate judgments have been made by management.
Conflicts of Interest The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditor The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to on the full year and half year results.
consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director The following are material areas in which significant judgments has an interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with have been applied and have been considered by the Committee the interests of the Company.
The Board considers that the during the year: procedures it has in place for reporting and considering conflicts of interest are effective.
Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Committee considered the assumptions underlying the Board Committees calculation of the value in use of the cash generating units being There are three principal Board Committees to which the tested for impairment, primarily the achievement of the short Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
The terms of term business plan, the assumptions on discount rates and long reference for all three Committees are available for inspection on term growth rates.
The Committee reviewed the budgets and request and are available on the Companys corporate website business plans that support the impairment reviews and www.
challenged the key assumptions used and are comfortable that Audit Committee they represent managements best estimate at the time.
Membership and Meetings The external auditor provides to the Committee detailed explanations of the results of their review of the estimate of The Audit Committee currently comprises two independent Nonthe value in use, including their challenge of managements Executive Directors, Martin Davies and Andrew Leslie.
Martin underlying cash flow projections, the key growth assumptions and Davies chairs the Audit Committee.
The Committee has also reviewed the disclosures The Audit Committee met three times in the year with the external in the financial statements.
Details of attendance at Audit During the year the Committee reviewed the value in use of the Committee meetings are set out in the table on page 63.
Blacks goodwill and the growth assumptions used in this estimate Principal Duties and an impairment of 2.5m has been recognised in the current The Committees principal duties are to review draft annual and year.
The Committee also reviewed the value in use of the Blacks and Millets fascia names and, after performing relevant interim financial statements prior to being submitted to the Board, sensitivity analyses, believe that these values are recoverable.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management and to review the performance Further information on these are provided in note 14. and cost effectiveness of the external auditor.
Valuation of Inventories Main Activities During the Year The Committee considered the assumptions used in the The Committees activities included: inventory obsolescence provision models across the Group.
The valuation of inventories is a principal risk for the Group Reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim as its retail businesses are highly seasonal.
The Committee results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing reviews the provision models and challenges management on the external auditors detailed reports thereon including the key judgements made over aged stock and the level of internal controls.
Reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups The external auditor reports to the Committee on the work they financial statements of certain matters such as impairments have completed and how their audit work is concentrated on of fixed asset values and proposed International this area.
Reviewing the external auditor s plan for the audit of the External Auditor Groups financial statements, key risks of misstatement in the A breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees is set out financial statements, confirmations of auditor independence, in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 90. audit fee and terms of engagement of the auditor.
Non-audit work was comprised mainly of tax and other project Reviewing the independence and effectiveness of the Groups work and was undertaken by the external auditor due to their external auditor.
knowledge and understanding of the Groups business and in Reviewing the arrangements in place for employees to be the interests of efficiency.
Larger pieces of non-audit work were able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence awarded following a tender process.
The Company has instructed other firms to provide non-audit services from time to time in to ensure they remain appropriate.
64 Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued prior years and the Committee will keep the level of non-audit Nomination Committee work performed by the auditor under review.
The Committee is The Nomination Committee currently comprises Peter Cowgill, satisfied that the level and scope of non-audit services performed the Executive Chairman and two independent Non-Executive by the external auditor does not impact their independence.
Directors, Andrew Leslie and Martin Davies.
The Executive During the year, the Committee has adopted a formal policy Chairman is the chair of the Nominations Committee.
on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Committees principal duties are to consider the size, The objective of the policy is to ensure the external auditors structure and composition of the Board, ensure appropriate independence is maintained and to establish appropriate succession plans are in place for the Board and senior approval levels prior to non-audit work being undertaken by management and, where necessary, consider new appointments the external auditor.
Under the policy, any non-audit services to the Board and senior management.
The Nominations to be undertaken by the auditor require advance authorisation Committee met twice during the financial year principally in accordance with the following: to engage an external recruitment consultancy to undertake a search for an additional Non-Executive Director for the Board Work in excess of 100,000 Committee approval required.
and to oversee the subsequent recruitment process.
For individual pieces of work between 20,000 and 100,000 Executive Chairman approval required.
From time to time the full Board performs some of the duties of the Nomination Committee, as was the case during the year For individual pieces of work below 20,000 Chief under review.
In addition, regular informal discussions on Board Financial Officer approval required.
structure, succession and performance take place between the KPMG have acted as auditor to the Company since its flotation Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Chairman.
in 1996 and no tender exercise has been conducted to date.
The lead partner is subject to rotation every five years to safeguard Board Composition and Diversity independence, with a new lead partner being appointed to lead The Board is mindful of the recommendations of the Davies the audit for the 2014 15 financial year.
In light of the Code Review.
The Boards overriding aim is to make appointments and the recent conclusions of the Competition Commission, based on merit and against objective criteria.
The Board the Committee will keep under review the appropriate timing undertook a search exercise led by the Senior Independent for a formal tender.
In the meantime, the Board believes it is Director, employing the professional services of Korn Ferry important that the auditor is independent from the auditor of a recruitment and executive search consultancy during the the Companys majority shareholder.
financial year with a view to appointing a further independent The Committee keeps under review the relationship between the Non-Executive Director.
The search had due regard to the Group and external auditor and, having considered the external benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender diversity, auditors performance during their period in office and being as well as relevant experience against an agreed criteria.
satisfied that the external auditor continues to be independent, Unfortunately a suitable candidate could not be found and recommends their reappointment.
the search has been renewed in 2015.
In January 2015 the Board adopted a diversity policy which Internal Audit seeks to recognise and promote the benefits which diversity The Company does not currently have an internal audit function.
can bring to the Group and its operations.
The Committee considers on an annual basis whether an internal auditor should be recruited and at the current time has Internal Control determined that this is not necessary due to the centralised nature There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and of the Groups core operations and the Groups experienced managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process Loss Control team who play an effective role in limiting has been in place for the year under review and accords with shrinkage, theft and fraud.
The Loss Control Director reports the Turnbull guidance.
to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, has full Remuneration Committee responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and monitoring their effectiveness.
However, such a system is The Remuneration Committee currently comprises two designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to independent Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Leslie and achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable Martin Davies.
Andrew Leslie is the chair of the Remuneration and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The Committees principal duties are to determine Board has established a well-defined organisation structure with overall Group remuneration policy, remuneration packages clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, delegated for Executive Directors and senior management, the terms authority to executive management and a comprehensive of Executive Director service contracts, the terms of any financial reporting process.
performance-related schemes operated by the Group and awards thereunder.
Key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk management are: The Committee met six times during the year.
Details of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are set out Identification and monitoring of the business risks facing in the table on page 63. the Group, with major risks identified and reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Further details about Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 75.
65 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report Continued Detailed appraisal and authorisation procedures for capital External brokers reports on the Group are circulated to the investment.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors attend results presentations and analyst and institutional investor Prompt preparation of comprehensive monthly management meetings whenever possible.
accounts providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date information.
These allow for comparison with budget and The AGM is attended by all Directors, and shareholders are previous years results.
Significant variances from approved invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with budgets are investigated as appropriate.
Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
P reparation of comprehensive annual profit and cash flow Compliance with the Code budgets allowing management to monitor business activities The Directors consider that during the year under review and and major risks and the progress towards financial objectives to the date of this report, the Company complied with the in the short and medium term.
Code except in relation to the following: Monitoring of store procedures and the reporting and - Code provision B1.2 For the first four months of the year investigation of suspected fraudulent activities.
more than half of the Board consisted of Executive Directors Reconciliation and checking of all cash and stock balances and so for this period the Company did not comply with and investigation of any material differences.
this Code provision which requires at least half the Board In addition, the Audit Committee receives comprehensive reports excluding the Chairman to be comprised of independent from the external auditor in relation to the financial statements Non-Executive Directors.
However from 30 May 2014, when and the Groups system of internal controls.
Barry Bown stepped down from office, half of the Board The Group has a formal whistle blowing policy in place enabling consisted of Non-Executive Directors.
employees to raise concerns in relation to the Groups activities - Code provision B.
6.2 The Board did not conduct an on a confidential basis.
The Board will The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups keep under consideration on an annual basis whether an system of internal controls and believes this to be effective.
externally facilitated exercise is appropriate and would In establishing the system of internal control the Directors have provide value for money.
regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of a - Code provision C. 3.
1 and D. 2.1 These provisions require loss being incurred and costs of control.
It follows, therefore, there to be three independent Non-Executive Directors on the that the system of internal control can only provide a reasonable, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee respectively.
and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material Each such Committee was comprised of two independent misstatement or loss.
Non-Executive Directors being the totality of independent The integration of recently acquired businesses into the Groups Directors of the Company.
The Board will keep Committee system of internal controls is achieved as quickly as possible.
composition under review and will look to make adjustments as and when a new independent Non-Executive Director is Shareholder Relations appointed the Board.
The Executive Directors maintain an active dialogue with the - Code provision C. 3.7 The audit has not been put out to Companys major shareholders to enhance understanding of tender.
In light of the Code and the recent conclusions of their respective objectives.
The Executive Chairman provides the Competition Commission, the Committee will keep under feedback to the Board on issues raised by major shareholders.
review the appropriate timing for a formal tender.
This is supplemented by twice yearly formal feedback to the This report was approved by the Board and signed on its Board on meetings between management, analysts and behalf by: investors which seeks to convey the financial markets perception of the Group.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through dialogue with the Executive Directors, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Major shareholders may meet with the Non-Executive Directors upon request.
Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 15 April 2015 66
