81 Sustainability and Governance Sustainability and Governance Our board of directors is ultimately In 2014 15, approximately responsible for social, environmental and 26 million of savings were reported Johnson Mattheys vision is to build its ethical matters.
These matters are by our businesses as a result of our 3rd century through value adding embedded in Johnson Mattheys risk Sustainability 2017 and Manufacturing sustainable technologies: sustainability management processes and are formally Excellence programmes.
This equates to is a key element of the strategy we reviewed annually by our board.
Policies cumulative savings of around 90 million have in place to achieve our vision.
are set and approved by the executive since the launch of Sustainability 2017.
We launched our Sustainability 2017 Group Management Committee GMC.
programme in 2007 and our progress Understanding Material Issues The GMC also addresses risk and control to date is outlined on page 2. issues and reviews key EHS, social and The groups sustainability strategy governance issues.
The Group Policy incorporates an assessment of the risks, Our Framework and Compliance Committee GPCC, major impacts and future commercial We have established policies, processes a sub-committee of the GMC, has opportunities open to the business.
and management systems to support specific executive responsibility for the The long term targets within it address our governance and sustainability efforts identification and monitoring of risks and the issues which could potentially have which apply to all our operations around material issues in these areas.
It sets a material effect on the groups future the world.
They cover: and oversees compliance with group performance.
The group is further standards through the adoption, Business integrity and ethics.
developing its approach in this area.
dissemination and implementation of The area of sustainability continues Supply chain management.
appropriate group policies and other to develop rapidly and we proactively Environment, health and safety EHS.
monitor emerging issues, regulation, Human resources.
Every business is required to legislation, standards and good practice.
include details of sustainability and Responsibility for identifying and Together these provide the manufacturing excellence projects in its assessing these material issues lies framework for managing social, annual budget setting process and with the group sustainability team environmental and ethical matters.
define the nature of programmes and and the GPCC.
Further details, together with information projects to be undertaken, together with We recognise Johnson Mattheys about progress and developments over capital expenditure requirements and role within the value chains in which we the year, can be found on our website.
value generated over a three year operate and we monitor emerging risks Our employment contracts, business cycle.
Plans are discussed and opportunities.
A key area of focus handbooks and policies specify with the GMC and are formally approved in 2014 15 has been supply chain acceptable business practices and a by the board.
As part of the process, governance.
We have appointed an code of business integrity and ethics, built progress against the Sustainability 2017 external consultancy to conduct a on our culture and values, will be released targets is assessed on a group basis to responsible sourcing review a supply later in 2015 to help embed these establish if additional management action chain health check, implemented across the organisation.
We also have a formal system improved audit processes with suppliers Control Manual, which is distributed to of site and functional reviews to drive and assessed the implications of new all our sites, and security manuals improved performance in sustainability.
legislation such as the UK Modern provide further operational guidelines.
Slavery Act 2015 and European conflict The Corporate Governance Report minerals regulation.
on pages 84 to 97 describes the role of We constantly monitor developments the board, the Audit Committee and on mandatory and voluntary reporting other committees in risk management practices and for reporting purposes, and internal control.
2014 15 is the final year that we will self declare using the GRI G3.1 SUSTAINABLE guidance.
We will report to appropriate BUSINESS standards guidelines in 2016.
Sustainability remains a cornerstone of our 3C Strategy and as we continue to review our progress, plans are underway Health and Safety Social Environment Governance Financial to redefine our strategy and targets beyond 2017.
LOCAL ACTION IN BUSINESSES Putting principles into practice Read more: Business Integrity and Ethics page 68 POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Key objectives for assessment and control of risks Supply chains pages 25 and 71 GROUP POLICY AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Material Issues page 70 Setting standards and overseeing compliance Policy setting and approval Whistleblowing page 68 Identify and monitor EHS, social and Addresses risk and control issues governance risks Environment, health and safety pages 60, 61 and 77 JOHNSON MATTHEY BOARD Responsibility for social, environmental and ethical matters Human resources page 71 Risk management processes and review Human Rights page 71 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
