80 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 6.
Governance Letter from the Chairman Ti Tim m S St te ev five ens nson on C Ch hai airrman man Dear Shareholder Good governance will be fundamental to the continuing success of Johnson Matthey.
We are working to ensure that our structures and processes are aligned with this requirement and are fit for the purpose of implementing our ambitious strategy.
This year has been an important one for the governance of the group, with Robert MacLeod taking over as our Chief Executive and Den Jones joining as our Group Finance Director in June 2014.
Our effective governance framework at board level and throughout the organisation has helped support this transition in leadership.
However, as a board we recognise that there is always scope for improvement to make us better able to achieve the aspirations we have set for the company and to deal with the challenges we face.
This section of the annual report describes our corporate governance structures and processes and how they have been applied throughout the year ended 31st March 2015.
My Role as Chairman My role is to ensure that Johnson Matthey has a board which works effectively under my leadership.
One of my most important jobs in this regard is to maintain the right dynamic on the board, which requires effective contributions and constructive challenge from individual directors.
I am pleased to say that we have directors on our board with a broad range and balance of skills, expertise and attributes, all of which contribute to our effectiveness.
Communication is good and working relations are open and constructive.
My relationship with Robert, our Chief Executive, is positive: we are in frequent contact, meeting in person or by telephone at least once a week, covering both the hard and soft issues with which the executive team has to deal.
As Chairman, I lead the setting of the boards agenda, ensuring we have a plan which allows for adequate time to discuss all necessary items, particularly the development and implementation of strategy.
Board and Committee Evaluation I see regular and appropriate board and committee evaluation as vital to improving board effectiveness.
This year we conducted an externally facilitated evaluation process.
We report on the methodology used and the outcomes.
Succession Planning and Diversity Proper planning for board succession and refreshing and selection of the right individuals for the board and senior management team from a diverse talent pool are also key issues for me and for the board.
Again, this has been an important year with the appointment of our new non-executive director, Chris Mottershead.
We explain our approaches to these fundamental components of board effectiveness in this report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code We are reporting in our Corporate Governance Report this year against the 2012 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and related guidance.
We show how we have applied the Codes main principles and complied with its provisions.
I am pleased to report that, except in two particular respects one continuing throughout the year and one for only a short period in the year, Johnson Matthey has complied with all relevant provisions throughout the year and to the date of approval of this annual report.
