78 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 6.
Governance 80 Letter from the Chairman 81 Sustainability and Governance 82 Board of Directors 84 Corporate Governance Report 98 Nomination Committee Report 101 Audit Committee Report 108 Remuneration Report 127 Directors Report 131 Responsibility of Directors Effective governance framework has supported transition in leadership Board composition further strengthened with appointment of new non-executive director Externally facilitated board evaluation conducted during 2014 15 GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 79 Building a Sustainable Future At Johnson Matthey when a new facility is needed we look to design it sustainably from the outset, including energy and water efficient features where feasible.
Our new laboratory at Brimsdown, UK has energy saving features and our new measurement technology centre in Billingham, UK received a Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors award in the Design through Innovation category.
Elsewhere, new energy efficient laboratories in Singapore have achieved BCA Building and Construction Authority Green Mark certification.
We also focus on reducing the use of natural resources within our existing facilities as part of our Sustainability 2017 Vision.
At our Germiston site in South Africa, energy saving projects have produced impressive results over the last year.
Gavin Puckle, a member of the sites local energy team, explains what has been achieved.
Why is it important to make energy savings at Germiston?
Reducing our energy consumption is a key element of our Sustainability 2017 Vision, so its very important to us.
South Africa also suffers from energy shortages and regular outages.
This has led to a steep rise in energy prices, so reducing our usage not only helps the environment but theres a financial benefit too.
How did you set about energy saving?
We took a multi level approach.
We set up an energy management system which ultimately allowed us to achieve certification to ISO 50001 the international standard which gives guidelines on these systems.
As part of the initiative we identified a number of areas for energy savings within our operations.
And finally, we focused on raising general awareness and championed behavioural change.
Everyone is part of the drive to save energy, not just the energy team, and people have responded exceptionally well.
Its been a truly group effort.
What energy saving projects did you set up?
The key projects included those areas that are significant energy users: air compressors, chiller units, mixing vessels and the calcination oven and we looked at how we could operate them with greater efficiency.
So far weve cut our energy use by 28% from 2013 to 2015 amounting to 777,000 in financial savings all very encouraging.
Are there any further plans to make the site more sustainable?
Were exploring more ways we can change peoples behaviour to drive sustainability benefits along with further improvements in our manufacturing processes.
For me the future is all about operational excellence working smarter, faster and greener.
Gavin Puckle Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
