Corporate governance Board programme & agenda The Board schedules four two-day meetings and two calls on an annual basis.
Within these meetings, the following are covered as standing agenda items: review of Governance and reports from Board Committees - Safety and Assurance, Audit and Remuneration, Chief Executive report, operations updates and functional updates - HSSE, HR, IT&S and Finance including Acquisitions, Tax & Treasury and Investor Relations.
The Board also receives a series of management presentations, and other matters arising which are set out in the table below: Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 agenda items included Review of preliminary results statement AGM statement review Review of half year results Viability Study and annual report and interim report Strategy update Legal and Regulatory update Strategy update and review Group tax strategy Annual Ethics presentation Risk review process Risk review Business level project controls review Risk review Business level project controls review Strategy update and review Dividend policy review The Board allows for time on other items where necessary.
In 2015, the Board devoted considerable time to discussing the market environment, including the implications of the uncertain market conditions.
Potential acquisitions were discussed and the Board approved the acquisitions of Beta, ATG, Infinity and Kelchner.
Role of the Board Board independence After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its non-executive The Board focuses its time and energy on Group strategy, the annual directors to be independent in character and judgement and that there budget, significant acquisitions, monitoring the performance of the are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could management team, risk management, specifically focusing on principal appear to affect, their judgement.
Brief biographies of the directors risks and the overall system of internal control.
The Executive Leadership appear on pages 24 to 25.
Team is responsible for the implementation of Board decisions in these areas and all other aspects of managing the business.
Board re-election Board composition All directors, other than David Woodward, will seek re-election at the 2016 AGM.
The Board comprised 9 or 10 directors at various times during the year and decreased to 8 in 2016.
At all times the non-executive directors comprised a majority of the Board excluding the Chair as Board process and activity recommended by the Governance Code.
There were six scheduled Board meetings during 2015, plus two unscheduled meetings.
Four of the meetings were scheduled over two A clear separation of the roles of the Chair and the Chief Executive has days and were held in London, Aberdeen and Houston.
Safety and been agreed by the Board, in compliance with the Governance Code.
Assurance is always the first item on the agenda at Board meetings, and The Chair is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
the Board also receive an HSSE update at each meeting.
The Board He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are appropriate and received detailed presentations from senior operational and functional is responsible for facilitating that all directors actively contribute to the management across the Groups businesses.
determination of the Groups strategy.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group and implementation of the HSSE remains a focus at the Executive Leadership Team meetings which occur on a monthly basis.
At these meetings, the Executive Leadership Group's strategy.
He develops proposals for Board approval, and ensures Team also receive updates on operational issues, finance, legal, business that a regular dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
Executive Board ethics & compliance, investor relations and HR.
Members report directly to the Chief Executive.
On a more detailed basis, the strategic business unit CEOs conduct quarterly review meetings with the senior managers within their divisions, which are usually attended by the Group Chief Executive and the Group CFO.
A summary of the Groups financial performance is made available to the Board on a monthly basis.
The directors have access, via a secure intranet site, to presentations from the Groups brokers which contain investors feedback, copies of relevant regulations, analyst research and appropriate administrative information.
26 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board performance evaluation Board development The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board The Board evaluated its own performance and the performance of meetings and briefings arranged on issues relating to corporate its Committees, individual directors, and the Chair during the year.
Arrangements are in place for newly appointed directors In accordance with paragraph B.
6.2. of the Governance Code, the to undertake an induction process designed to develop their Board retained Lintstock Limited Lintstock as advisers to facilitate the knowledge and understanding of the Groups business.
This includes Board evaluation process.
The evaluation involved directors completing briefing sessions during regular Board meetings, visits to Group detailed questionnaires, the results of which were analysed by the operating sites and discussion of relevant business issues.
Upon their Chair and the Company Secretary and presented by way of a report appointment, directors are advised of their legal and other duties for discussion at a Board meeting in December 2015 and in separate and their obligations as directors of a listed company and under the meetings between each director and the Chair.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, All directors are encouraged to attend relevant external seminars.
and taking into account the views of the executive directors, were There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chair.
The directors advice at the Groups expense and all directors have access to the met, in the absence of the Chair, in December 2015 to conclude these services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that discussions, following which the senior independent director provided the Boards procedures are followed.
feedback to the Chair on his performance.
Key areas covered by the Board evaluation were the effectiveness Board engagement with shareholders of the Board and Committee meetings, individual director contribution Our investor relations activities are led by the Groups Chief Executive and performance, and the nature & extent of the Boards interaction and CFO, supported by the investor relations team and other members with the management of the Group.
The main observations from the of senior management as appropriate.
We provide the opportunity for evaluation were: significant shareholders to meet with the Chief Executive and CFO twice a year around the interim and final results announcements.
In 2015, X The continued development of the Board's discussion of strategic significant shareholders were also offered the opportunity to meet with considerations, industry trends and market factors, which will the Chair.
Our investor relations team organises ad-hoc meetings with continue to be reflected in the Board schedule by prioritising time management, manages capital markets day presentations for investors available at Board meetings for these deliberations and analysts and maintains an ongoing dialogue with the financial X A desire to continue to develop the Groups material risk analysis community through analyst relationships.
with the Executive Leadership Team, focusing on risk appetite and likelihood, which is being addressed through the boards ongoing risk The Company has been notified, in accordance with DTR 5, of the review process following major shareholdings in the Company as of 29 February 2016: X A desire to continue the Boards review of senior management Number of succession planning, particularly below Executive Leadership Team Name of voting rights % of issue level, which was subsequently considered at the Boards meeting shareholder held shares in February 2016.
Aberdeen Asset Management 41,619,373 10.98% Lintstock has no other connection to the Group.
Schroder Investments 18,940,857 4.99% APG Asset Management N. V. 18,914,688 4.99% Conflicts of interest FIL Limited 18,868,227 4.98% The Board requires directors to declare any appointments or other situations which would amount to a possible conflict of interest.
Ameriprise Financial 18,696,372 4.93% The Board has procedures in place to deal with and, if necessary, approve any such conflicts.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Corporate governance continued Committees of the Board Board and Committee meeting attendance 2015 The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to Committees the Safety & Assurance Committee, the Safety & Assurance Nomination Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Committee.
I Marchant 8 8 3 3 A summary of the Safety & Assurance, Nomination and R Keiller 7 8 3 4 Audit Committees' work is set out below.
The report of R Watson 8 8 3 3 the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors D Kemp 6 6 Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 46.
The Charters of the Boards Committees are available on the Groups website.
T Botts 8 8 4 4 3 3 Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its J Brown 8 8 3 3 4 4 Committees is summarised in the table.
The dates of future M Shafer-Malicki 8 8 4 4 3 3 4 4 Board meetings have now been agreed until the end of 2016.
J Wilson 8 8 3 3 4 4 4 4 D Woodward 8 8 3 3 4 4 4 4 Safety & Assurance Committee The Safety & Assurance Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups management of Safety and Assurance including personal security, in line with the Groups core value commitment Thomas Botts Chair, Safety & Assurance Committee Membership X the quality and integrity of the Groups internal and external The Committee comprises Thomas Botts, Chair, Mary Shafer-Malicki, reporting of Safety & Assurance performance and issues the Group Chief Executive and Group Head of HSSE.
X the Groups preparedness for response to a major safety or Responsibilities security incident The Committee meets at least twice a year, and has written terms of X the process for and outcomes of investigations into major reference which are available on the Groups website setting out its safety and security incidents and the effectiveness with which responsibilities.
recommendations are assimilated throughout the Group Main responsibilities are to review and make recommendations to the X the expertise and appropriateness of the structure of the Safety & Board regarding: Assurance function throughout the Group.
X the Groups Safety & Assurance strategy and performance The Committee met four times in 2015.
X the effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems, and The remit of the Groups Safety and Assurance Committee has now evidence of a prevalent safety culture been extended to include oversight of Business Ethics and will be known X Safety leadership development throughout the Group, particularly in 2016, as the Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Committee.
in frontline operations Read the Safety & Assurance Committee terms of reference at: www.
com investors charters 28 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee met three times during the year to consider Board and Committee appointments and CEO succession planning.
Ian Marchant Chair, Nomination Committee Membership The Nomination Committee comprises the Chair and all of the In the final quarter of the year, the Committee again met to consider and independent non-executive directors.
recommend the renewal of Tom Botts appointment as a non-executive director for a further term of three years and the appointment of Bill Setter as Company Secretary.
The committee also considered feedback on Responsibilities interviews with a number of short-listed candidates for appointment as a The Committee meets at least once a year, and met three times in 2015. non-executive director.
It operates within a written charter setting out its roles and responsibilities.
Main responsibilities: Committee evaluation X reviewing Board structure, size and composition In the final quarter of the year the Committee assessed its own performance during the year and concluded that it had benefitted from X making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes more frequent meetings during the year and would continue to meet on X identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board a more regular and structured basis.
X filling Board vacancies The Committee is cognisant of the Governance Codes requirement to pay due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender when X ensuring succession plans are in place.
conducting a search for Board candidates.
Wood Group is committed to remaining an equal opportunities employer.
The Committee met early in the year, to consider and recommend committee appointments and the renewal of Mary Shafer Malickis appointment as a non-executive director for a further term of three Read the Nomination Committee charter at: www.
The committee also received an update from its advisers, Korn Ferry, on the search for further non-executive directors as a longer-term succession planning exercise.
In August the Committee reviewed executive succession planning.
This included the timing of Chief Executive succession and recommended to the Board that Robin Watson should, at the appropriate time, succeed Bob Keiller as Chief Executive.
Following further discussions with both Bob and Robin, the Board approved the change in October and a handover at the end of the year was agreed, allowing Robin to take full ownership of performance in 2016.
"John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee ""Our meetings covered a wide range of topics including the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and the effectiveness of the internal and external audit processes."
Jann Brown Chair, Audit Committee The Committee has a written charter of responsibilities which is reviewed on an annual basis, setting out its roles and responsibilities.
Read the Audit Committee charter at: www.
com investors charters The Committee met four times in 2015.
At each meeting the following was covered: compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial reporting requirements: the consideration of the internal financial control environment: the internal audit programme and results: and review of the external audit relationship and provision of non audit services.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Review of the 2014 Group Financial Internal Audit succession planning Review of the 2015 Group Interim Review of upcoming year end issues Statements including Going Concern review Financial Statements including Going Concern review Review of 2014 external audit status and Accounts Receivable update including a Review of 2015 Interim external Review of 2015 external audit plan assessment of external audit effectiveness review of Credit Risk policy review status and fees Review of the 2014 Audit Committee Update from the Head of Tax and Treasury Update from internal audit Review and response to Audit Corporate Governance Report including a review of material tax provisions on IT Assurance FRC quality review Review of whistleblowing procedures Review of plan and timeline for the Review and approval of 2016 external Audit Tender Internal Audit Plan Review of future external Review of sensitivities and stress audit tendering process testing scenarios related to the 2015 Viability Statement Membership and responsibilities The Audit Committee comprises Jann Brown Chair, recent and relevant X Impairment reviews financial expertise, Jeremy Wilson, and David Woodward.
At both the half year and the year end the Committee considered where indicators of impairment existed and the results of any related The Group CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit impairment reviews.
Annual reviews are routinely carried out in relation and the external auditors,  LLP PwC were to goodwill and intangible assets, with the committees role being invited to attend all Audit Committee meetings.
During the year other primarily to challenge the significant assumptions and estimates made relevant people from the business presented to the Committee on the to ensure that they are fit for purpose.
Other than as set out below, no topics set out in the table above.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and impairments were noted.
PwC have the right of direct access to the Chair of the Committee at all It became apparent in the second half of 2015 that the EthosEnergy times, and to meet the Committee without management present.
JV was not performing in line with the forecasts provided for 2015.
The Chair of the Committee reports to each Board meeting on the activity The Committee reviewed the assumptions, including growth rates and of the Committee.
discount rates, which were used to calculate the revised carrying value of $192.2m and was satisfied with the calculation of the impairment During the year the Committee focused on the following areas: charge of $159m.
In subsequent periods the Committee will continue to monitor performance against this revised forecast.
Financial reporting and significant accounting issues There were no new accounting standards which had a material impact The external auditors assessed this as an area of particular focus and on the Group during the year, and the Committee focused on the the Committee received updates on related work undertaken by PwC.
application of our accounting policies and on the areas of judgement and estimation.
X Review of significant contracts During 2015, the Committee reviewed the Groups largest ongoing The primary areas of judgement and estimation considered by the contracts including those executed on a fixed price and lump sum basis.
Committee in relation to the 2015 financial statements and how they Management judgement features in the recognition of revenue on all were addressed are outlined below.
contracts, and of the profit or loss on lump sum and fixed price contracts, albeit these contracts only accounted for a small percentage of the Groups revenue in 2015.
During the year the Committee reviewed the status of significant contracts and the accounting for these.
30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements X Current and deferred tax balances During the year PwCs 2014 year-end audit file was selected for a quality The Group operates in a number of different tax regimes and a range review by their external regulator, the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
of judgements underpins the calculations for both current and deferred The Committee received a summary of the results of the review from tax.
In the Income Statement, these can have an impact on both the the FRC.
All points for improvement raised by the FRC were discussed tax charge and the operating profit.
The Committee receives detailed and actions were agreed with the lead audit partner.
The committee is reporting on taxation from senior management and, where necessary, satisfied that the appropriate follow up actions identified in the review on the advice received from professional advisory firms.
This has been have been addressed.
Opportunities were provided for open dialogue recognised by PwC as an area of higher audit risk and the Committee and feedback between the external auditor and the Committee without received updates on related work undertaken by PwC.
management being present throughout the year.
X Review of provisions X Appointment and independence The Committee considers the appropriateness, adequacy and The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the external consistency of approach to provisioning at each meeting.
All material auditors independence and objectivity is not compromised.
provisions, including those made against uninsured legal claims and The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor doubtful debts, are discussed and challenged.
Given the uncertain each year and also assesses their independence on an ongoing economic climate for the oil and gas companies which form the core basis.
During the year the committee received confirmation from the customer base of the Group, there was a focus in the year on the external auditors regarding their independence.
In accordance with recoverability of receivables and on the processes in place to assess and UK regulations and to help ensure independence, the auditors adhere monitor credit risk.
to a rotation policy based on Auditing Practices Board standards that require the Group audit partner to rotate every five years.
This is the Internal financial control third year that Lindsay Gardiner, the current lead audit partner, has The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal been involved in the audit of the Group.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee has been given the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal financial During the year and in compliance with the provisions of the UK control systems implemented by management.
This work is informed by Competition & Markets Authority CMA Order we decided to conduct regular updates from the Group Head of Internal Audit and the results of a tender for the audit during 2016.
To allow a transition of non audit the financial risk self-assessment process undertaken across the Group.
services currently performed by firms tendering for the audit see next External audit also provide feedback on areas of financial control which section below, it is currently intended that the appointment would take they wish to bring to the Committees attention.
effect for the audit of the year ending 31 December 2018.
Although we remain satisfied with the effectiveness of the current external auditors, PwC, they have been in place since the Group became a publicly listed company in 2002.
This means that they would be subject to mandatory rotation within four years of the new appointment, and for that reason X Internal audit they have not been asked to submit a tender.
We have consulted our Monitoring the activity of the Group Internal Audit function is an agenda major shareholders on the process and on the firms we intend to invite to item at each Committee meeting.
Each year, the Committee agrees tender and the Committee will take the feedback received into account.
the plan to be carried out and receives regular updates on progress against this plan, including a summary of the key findings from each of The Committee provided the Board with its recommendation to its reviews, an update on the status of actions agreed with management shareholders on the reappointment of PwC as external auditor for the and a note of any themes or emerging risk areas to be considered by year ending 31 December 2016.
Accordingly a resolution proposing the Committee.
In August 2015 the Committee received a presentation the reappointment of PwC as the Groups external auditor will be put on the work performed by internal audit on the Groups IT systems, to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations processes and controls and this focus will continue into 2016. that restrict the Groups choice of external auditors.
The Chair of the Committee holds private discussions with the Group X Non-audit services Head of Internal Audit as necessary during the year outside the formal One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision of Committee process.
non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Groups policy in this area, which is set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference, is clear.
X External audit The Committee considers and approves fees in respect of non-audit As part of the external audit process, PwC prepare an audit plan services provided by the external auditors in accordance with Policy and identifying their assessment of key audit risks.
These risks are discussed the cost of non-audit services provided in 2015 is reported in note 3 to during the year with input from management and the Group Head of the financial statements.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of Internal Audit as necessary, providing the Committee with an opportunity these non-audit services did not impair PwCs independence.
to understand, challenge and ultimately agree with the auditors which areas should be covered.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit process through consideration of the reporting received from Committee evaluation PwC at the half year and the year end, the robustness of the external The Committees activities formed part of the external review of Board auditors handling of key judgemental areas and the quality of the external and Committee effectiveness performed in the year.
The key actions auditors interaction with, and reporting to, the Committee.
to be added to the Terms of Reference for the Committee in 2016 and The Committee also reviews the standing, experience and tenure beyond are: of the external audit lead partner, the arrangements for ensuring the X to monitor succession planning in the finance, tax & treasury and independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the nature internal audit functions: and and level of non-audit services provided.
In addition, we conduct an annual exercise to seek feedback from around the Group on the X to ensure that the Committee is kept fully up to date on current effectiveness of the external audit process.
developments relevant to its responsibilities.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
