Corporate Governance Report of the Board and Nomination Committee The structure of the Board did not change through 2015, The principal role of our Board save that one independent Non-executive Director, Henri is to provide leadership to the Group, Moissinac, stood down and was replaced by Diego Oliva.
As envisaged at the time of the Companys IPO, Benjamin set and monitor the implementation Holmes and Michael Risman will each be stepping down asnon-independent Directors by the Companys 2016 AGM.
of its strategy and, with its standing Committees, to oversee controls, Further details of our Directors are provided on pages 36 and 37. risk management and senior The diversity of our Directors provides the Board with a remuneration.
Our aim is to broad range of experience of both the Groups business and ensure that the Group has in place of other international businesses, including other publicly listed companies.
This enables high quality, diverse and appropriate people, financial and relevant input into Board discussions, enriching debates andallowing carefully considered judgements to be reached, other resources to enable value to consensus arrived at, and decisions then taken.
be maximised for shareholders All our Directors have a deep interest in ensuring the Group and other stakeholders over achieves its long-term objectives.
They all devote sufficient time and attention to their Board duties and responsibilities the long term.
and take collective responsibility for the Boards performance.
A proper balance of influence is maintained As part of the Boards role, we provide both support and without one person or separate groups of people having constructive challenge to management in the review of undue powers of decision-making.
All the Non-executive proposals, in the monitoring of performance and in the Directors bring strong and valuable judgement to bear on targeting of achievement of the Groups aims, over both the Boards deliberations and decision-making process.
The Board believes that its developing structure and This section of the Governance Report summarises the role membership is appropriate for this stage in the Groups and activities of our Board and its Nomination Committee development and represents a good balance of skills and and is followed by specific reports from our Audit and experience necessary to manage the Company and its Remuneration Committees.
business in an effective and successful manner.
As part Membership of the Board of the ongoing development of the Board, an additional The Board currently has nine members: independent Non-executive Director is intended to be recruited during 2016. myself, John Hughes, as Non-executive Chairman, having been independent on appointment: two Executive Directors, David Buttress Chief Executive Officer and Mike Wroe Chief Financial Officer : three independent Non-executive Directors, Gwyn Burr, Andrew Griffith and Diego Oliva: and three non-independent Non-executive Directors, Frederic Coorevits, Benjamin Holmes and Michael Risman, each of whom was nominated by a major shareholder and has served since before the CompanysIPO.
indd 38 06 03 2016 20:34 Corporate Governance Role of the Board Key activities of our Board include the following: Agrees the Groups strategic The Board reviews matters of strategic importance at each of its main meetings.
This is usually aims after considering done in the context of a presentation on a specific matter of strategic interest by a member of recommendations from senior management.
In the past year, this has included consideration of further development of the theExecutive Directors.
consumer experience and increasing the choice available to consumers to drive channel shift more rapidly.
It also includes review and, where considered appropriate, approval of acquisitions and other new business opportunities, as with the Menulog Group.
As part of Board discussions of strategic proposals, Non-executive Directors constructively challenge matters when they feel appropriate as part of reaching an overall consensus in the decision making process.
In addition, the Board reviews and seeks to identify risks at a strategic level.
As well as its review of strategic matters at each main Board meeting, the Board held a specific strategy meeting with management during the year.
This included presentations by senior management on particular aspects of the Groups business and development and agreement on theirrelative prioritisation of importance.
Aims to ensure that the Group This includes regular reviews of the financial performance and requirements of the Group, presented has the necessary financial by the CFO, along with regular updates from the CEO on plans for the ongoing development of strength and human resources the management team in the context of the growth of the Group.
This is supported by regular in place to pursue the agreed presentations by the Groups Chief People Officer to the Remuneration Committee: and review strategy.
of the senior management team by the Nomination Committee with the CEO.
Reviews Group performance As well as financial performance, the Board reviews the operational development of the Group and its against the agreed strategy markets to ensure its strategy remains appropriate: and to consider and decide upon any adjustments andconsiders any variations that may improve this.
that may become appropriate to this strategy.
Where appropriate, As well as regularly reviewing presentations at Board meetings, Directors have open and constructive works with the operating relationships with members of senior management who can draw on their wide business experience.
management to assist in the achievement of the strategy.
Sets the tone as well as The Board leads the Group in a way that is intended to maximise business integrity and allow its overseeing implementation people and other stakeholders to operate in a transparent and ethical way as an important part of of the Groups values and ensuring the long-term success of the Group.
This is supplemented by more detailed reviews of standards.
specific areas by the Audit Committee.
indd 39 06 03 2016 20:34 Corporate Governance Report of the Board and Nomination Committee continued Board and Committee meetings Support to Directors The Board meets at regular intervals through the year The Directors have free access to the Companys management both at meetings scheduled as part of its annual corporate and advisors and to visit the Companys operations.
When calendar and other meetings as required for specific matters.
new Directors are appointed, they receive a comprehensive At these meetings, it reviews: induction facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This induction includes meetings with key members of business performance: management, together with briefings on the Groups business, its industry and public company duties generally.
operational matters of particular note for the Board: Directors have access to ongoing training as required.
strategic considerations: All Directors also have access to the advice and services of activities in the Groups industry and any potential the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary acts as acquisition opportunities: Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees, reporting shareholder communications and feedback: in these roles directly to their Chairmen.
The Company Secretary advises through their Chairmen on compliance reports of proceedings of Board Committees: and with Board and Committee procedures and applicable laws progress against previously agreed actions.
and regulations on governance matters.
Directors are also able to take external advice at the expense of the Company, In addition to our Executive Directors, members of should they feel this is necessary.
management may be invited to present relevant matters to the Board, where considered appropriate.
Executive Attendance at meetings Directors and members of management may also attend The numbers of, and attendance of members at, Board and and present on relevant matters at Committee meetings, Committee meetings and calls during the year are shown at the invitation of the respective Committee Chairman.
Attendance of non-Committee members at some or all of a Committee meeting is shown where they have been Directors have the right to request that any concerns invited to attend: they may have are recorded in the appropriate Board or Committee minutes although no such requests were made Audit Remuneration Nomination during the period.
Minutes are circulated for comment by Board 9 Committee 5 Committee 5 Committee 3 Total meetings in period meetings meetings meetings meetings all Directors before being formally approved at the next 1 1 relevant meeting.
Ap pointed to the Board and Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 24 September 2015.
R esigned from the Board on 31 July 2015.
Where a Director is unable to attend a particular meeting, full documentation for the meeting is issued to them, their views are sought in advance and briefings are provided subsequent to the meeting as appropriate.
indd 40 06 03 2016 20:34 Corporate Governance Division of responsibilities Whilst the Directors take collective responsibility for the management of the Group, the effective operation of the Board, in conjunction with management, benefits from a clarity of responsibilities.
Key elements of this are set out below: Matters reserved to the Board Board structure, composition and succession planning, which The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically are handled in more detail by the Nomination Committee: reserved for its or its Committees decision which include: Executive remuneration policy and the remuneration of Group strategy, which is reviewed by the Board and the Chairman, which are determined by the Remuneration management regularly during the year: Committee: and the Groups business plan and annual operating budget: the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
major investments, acquisitions and capital projects, in which Subject to such reserved matters, and any other matters which the Board monitors their subsequent performance: the Board determines are appropriate for its specific decision as they arise, authority for the operation of the Group is delegated internal controls and risk management, which are reviewed to Executive and other management within a system of defined regularly by the Audit Committee: authority limits.
The matters reserved for the Boards decision accounting policies, which are reviewed in detail by the arereviewed periodically and updated as considered appropriate.
AuditCommittee: shareholder communications, such as announcements of results, this Annual Report and the accompanying notice ofAGM to shareholders: The Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director 2.
The CEO, together with the CFO, has been delegated appropriate Another important aspect of the division of responsibilities in responsibilities and authorities for the effective leadership of any listed company is between the roles of the Chairman and the senior management team and for the day-to-day running CEO.
In JUST EAT, these roles are separate and distinct with of the business, for carrying out the agreed strategy and for a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company implementing specific Board decisions relating to the Groups established, agreed and set out in writing: operations.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for managing the In addition, Andrew Griffith, the Senior Independent Director, is Board, facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors, available to the other Non-executive Directors and shareholders, ensuring effective communication with shareholders, and either individually or collectively, should they wish to discuss that all Board members are aware of the views of major matters of concern in an alternative forum.
Standing Board Committees The current terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and I Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website n addition, certain matters have been delegated to three atwww.
principal Board Committees within clearly defined terms of reference.
These remits, together with the composition of each Summaries of the roles of each of these Committees are included Committee, are reviewed periodically as they have been in the later in this Corporate Governance Report.
indd 41 06 03 2016 20:34 Corporate Governance Report of the Board and Nomination Committee continued Nomination Committee Performance reviews The Nomination Committee comprises three independent During the past year, the Board and its three Non-executive Directors and myself, John Hughes, as standingCommittees completed an evaluation, externally Chairman.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the facilitated by Glowinkowski International, which does balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Directors.
not have any other connection with the Company.
It also reviews the composition and structure of the Board Thisevaluation involved: and makes recommendations to the Board on retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors, Comprehensive questionnaire including succession planning.
The appointment of our All Directors completed a detailed bespoke questionnaire current independent Non-executive Directors followed containing both quantitative measurable metrics a formal, rigorous and transparent recruitment process and qualitative narrative responses to assess Board with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership, a leading performance, focused on the following areas: external recruitment firm with no other connection with Strategy including its development, priorities and the Company, after assessing the skills and character profile implementation: that would be required.
This included candidates meeting Communication both internally and externally: the other Directors prior to their recommendation for Decision making including data and analysis: appointment by the Board.
Governance including both structures and standards: One of the key considerations on any appointment to the Performance both of the business and of the Board: Board relates to diversity.
The Boards policy is to continue People including talent approach and strategy, and to seek diversity, including with regard to gender, as part skills to be sought from future Board appointments: of the overall selection of the best candidates for Nonand executive Director roles.
Any appointments of Executive Directors will also be made within the Groups aims, as set Sustainability including its importance and out in our CSR Report on page 30. integration into the business.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, each Director Full Board discussion retires at AGMs of the Company and, if decided appropriate Steve Glowinkowski of Glowinkowski International met by the Board, may be proposed for reappointment.
In with the Board in a review and discussion of the results reaching its decision, the Board acts on the advice of the ofthe evaluation, both in terms of analysis of theresulting Nomination Committee.
Following evaluation of their metrics and the narrative answers.
performance, I as Chairman confirm that the performance Having considered these results, the Board has agreed of each of the Non-executive Directors being proposed for to follow up with specific actions as part of the ongoing appointment continues to be effective and demonstrates development of its governance processes, which will be commitment to their role.
The Board considers that they reported in next years Annual Report.
each provide distinct and valuable input to the overall operation and function of the Board.
Governance discussions Separate meetings took place: This evaluation of the performance of the Non-executive During the year, amongst the Non-executive Directors Directors included an assessment of their attendance at and Chairman without the Executive Directors meetings and also their ability to devote sufficient time present: and to the Company outside meetings.
All the Directors being proposed for re-appointment attended all meetings they Annually, amongst the Non-executive Directors only, were scheduled to do so.
They all devote ample time to their to discuss theperformance of the Chairman.
This duties at other times and their roles in other companies in included rigorous review of his attendance, and his no way negatively impact their roles with the Company.
substantial and valuable contributions, both at and outside formal meetings, concluding that he is able The Committee has already started discussions regarding toand does devote ample time and attention to the the expected ongoing evolution of the Board, commencing Companys affairs, that his broad past and current the recruitment process for an additional independent Nonexperience provides great benefit to his role in the executive Director.
Group and thathis external roles had no negative impact on theCompany.
The Committee also reviews matters in relation to the senior management team, considering succession planning and new appointments as they arise.
indd 42 06 03 2016 20:34 Corporate Governance Shareholder relations Annual General Meeting The Board is committed to maintaining good All shareholders are encouraged to attend, and have the communications with existing and potential shareholders opportunity to ask questions at, the Companys AGM and based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
at any other times by contacting the Company.
As well Acomprehensive investor relations programme underpins as the Chairman, CEOand CFO, the Chairmen of the this commitment.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Audit, Nomination andRemuneration Committees will be Officer and Chief Financial Officer have regular dialogue available at the AGMto answer questions relating to the with institutional shareholders in order to develop an responsibilities of those Committees.
understanding of their views, which is communicated The Notice convening the 2016 AGM, to be held on 27April backto, and discussed with, the Board.
2016, will be issued along with this Annual Report at least Presentations given to analysts and investors covering the 20 working days in advance of the meeting to provide annual and interim results, along with all results and other shareholders with the appropriate time to consider matters.
regulatory announcements as well as further information Separate resolutions will be proposed on each substantially for investors, are included on the investor relations section separate matter.
The results of the proxy votes on each of the Companys website at www.
Additional resolution will be collated independently by the Companys shareholder information is also set out on page 122. registrar and will be published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Shareholders are able to contact the Company through the Company Secretary or Head of Investor Relations.
On behalf of the Board Andrew Griffith, our Senior Independent Director, serves as an additional point of contact for shareholders should they feel that any concerns are not being addressed properly through the normal channels.
He may be contacted through the Company Secretary.
Dr. John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc Chairman 29 February 2016 43 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs034-043.
