Corporate Governance Report of the Audit Committee As the Audit Committee, we assist the Board in its oversight of financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
This report summarises our membership and activities during 2015.
Membership Our Committee comprises three independent Directors, Gwyn Burr, Diego Oliva and myself, Andrew Griffith, asChairman.
Role and activities We met five times as a Committee during the year.
Weconsidered this frequency of meetings appropriate during JUST EATs first full year as a public company.
MikeWroe, our Chief Financial Officer, and senior representatives of the financial management team also attend our meetings as do representatives of the external auditor and the internal audit team as appropriate.
At our meetings in the past year, we received presentations on, andreviewed and considered the following matters: the remuneration and proposed reappointment of our external auditor: the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor: the plans for and outcome of the preparation and review of the Groups half year results and audit of the full year The Committee continued to focus its accounts including presentations from both management and the external auditor: work on the Groups financial control the Groups accounting policies: and risk management, financial the Groups system of operational and risk activities: reporting and compliance processes.
key internal policies including anti-bribery and related Andrew Griffith policies and whistleblowing arrangements which include Chairman, Audit Committee an externally managed hotline: the development of the internal audit function in the Group reporting directly to the Committee and drawing on and developing control and risk management procedures already being undertaken: anti-bribery, data protection and other policies and procedures in the Group: 44 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs44-047.
indd 44 06 03 2016 20:38 Corporate Governance the enhanced disclosures regarding risk, going concern and viability under the new provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code coming into effect this year for the Company: and whether this Annual Report taken as a whole provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects and whether it provides the necessary information to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, the ultimate decision on which is taken by the Board.
Prior to approval of the Annual Report, the Committee, and all other Board members, receive a paper detailing those steps that have been taken by management to ensure the report meets the fair, balanced and understandable requirement.
They also receive drafts of the Annual Report and financial statements in sufficient time ahead of signing, to enable them to challenge the narrative and disclosures where required.
In addition, the Groups external auditor reviews the Annual Report to ensure consistency between the financial statements and the narrative reporting as set out in the Directors responsibility statement in the Directors Report on page 116.
The Committee also meets privately with the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit at least once per year and did so prior to its recommendation to the Board on approval of this AnnualReport.
Significant issues Prior to each meeting of the Audit Committee at which they are to be considered, management produces a paper providing details of any significant accounting, tax, compliance and legal issues.
Management are also invited to attend these meetings where further guidance is required.
The Groups critical accounting judgements, as included within note 39 to the financial statements, are not considered by the Audit Committee to be significant issues in respect of the 2015 Annual Report.
Those issues considered significant are detailed below.
Significant issues the Committee has considered How the issue was addressed Business combinations Valuations of the acquired intangible assets of the Menulog Group There were a number of changes to the Group structure during based in Australia and New Zealand and SinDelantal in Mexico the year which included several acquisitions.
As detailed in were performed by external valuation experts.
Management note 31, the total cash consideration paid during the year was determined this was appropriate due to the size and complexity of 457.2million, which resulted in an increase in the Groups these acquisitions.
All other acquisitions in the year were valued goodwill 415.3 million and acquired intangible assets internally by management.
Valuation and accounting papers prepared by management and external valuation experts were reviewed and considered appropriate by the Audit Committee.
To confirm that the valuations and accountingtreatments adopted are appropriate, this included consideration of the following: 1. cash flows and discount rates used in the business valuations: 2. models and key inputs used in the intangible assets valuations including expected useful lives: 3. fair value adjustments made by management to arrive at the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired: and 4. the approach taken to identify acquired intangible assets and challenging the balance of goodwill as compared with intangible assets.
The Committee was satisfied that both management and the external valuation expert used appropriate models for identifying and valuing assets that are core to the existing business model.
Please refer to note 31 to the financial statements for information on the business combinations.
Potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Impairment reviews have been performed by management on At December 2015, the Group had goodwill balances totalling the Groups cash-generating units CGUs to which goodwill 457.1 million and other intangible assets totalling 72.6million.
and other intangible assets have been allocated.
The cash flow forecasts used were based on the budgets approved by the Board together with assumed growth rates, thereafter.
The key assumptions around future growth rates and discount rates used were reviewed and considered by the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Committee reviewed managements sensitivity analyses regarding these assumptions.
The Committee is satisfied that there was no impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets as at 31 December 2015.
Please refer to note 14 to the financial statements for further information.
indd 45 10 03 2016 17:06 Corporate Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued The Committee agreed the internal audit plan to be Internal controls and risk management undertaken prior to the commencement of the year.
environment AteachCommittee meeting, the progress of the internal The Board is ultimately responsible for the operation of an audit plan has been reviewed to ensure that it is in line effective system of internal control and risk management withthe Committees expectations.
The plan was approved appropriate to the business.
to ensure that there was appropriate coverage of the The Company has complied with the FRCs Guidance on internal control environment, strategic priorities and Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial keyrisk identified by the Board.
and Business Reporting, as applicable, throughout the period During the year, the audit plan was amended so that and up to the date on which these financial statements were additional areas were added to the plan based on the changes approved.
Day-to-day operating and financial responsibility that gave rise to increased levels of risk.
These changes to rests with senior management and performance is closely the agreed audit plan were approved by the Committee.
Given the acquisitions that were made in the year and the Internal control environment growth of the Group, the Committee spent time ensuring The following key elements comprise the internal control that an appropriate level of coverage was in place to confirm environment which has been designed to identify, evaluate that the control environment was appropriate to support the and manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the strategic priorities of the Group.
Group in seeking to achieve its business objectives and ensure accurate and timely reporting of financial data for The Head of Internal Audit provides updates to the the Company and the Group: Committee at each meeting summarising the internal audit an appropriate organisational structure with clear lines findings and the progress made against agreed actions from of responsibility: previous audits.
Detailed updates on specific audits are provided at the request of the Committee.
a comprehensive annual strategic and business planningprocess: How we manage risk As shown on the following page, the Company has a robust systems of control procedures and delegated authorities risk management process that follows a sequence of risk which operate within defined guidelines, and approval identification, assessment of probability and impact, and limits for capital and operating expenditure and other assigns an owner to manage mitigation activities.
A register key business transactions and decisions: is kept of all corporate risks and is monitored by senior a robust financial control, budgeting and rolling forecast management and reported to the Audit Committee.
system, which includes regular monitoring, variance analysis, key performance indicator reviews and risk Throughout the period of review, the risk register and the andopportunity assessments at Board level: methodology applied is the subject of continuous review procedures by which the Groups consolidated by senior management and updated to reflect new and financialstatements are prepared, which are developing areas which might impact business strategy.
monitoredand maintained through the use of internal The Audit Committee actively reviews the risk register control frameworks addressing key financial reporting andassesses the actions being taken by senior management risks arising from changes in the business or to monitor and mitigate the risks.
Those risks which accountingstandards: are considered to be the principal risks of the Group are an experienced and commercially focused legal presented on pages 28 to 29. functionthat supports the Groups operational and Review of effectiveness technical functions: The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews established policies and procedures setting out expected theeffectiveness of the internal control systems and the risk standards of integrity and ethical standards which management processes on an ongoing basis.
This process was reinforce the need for all employees to adhere to all in place throughout the year and post year endto include legaland regulatory requirements: the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Ateach meeting, an experienced and qualified finance function which the Audit Committee receives a paper frommanagement regularly assesses the possible financial impact of the detailing any whistleblowing activity, fraud identified risks facing the Group: and and any other issue deemed to be significant.
An internal audit update is also presented, detailing the scope of work an ongoing risk management programme, including performed and findings, along with implementation of acomprehensive disaster recovery and business any previous recommendations.
The Committee has not interruption plan.
identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses that it has determined to be significant.
indd 46 06 03 2016 20:38 I n t e r y n d P f l i r a t a a l n n o e A B d u I d i t s i s e y t a l c a i n n Corporate Governance The external auditors are not permitted to provide internal Risk management framework auditor services to the Group.
PwC have been selected asthe co-sponsor for our internal audit work.
Before any former employee of the external or internal audit team may be employed by the Group, careful consideration must be given as to whether the independence of the auditors will be adversely affected, and approval of the Audit Committee is required.
This particular circumstance has not arisen in the past year.
The auditors are required regularly to report on and confirm their independence in their role.
Deloitte were appointed as the Groups auditors in 2009 and the most recent partner rotation took place in 2013.
Under the new European and UK regulations, the Group would not S tr a t e gi c be required to execute a tender process until 2024, however O b j e c t i v e s a tender could be required by 2019 if the Competition and Markets Authoritys current proposals are adopted.
The Group will put the external audit out to tender to meet these requirements, however may decide to conduct an earlier tender if this is considered to be in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
A tender is not currently proposed for the coming financial year as it continues to be a period of significant growth in which the Company benefits from continuity.
The Audit Committee will keep this under review, in light of ongoing consultations by the Competition and Markets Authority and the Financial Reporting Council.
This approach to risk management helps to facilitate topdown and bottom-up perspectives across key business The Audit Committee has assessed the performance and risks within the organisation.
The corporate risk register effectiveness of the 2015 external audit process in the is presented to, and reviewed by, the Audit Committee past year, primarily through dialogue with the senior on a regular basis.
members of the finance and company secretarial teams.
A detailed follow-up will be scheduled upon completion Independence and performance of the auditors of the audit process including the individual subsidiary The Audit Committee has set a policy which is intended to statutory accounts audit process where additional feedback maintain the independence and integrity of the Companys will be sought from senior managers around the business auditors when acting as auditor of the Groups accounts.
not limited to the finance team through the use of audit The policy governs the provision of audit, audit-related quality questionnaires.
The initial results of the assessment assurance and non-audit services provided by the auditor were discussed with the Group finance team, before being and, in summary, requires approval by the Committee for presented to the Committee, to inform our recommendation all projects with an expected cost in excess of 50,000. to the Board for the annual re-appointment of the external auditors.
We believe that the Groups procedures During the year, the audit-related assurance services as summarised above safeguard the objectivity and provided by the auditors to the Group mainly comprised the independence of the auditors.
review of the half-year results.
Other services performed by the auditors in 2015 related mainly to the prospectus On behalf of the Audit Committee required for the placing and open offer.
They also included tax compliance and tax advisory work.
The fees paid for these other services during the year represented 49% of the fees paid for the statutory audit and audit-related assurance services together.
Further details Andrew Griffith of these amounts are included in note 8 of the accounts.
Chairman, Audit Committee The Company intends to comply with the new EU rules 29 February 2016 in relation to non-audit fees to the auditors which are to come into force in 2016 which excludes work carried out asReporting Accountants.
