Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report This was the first full year of JUST EAT being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
When we brought the Company to the public markets, it was compliant with theUKCorporate Governance Code with the exception of two provisions.
It became compliant with one of those provisions in 2015 and is set tobecome compliant with the other in 2016.
These steps towards full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code are simply a reflection of our wider commitment to best practice in corporate governance.
This commitment remains at the core of how JUST EAT is operated.
We view it as a key to the ongoing success of our growing business.
This continues to guide and provide the structure to how that success is being achieved.
In the past year, there have been a number of key corporate governance developments in JUST EAT: 1.
Following a recruitment process led by our Nomination Committee, in September 2015 we appointed Diego Oliva as an independent Non-executive Director.
Diegos Our commitments to high standards appointment has enriched the Board with his unique skills and experience.
of corporate governance and business Prior to the end of the year, we commenced a search integrity enable us to continue to set process for an additional independent Non-executive the tone as well as the direction of the Director and expect to announce an appointment during the first half of 2016.
I comment further on this management of the Group.
recruitment in the Report of the Board and Nomination Dr. John Hughes, CBE, Hon DSc Committee on page 42.
Chairman These appointments follow on from Henri Moissinac stepping down as an independent Non-executive Director in July 2015.
As well as our regular review of strategic matters at each main Board meeting, we held a specific strategy meeting of Directors and management to review, consider and guide the ongoing strategic development of the Group.
indd 34 06 03 2016 20:34 Corporate Governance to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Following detailed assessment by the Board, we completed the Board was therefore not fully compliant with this our first major acquisition as a public company, buying part of the Code, we believe its membership has worked Menulog Group, the clear market leader in Australia well.
When Benjamin Holmes and Michael Risman step and New Zealand.
The success of this acquisition is down from the Board by our 2016 AGM, the Board will areflection of the work put in by all involved.
become fully compliant with this provision of the Code.
We undertook the first formal evaluation of the Board.
Although the memberships of our Audit and This was externally facilitated and provides a guide for Remuneration Committees were not fully compliant with the ongoing development of the way the Board operates.
Code Provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1, respectively, for a short A summary of the process undertaken is included on period following Henri Moissinac stepping down as a page 42.
Director, both became fully compliant again once Diego 5.
We completed the evolution of the remuneration of Oliva was appointed to the Board and its Committees.
ourExecutive Directors towards typical practice for public companies.
I look forward to reporting to you next year on how our governance arrangements continue to develop.
This will These developments are part of our ongoing process to reflect the Company becoming fully compliant with the achieve best practice in corporate governance.
It will also take into account the results of the Board this as a journey rather than a destination.
In the same way evaluation.
We view continuous improvement as being as JUST EAT in the past year has continued to develop as important for us as a Board, just as it is for our business.
a business, so we will continue to evolve as a Board and to develop our governance arrangements.
Our commitments On behalf of the Board to high standards of corporate governance and business integrity enable us to continue to set the tone as well as thedirection of the management of the Group.
I believe this will remain an important contributor to the ongoing creation of sustainable shareholder value over the long term.
Dr. John Hughes, CBE, Hon DSc UK Code compliance Chairman This Corporate Governance Report, including the sections 29 February 2016 that follow, sets out how the Company has applied the main principles of good governance contained in the Code.
The Board considers that the Company has been compliant with the Code provisions that applied during the year with the following exceptions: 1.
1.2 recommends that at least half the members of the Board, excluding the Chairman, Later in this Corporate Governance Report: should comprise Non-executive Directors determined 1.
An introduction to our Board is given in the by the Board to be independent.
For the purposes of biographies of our Directors on the next pages.
assessing compliance with the Code, the Board considers that Gwyn Burr, Andrew Griffith, and Diego Oliva are 2.
More detail on the role and activities of the Board independent of management and free from any business and our Nomination Committee starts on page 38. or other relationship that could materially interfere with 3.
Andrew Griffith, the Chairman of our Audit the exercise of their judgement.
The Board also considers Committee, reports on its work commencing on that I, as Chairman of the Company, was independent page44.
atthe time of my appointment.
Gwyn Burr reports on the remuneration of our As well as our two Executive Directors, we have three Directors in her capacity as Chairman of our other Non-executive Directors who were nominated by Remuneration Committee, commencing on page 48. significant shareholders and are therefore not considered 35 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs034-043.
