Leadership Board meetings and attendance The Board agenda Leadership There are no specific requirements for We follow a formal agenda at our the frequency or timing of meetings of quarterly meetings, which is regularly the Board.
We meet at least four times reviewed and updated to cover key The Board and its responsibilities in each calendar year and hold additional operational and financial matters arising The Board has five Directors, all of ad hoc meetings as required.
All our in the business, as well as topical whom are non-executive.
Together, we Directors are given full and timely access issues impacting the real estate market, have overall responsibility for setting the to the information necessary to assist performance of peers and share price Groups strategic aims and maximising them in the performance of their duties.
We do this by The ad hoc meetings are generally called directing and supervising the affairs of to approve specific transactions, such as Regular agenda items include, the business, overseeing the Investment those involving a conflict of interest with amongst other things, a review of the Managers implementation of our the Investment Manager or when raising performance of the investments and strategy and investment policy, and capital.
Ad hoc meetings frequently an assessment of the progress of new meeting the appropriate interests of our involve a quorate sub-committee of the investment opportunities: consideration shareholders and relevant stakeholders.
We are also responsible for enhancing Board, which is appointed as necessary.
of financial results and cash flow the value of the Company and ensuring forecasts, including dividends declared our investors are protected.
The table below shows our Directors and dividend cover: receiving an attendance at the Board and Committee update on shareholder and investor Our responsibilities as a Board include, meetings from 1 January 2015 to communications, corporate brokers amongst other things: 31 December 2015. and broker reports, review of the free Determination of the investment float and the shareholder profile: due policy, and any amendments thereto.
We also meet at least once a year at a consideration of the principal risks The Companys investment policy formal planning session to discuss the and uncertainties facing the Group is set out on pages 150 to 151 of Companys investment strategy and and its business: a review of share price this report vision, industry insight into the Groups discount and premium management: Overseeing the performance of sector, asset classes and target markets, and, when appropriate, recommendations the Investment Manager and other as well as the pipeline in the Groups and updates from the Board Committees, key service providers target markets.
The strategy and planning with a review of policies and procedures, Reviewing the performance of the meeting for the year under review was a compliance report and an update Groups portfolio and activities, held in February 2015.
See paragraph on legislative regulatory obligations.
including its investment decisions entitled Strategic progress below for Compliance with statutory obligations further details.
In addition, the Board and rules around public disclosure attended a formal training session on Strategic matters and financial reporting compliance and regulatory matters in Risk assessment and management April 2015. including reporting, compliance, governance, monitoring and Our Company Secretary and Administrator, control and Crestbridge Fund Administrators Ltd, Other matters which have a material attends all our Board meetings.
We also effect on the Group.
We attach invite representatives of the Investment considerable importance to Manager, certain external service suppliers communicating with our shareholders and our Board apprentice to attend as and are committed to maintaining appropriate.
Further details about the Board a good understanding of their views.
apprentice programme are set out on page 68.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings Management Audit Nomination Engagement 1 Director Board Committee Committee Committee Charlotte Valeur 9 9 4 5 2 2 2 2 William McMorrow 9 9 Mark McNicholas 9 9 5 5 2 2 2 2 Simon Radford 9 9 4 5 2 2 Mary Ricks 9 9 2 2 Footnote: 1.
Excluding ad hoc committees 60 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Strategic progress The Investment Manager The Administrator Progress against our strategy is closely Under the terms of the IMA, the The Company has entered into monitored by the Investment Manager Investment Manager is responsible an administration agreement with and is discussed by the Board on a for the risk and portfolio management Crestbridge Fund Administrators Ltd. regular basis.
The Board is updated of the Companys assets.
It has full The Administrator provides day-to-day by the Investment Manager on at least discretionary authority to enter into administration services to the Company a quarterly basis about investments transactions for and on behalf of the and acts as Secretary to the Board made and asset management initiatives Company, subject to matters involving and its Committees.
The Administrator undertaken in the prior quarter, pipeline a conflict of interest which require the also provides regulatory and compliance deals and upcoming asset management formal consent of the independent support to the Company and the actions in the next quarter, the Groups Non-Executive Directors.
Investment Manager as regards liquidity and cash position as well as matters of Jersey law and regulation.
proposals for effective balance sheet We have delegated authority to the management in the next quarter and Investment Manager for the day-to-day The Directors have access to the beyond, and assessing overall real estate management of the assets held or advice and services of the Administrator, sector and target market dynamics.
We acquired by the Group and there is a who is responsible for ensuring that also regularly discuss our risk profile and prescribed schedule of investment and Board procedures are followed and any long-term market developments and management services that the Investment that it complies with Companies corresponding impact on the Groups Manager performs for the Group.
A Jersey Law 1991, and applicable rules portfolio within our standing agenda.
summary of the principal terms of the and regulations of the JFSC.
Where The Board questions any risk-prone IMA is set out on page 152 of this report.
necessary in carrying out their duties, assets in the Groups investment portfolio the Directors may seek independent and discusses strategy around mitigation Under the terms of the IMA, the professional advice and services at plans with the Investment Manager Investment Manager is responsible the expense of the Company.
Across all areas, the Board for preparing and executing on an as a whole aims to contribute to key annual business plan for the Companys The Management Engagement investment and operational decisions portfolio.
This encapsulates a sector-split Committee reviews the performance and provides challenge to the Investment approach to the Groups portfolio, further of the Administrator and other key Manager in a meaningful and timely split into its different operating markets service providers at appropriate intervals way by drawing on its broad and diverse and gives details of the proposed and makes recommendations to the experience and expertise.
At the strategy asset management initiatives to be Board should any changes need to and planning meeting in February 2015, implemented in the year by the be implemented.
we discussed real estate market Investment Manager.
The approved dynamics in the UK, Ireland, Spain and business plans are shared and discussed other new markets, and considered future with the Board and as described under pipeline opportunities, KWEs liquidity Strategic progress, the Board is updated profile and how our core capabilities on at least a quarterly basis about the could be further exploited.
We all found Investment Managers performance.
The Board formally reviews the Board Committees and the Investment Managers performance each governance structure year so that we can state, if appropriate, Our governance framework, including that their continued appointment is in our the committees established by the Board, shareholders best interests.
We have is summarised on the following pages.
reviewed the growth of the Company in the year to 31 December 2015 and Services taken into account the significant capital KWE is externally managed by Kennedy deployment, capital raisings and Wilson through a Jersey incorporated assembly of quality portfolio undertaken wholly-owned subsidiary, KW Investment by the Investment Manager during this Management Ltd that acts as investment time.
From the results of this review and manager to the Group.
KWE has no following the recommendations of the executive directors or internal senior Management Engagement Committee, management that are employees, except the Board is of the opinion that it is in the for hotel staff in its wholly-owned operating best interests of our shareholders as a subsidiaries at Portmarnock, Ireland and whole to continue the appointment of Fairmont St Andrews, Scotland.
the Investment Manager on the terms agreed under the IMA.
Crestbridge Fund Administrators Ltd provides administration services to the Further details on the Investment Company in its capacity as Administrator Manager are given in the Accountability and Company Secretary.
section on page 69 and in the Management Engagement Committee report on page 74.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Leadership continued Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc governance framework Control Accountability The Board We regularly review the governance framework to monitor and test its effectiveness in managing and controlling the business.
In addition, as a Board, we regularly consider whether any enhancements are required to meet the changing nature and environment in which the Group operates.
Management Engagement Committee Audit Committee The Management Engagement Committees The Audit Committee also fulfils the role of a primary purpose is to review the performance risk committee.
The primary role is to monitor of, and contractual arrangements with, the the integrity of the financial reporting of the Investment Manager.
Company and review the financial results to consider the appointment, independence and remuneration of the auditors.
For the Committee report For the Committee report see pages 74 to 75. see pages 70 to 73.
Investment Auditor Manager KW Investment Management KPMG provides external audit services to the Investment Advisors Group and KW Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson UK For more information see page 72 Kennedy Wilson Espaa Kennedy Wilson Europe Investment Committee For more information on the Investment Manager, see pages 61, 69 and 74 62 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc governance framework We have an Audit Committee, which also fulfils the role of a risk committee see pages 70 to 73, a Nomination Committee see pages 67 to 68 and a Management Engagement Committee see pages 74 to 75.
Each Committee has formally delegated duties and responsibilities and written terms of reference which the Board has approved.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the KWE website.
Under the provisions of the terms of reference, the Board formally reviews the membership and chairing of each committee at least once every three years.
As the Company has no executive officers, we have not established a separate remuneration committee.
The Board is satisfied that any relevant issues that arise in connection with the fees payable to the independent Non-Executive Directors can be properly considered by the Board as a whole.
No director is involved in any decisions in respect of his or her own individual remuneration.
For more information on Remuneration, see page 76.
Nomination Committee The primary purpose of the Nomination Committee is to fill vacancies on the Board and ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate level and balance of skills and experience to effectively lead the Company.
For the Committee report see pages 67 to 68.
Administrator and Company Secretary Key external service suppliers The Company appoints key service providers to enable it to deliver its Crestbridge Fund Administrators strategy to its stakeholders provides day-to-day administration services and acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees For more information see page 61 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Leadership continued Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Investment Manager Board Board Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Board of Directors Role and responsibility: The Board directs and supervises the affairs of the business, overseeing implementation of our strategy and investment Charlotte Valeur 52 William McMorrow 68 Non-Executive Chair Non-Executive Director policy by the Investment Manager Simon Radford 59 Mark McNicholas 50 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Mary Ricks 51 Non-Executive Director and Investment Manager Director Investment Manager Board of Directors Role and responsibility: Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc has delegated authority to the Investment Manager for the dayto-day management of the assets Andrew McNulty 38 Mark Hodgson 46 Investment Manager Director Investment Manager Director held or acquired by the Group Independent Board Committee membership Board Committees Management Date of appointment Independent Audit Engagement Nomination 1 Charlotte Valeur Non-Executive Chair 23 December 2013 M C M William McMorrow Non-Executive Director 24 January 2014 2 Mary Ricks Non-Executive Director 24 January 2014 M 3 23 January 2014 Simon Radford Non-Executive Director 24 January 2014 C M Mark McNicholas Non-Executive Director, SID 23 December 2013 M M C Andrew McNulty Investment Manager Director 3 January 2014 Mark Hodgson Investment Manager Director 11 November 2015 Footnotes: M: Member of committee C: Chair of committee 1.
Date of appointment to Board 3.
Date of appointment to Investment Manager 64 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
