Corporate governance statement Board of Directors 1 Roy Franklin 3 James Hind Chairman Finance Director Age: 62 Age: 51 Nationality: British Nationality: British Roy was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became Chairman of the James was appointed Finance Director in 2003 after joining the Group from Board and the Nomination Committee in 2009.
He was formerly Chief DSSmith plc, where he was Group Financial Controller.
Prior to that, after Executive of Paladin Resources plc and Group Managing Director of qualifying as anaccountant, James worked in the New York office of ClydePetroleum plc, following various senior management posts at BP.
Coopers & Lybrand advising on mergers and acquisitions.
Roysbackground in the international oil and gas sector brings with it an understanding of what it takes to operate within challenging markets.
4 Wolfgang Sondermann Roy is Deputy Chairman of Statoil A S and is a Non-executive Director Engineering and Operations Director ofthe Australian-listed company Santos Ltd.
He is also an Advisory Board Age: 65 Member of Kerogen Capital and is Chairman of privately held Cuadrilla Nationality: German Resources Holdings Limited.
Roy has been appointed as Non-executive Director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, the British multinational consultancy, A Geotechnical Engineer by training, Wolfgang joined the Group in 1986 engineering and project management company.
andwas appointed to the Board in 2003.
In January 2016, Wolfgang was appointed Engineering and Operations Director.
In 2014, Wolfgang was appointed as Chairman of the Board of the German Geotechnical Society 2 Alain Michaelis DGGT, a technical and scientific society dedicated to the science and Chief Executive application of soil and rock as a foundation and construction material.
Age: 49 Wolfgang will retire from the business in 2016.
Nationality: British Alain was appointed CEO of Keller in May 2015.
A Mechanical Engineer by 5 Ruth Cairnie training, he was previously Group Operations Director of Rolls-Royce plc Independent Non-executive Director where he also served as a major divisional head.
He has also held senior Age: 62 leadership positions at Tenneco, a Tier 1 automotive supplier, and at Nationality: British Wolseley, the building products distributor.
Alain began his career as aconsulting engineer at Arup.
Appointed to the Board in 2010, Ruth is a member of the Nomination, Auditand Health, Safety & Environment Committees and is Chairman ofthe Remuneration Committee.
4 3 2 1 KELLER GROUP PLC 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A physicist by background, Ruths strategic and commercial experience were Non-executive Director of Workspace Group PLC and South East Water gained within Shell, where she held a number of senior international roles, Limited and the independent Chairman Trustee for Slaughter and Mays most recently as Executive Vice President Strategy and Planning, before her pension fund.
Ruth is a Non-executive Director of Associated British Foods plc and Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
8 Nancy Tuor Moore Independent Non-executive Director 6 Paul Withers Age: 67 Senior Independent Director Nationality: American Age: 59 Nationality: British Nancy was appointed to the Board in 2014 and is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and Chairman of the Health, Appointed to the Board in 2012 and a member of the Audit, Nomination, Safety & Environment Committee.
Nancys extensive international business Remuneration and Health, Safety & Environment Committees, Paul is also experience, together with a proven record in winning and safely delivering the Senior Independent Director.
He qualified as a Chartered Mechanical both global and local contracts, was gained at CH2M Hill, Inc. where she Engineer and was Group Managing Director at BPB plc, the international held the board position of Group President and Corporate Sponsor for building materials business, where he spent his executive career.
He is a Sustainability before retiring in 2013.
Nancy is a Non-executive Director Non-executive Director of Devro plc and Premier Farnell plc.
ofGlobal Food Exchange and Terracon, Inc. and a member of the Board ofGovernors for Colorado State University.
7 Chris Girling Independent Non-executive Director 9 Kerry Porritt Age: 62 Company Secretary Nationality: British Age: 45 Nationality: British Chris was appointed to the Board in 2011 and is a member of the Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety & Environment Committees Kerry was appointed Company Secretary in 2013.
Kerry is a Fellow ofthe and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
ICSA and has 20 years experience as a company secretary in a wide range of FTSE100 companies.
She joined Keller as Company Secretary in 2013 A Chartered Accountant by training, Chris was formerly Group Finance and is Secretary to the Board and all its Committees.
Director of Carillion plc and he brings to Keller his background in a range of sectors, as well as recent and relevant financial experience.
He is a 6 8 5 7 9 KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41
