Audit Committee report The key area of focus for the Committee Beyond our primary function, we also Audit for the year under review was to monitor undertake the following principal duties: Committee report the principal changes to the Code which extended the Boards responsibilities to to discuss and agree with the confirm that it has undertaken a robust external auditors the nature and assessment of the principal risks facing scope of the audit the Company, including those that would to keep under review the scope, threaten the Groups business model, results and cost effectiveness of the future performance, solvency and audit and the independence and liquidity: to provide a statement of the objectivity of the auditors longer-term prospects and viability to review the external auditors letter of the Group: and also to monitor the of engagement and management Simon Radford Companys risk management and internal representation letters and make Audit Committee Chair control systems on a continuing basis.
recommendations to the Board to evaluate the need for an internal I believe that the Committee has audit function and supported the Board well in relation to to review the scope and effectiveness The Committee has these additional requirements being of the key internal control and reported on for the first time in this compliance procedures and risk supported the Board in Annual Report and Accounts.
maintaining sound financial Committee attendance during The Committees other reporting, risk management the period responsibilities and internal control We meet formally as a committee at least In addition to our principal duties, three times a year.
For the period under we are responsible for: procedures during the year.
review, we have held five meetings and our attendance is shown in this table.
assessing the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting Member Attendance procedures and Dear Shareholder, reviewing the adequacy and soundness Simon Radford 4 5 of procedures adopted by the Company Mark McNicholas 5 5 I am pleased to report on the activities for preventing and detecting fraud, and of the Audit Committee during its second Charlotte Valeur 4 5 the adequacy and soundness of the year of functioning.
Companys systems and controls for Crestbridge Fund Administrators Ltd the prevention of bribery and antiOur Audit Committee members are attends all our meetings as Secretary money laundering.
Charlotte Valeur, Mark McNicholas and to the Committee.
In addition, we invite Simon Radford.
The Audit Committee William McMorrow, Mary Ricks, other The Committees focus during is chaired by me, Simon Radford.
I am representatives of the Investment the period a chartered accountant in England and Manager and its investment advisors, During the year, we discussed the Wales and I am deemed by the Board our Board apprentice and our external following main matters at our meetings: to have recent and relevant financial auditors to attend as required.
experience for the purposes of the Code.
the detailed review of the content, The Committees terms of reference tone and format of the annual and Detailed biographies of the Our full terms of reference, explaining half-year press releases, financial Committee members are given our role and the authority delegated to reports including the annual report on pages 64 to 65. us by the Board, are available on the and accounts, as well as the KWE website.
quarterly business updates released During the year, the Committee has by the Company, and making supported the Board in maintaining sound The Committees purpose recommendations to the Board financial reporting, risk management and Our primary purpose is: for approval internal control procedures.
I have regular the review and approval of the meetings with the Groups external to monitor the integrity of the annual audit plan of the external auditors, and the finance and risk Companys financial reporting and auditor, and approval of the fee management teams at the Investment review its financial results for the external audit Manager to discuss matters which are to consider the appointment, discussion of reports from the external relevant to the Committees work.
To independence and remuneration auditor following their audit assist us in understanding the business of the auditors and the assessment of the effectiveness and the risks associated with it, I and other to undertake regular reviews of the of the external audit process, as members of the Committee visited a assurance reports related to key control described below number of the Groups sites during the and risk procedures adopted by the the review and consideration of the year and met members of the Investment Group.
Accordingly, the Audit report on the formal external risk Management team to discuss matters Committee also serves the role assessment of the Groups key risks: relevant to the Committee.
These visits of a risk committee.
the principal risks and uncertainties and meetings, together with the reports facing the Company are set out on we receive throughout the year, supported pages 32 to 36 the effective operation of the Committee.
70 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information the commissioning and review assumptions and judgements made Companys position and performance, of the report on the adequacy of the by the valuers.
The external auditors business model and strategy.
The Boards procedures and protocols in place had discussions with the independent conclusions in this respect are set out in for the appointment and retention valuers separately from the Audit the Directors statements on page 59. of key third party service providers Committee, using real estate specialists to the Group where appropriate, and have provided the Viability statement the need for an internal audit function Audit Committee with a summary of their Recent revisions to the UK Corporate specific to the Company review as part of their report on the Governance Code introduced a new the Companys tax framework, half-year and full-year results.
For details requirement for the Directors: taking structure and risks of the Groups properties and related account of the Companys current position the appointment of third party valuers, accounting policies see notes 3, 5, 17, and principal risks, to explain how they have the valuation methodology adopted 18, and 19 of the consolidated financial assessed the prospects of the Company, and approval of the valuation reports statements.
over what period they have done so the regulatory solvency requirements and why they consider that period to be relating to the declaration and payment For the year ended 31 December appropriate: and to state whether they have of quarterly dividends and 2015, the Audit Committee also a reasonable expectation that the Company reporting to the Board on how the specifically reviewed the calculation of will be able to continue in operation over Committee has discharged its the performance fee and agreed that the the period of their assessment, drawing responsibilities.
accounting treatment of the performance attention to any qualifications and fee to be paid to the Investment Manager assumptions as necessary.
This process Financial reporting and significant as included within the share-based requires the Directors to take into account judgements payments reserve was appropriate and their robust, systematic assessment of the consistent with the relevant accounting Groups principal risks as referred to on A detailed review of the Groups standards applicable to the Group.
page 32 to 36 and the Companys financial reporting processes is set resilience to the threats to its viability posed out on page 69.
Fair, balanced and understandable by those risks in severe but plausible FBU scenarios.
These have been considered During the period under review, we The production and the audit of within the timeframe of three years which monitored the integrity of the financial the Companys Annual Report and aligns with our viability statement contained information published in the interim and Accounts is a comprehensive process in the Directors statements on page 59. annual consolidated financial statements requiring input from a number of as well as quarterly updates and different contributors.
In order to reach To enable it to support the Board in its considered the extent to which suitable a conclusion on whether the Companys preparation of the viability statement, accounting policies have been adopted, Annual Report and Accounts, taken the Committee spent time, at a formal presented and disclosed.
In making as a whole, is fair, balanced and meeting and two working group sessions, our assessment, the Audit Committee understandable, as required under the reviewing information provided by the received and considered reports from the Code, the Board requested that we Investment Manager.
At its December Investment Manager, the audit strategy advise on whether we consider that the meeting, the Committee considered and focus of the external auditors and the Annual Report and Accounts fulfils these and provided input into the determination methodology adopted by our external requirements.
In giving our advice, of which of the Groups principal risks valuers.
Taking into account information we have considered the following: and combinations thereof might have from these activities, we considered an impact on the Groups liquidity and whether the Investment Manager had the comprehensive documentation solvency, its business model and future made suitable and appropriate estimates that is in place outlining the controls performance.
At its January 2016 meeting, and judgements.
In addition, we in place for the production of the Committee reviewed the results of assessed the independence, objectivity the Annual Report and Accounts, managements scenario modelling and and competence of our valuers.
including the verification processes in stress tests of key sensitivities.
place to confirm the factual content and As the valuation of the Groups portfolio the detailed reviews undertaken The viability statement can be is fundamental to the Groups balance at various stages of the production found on page 59. sheet, the Audit Committee invited the process by the Investment Manager, independent valuers along with our Administrator, auditors and ourselves, auditors to discuss the valuations that are intended to ensure consistency, included within the annual consolidated accuracy and truthfulness of content, financial statements.
This included a and overall balance in presentation.
rigorous review of the valuation process undertaken, changes in market conditions As a result of the work performed, and recent transactions in the market and we have concluded and reported to the how these have impacted upon the third Board that, in our view, the Annual Report party valuations.
It also included valuation and Accounts for the year ended movements on individual properties and 31 December 2015, taken as a whole, the independent valuers expectations in is fair, balanced and understandable and relation to future rental growth and yield provides the information necessary for movement, as well as the potential our shareholders to assess the impact of the British referendum on EU membership on the Groups UK portfolio.
At the same time, it challenged the Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Audit Committee report continued Risk review and internal control that, in the Committees view, signify an To maintain audit quality and provide A detailed review of the Groups risk appropriate level of assessment for the comfort on the integrity of financial management cycle and framework is set Group given its current size, operations, reporting, we reviewed, challenged out on pages 32 to 36.
The Audit maturity and growth strategies over the and approved the annual audit plan of Committee has reviewed the Companys next 18 months.
We ensured that risk management framework and its the audit work focused on matters we policies for preventing or detecting fraud, Internal audit considered to be important, by virtue of and is satisfied that the Company has During the year under review, the Board their size, potential impact, complexity systems and procedures in place to discussed and considered the need for and level of judgement.
safeguard compliance with relevant a formal internal audit function.
The regulatory and legal requirements.
Board reviewed the Companys operating We are responsible for the evaluation model and, in particular, the external of our external auditors and for The Audit Committee has overseen management structure which it has put communicating the results of this the external risk assessment of the in place to manage the Company.
After evaluation to the Board.
In doing so we third party service provider engagement deliberation and consideration of the brief considered a range of factors including the protocols in place at the Investment period of operation of the Company, and quality of service, our external auditors Manager and the Company.
This process weighing the costs of an internal audit specialist expertise, the level of audit fee, involved the Audit Committee authorising function against the current needs of the and independence.
We have evaluated the the scope of work and fee proposal, business, and taking into account the role work completed by our external auditor giving interviews to provide independent the Investment Manager Group can play in in the year to 31 December 2015, taking feedback and assisting with the assessing and evaluating current business into account the fees paid to KPMG, and preparation of the assessment report risks, an internal audit function specific to are satisfied with their effectiveness, and participating in ad hoc sessions the Company was considered by the Audit objectivity and their independence.
discussing draft findings in the report.
Committee to be unnecessary at this point A final report has since been submitted in the Companys life.
However, as the We do not consider it necessary to with the results and recommendations.
Company matures, a regular discussion require our external auditor to tender for on an annual basis, in accordance with the the audit work at this time, although we Further details are set out in Code should take place, with input from will review this matter annually and any the Management Engagement the Audit Committee.
The Board also recommendation to re-appoint the auditor Committee report on pages 74 to 75. noted that it was open to the Audit will be subject to continued satisfactory Committee to appoint external advisors to performance.
As KPMG also provides audit In addition, the Company engaged a undertake individual assessment projects services to the Investment Manager Group, leading risk and business consulting on specific risk areas where it was felt that the Committee discussed whether there firm to undertake a comprehensive risk this was necessary or where in its view were any rules in the US applicable to the assessment and evaluation of the principal the Investment Manager was conflicted.
ultimate parent of the Investment Manager inherent risks facing the Group and that provided for re-tendering for audit developing a strategic assessment plan External audit services and the time frame for that, and representative of the Companys specific KPMG provides audit services to the Group noted the US rules required a rotation of the business, strategic objectives and risk and has been the Companys auditor since audit partner every five years but there was profile.
Many of these areas of high its incorporation in 2013.
The Annual Report no requirement to change the auditor.
inherent risk identified under the and Accounts have been prepared in assessment are aligned to the risks accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Non-audit services identified by the Board in the Groups risk EU.
Since the fees charged by our external Following EU rules to be implemented register and also articulated in the Groups auditor will depend on the services provided from June 2016 and investor feedback public disclosure documents.
Given the and the time spent by our auditor on the on the auditor appointment resolution nature of the high inherent risks identified, affairs of the Group, there is no maximum at the AGM in 2015, the Committee has it was noted that the Board is in a position amount payable to the auditor, although the taken serious note of the levels of certain to influence the Groups net exposure Board continually keeps the auditors fees non-audit fees in the Group, and has to these risks through its governance, under review and benchmarks against the implemented a non-audit services policy oversight of the Investment Manager and fees paid by its peers.
to ensure auditor objectivity and adopting a robust internal control structure.
These KPMG was re-appointed as external services include any financial and tax The final results of the risk assessment auditor to the Company at the AGM due diligence as well as tax structuring exercise have since been used to update held in 2015 and is recommended by undertaken on any new investments: the Groups risk register.
A description of the Audit Committee and the Board for overall tax structuring for the Group: tax the principal risks and uncertainties facing re-appointment in 2016.
No formal tender compliance services ongoing and ad the Group is set out on pages 32 to 36.
The process was initiated in connection hoc : and any other matters that would proposed strategic assessment plan for the with KPMGs first appointment in 2013, customarily be within the scope of next 18 months recognises differing types since it was considered at that time that non-audit services such as audit related levels of review based on the importance KPMGs knowledge of the Investment assurance services.
and perceived risk to the Group and Manager Group made it the most suitable preliminary insight into control maturity, candidate for the role.
KPMG continues to and identifies certain strategic assessment provide audit services to the Investment projects such as regulatory compliance Manager Group.
and, data governance and reporting.
The Committee agrees with the inherent risk findings and intends to authorise the proposed strategic assessment projects 72 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information All transaction advisory services, including Non-audit fees paid to the auditor tax structuring and financial and tax due diligence, are to be put to tender and Work undertaken Rationale for using the external auditor Fee m appointment decisions are to be made Tax structuring and tax Detailed knowledge and understanding 0.4 on merit and competitive pricing, whilst advisory services such as on of the business and requirements of the ensuring that the auditors independence the acquisition of the Gatsby exercise.
The work was performed by and objectivity is not prejudiced and overall portfolio, the Groups first a team independent of the audit team.
audit versus non-audit fee levels are not investment in Italy and the The audit team places no reliance on to be exceeded above specified levels sale of the Avon portfolio these procedures.
where the selected provider is the same as the external auditor except in cases Services on the Italian acquisition were of compelling commercial rationale.
an extension of the overall tax structuring Prior consent of the Audit Committee undertaken by KPMG at the time of the is required before the appointment is Companys IPO in the Groups target made in such cases.
This work was undertaken by KPMG prior to implementation of the Following implementation of the non-audit non-audit services policy described services policy, a global tender process in this report was initiated for transaction support services for the Group in Europe and Transaction advisory services Detailed knowledge and understanding 0.2 following a competitive bidding process such as financial and tax due of the business and requirements of the and recommendations from the diligence on the acquisition exercise.
The work was performed by a Investment Manager, in December 2015, of 111 BPR, certain aborted team independent of the audit team.
The the Audit Committee appointed a panel deals and pipeline deals, and audit team places no reliance on these of Deloitte and  AVL strategy execution on procedures.
to provide such services to the Group.
Gardner House and Lakelands Further, the Audit Committee authorised Retail Park the selection and appointment of Ernst & Young to provide tax compliance services Tax compliance services such Detailed knowledge and understanding 0.1 to the Group.
as WHT VAT, NRL filings of the business and requirements of the exercise.
The work was performed by Fee to external auditor a team independent of the audit team.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, The audit team places no reliance on KPMG was paid a fee of approximately these procedures.
0.6 million relating to audit and audit related services rendered to the Group FY 2014: 1.2m, and a fee of approximately 0.7 million relating to non-audit services, primarily relating to the provision of tax The Committees effectiveness and transaction advisory services in This was the Companys and the Audit connection with acquisitions made Committees second year of operation, and by the Group FY 2014: 0.9m I am very pleased to report on behalf of the Committee that it has acted in accordance Of the 0.7 million non-audit fees paid to with its documented terms of reference, KPMG, the significant expenditure in the established policies and procedures with year is outlined below: a view to creating a platform for the future, and overall provided valuable input to the The Committee noted that there was a Board on the areas set out above.
I have significant reduction in the fee paid to KPMG been well-supported by my colleagues on for non-audit and audit related services in the Committee and thank them for their 2015 2014: 1.8 million.
It was observed contributions during the year.
that the higher fees in 2014 were in part due to audit related services provided on the Companys IPO and its subsequent capital raising in the same year, and the fee reduction in 2015 should be attributed to the Simon Radford successful implementation and execution Audit Committee Chair of the non-audit services policy.
As a Committee, we have reviewed the provision of non-audit services in the period under review, including the fee paid for the same and believe them to be cost-effective and not an impediment to our external auditors objectivity and independence.
It is however the Companys intention to monitor this closely on an ongoing basis and ensure compliance with the recently adopted non-audit services policy as detailed above.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Management Engagement Committee report The key area of focus for the Committee The Committees other Management for the year under review was to responsibilities are: Engagement assess and review the protocols around to make recommendations, as required, engagement of key third party service on any amendments or material Committee report providers to the Group.
We have worked breaches of the IMA closely with the investment management to reasonably satisfy itself that the team and the externally appointed risk systems put in place by the Investment and business consulting firm to develop Manager in respect of the Company an early understanding of the risks and are adequate to meet all legal and processes around service providers to the regulatory requirements Group.
These early meetings have been to put in place procedures by which the marked by open, constructive discussion Board regularly reviews the continued and I would like to thank all participants retention of the Investment Managers Charlotte Valeur for their contribution.
services and Management Engagement Committee Chair to determine which non-management Committee attendance during services should be sub-contracted and the period review and evaluate the performance We meet at least once a year, usually in of, and the terms of, the Companys the quarter before the preparation of the arrangements with other third party The Committee was very Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
service providers other than the pleased with the Investment external auditors and to ensure that Member Attendance the terms are fair and reasonable for Managers performance and shareholders.
Charlotte Valeur 2 2 the Company has made Mark McNicholas 2 2 The Committees focus during considerable progress in Simon Radford 2 2 the period developing critical processes The Committees key focus for the period Crestbridge Fund Administrators Ltd was ensuring establishment of systems in its two-year history.
attend all our meetings as Secretary and procedures to address engagement to the Committee.
In addition, we and management of third party service invite representatives of the Investment providers 3PSP in the Groups business, Manager and its investment advisors, the adequacy of the reporting systems to our Board apprentice and our external Dear Shareholder, address legal and regulatory compliance auditor to attend as required.
and, lastly, the effectiveness of the I am pleased to report on the activities investment management services The Committees terms of reference of the Management Engagement provided by the Investment Manager Our full terms of reference, explaining Committee during its second year of including periodic reporting to the Board.
our role and the authority delegated to functioning.
I will be available at the AGM us by the Board, are available on the on 27 April 2016 to answer any questions Review of the Investment Manager KWE website.
you may have about the Committees The Committee noted the reporting work in 2015. systems put in place by the Investment The Committees purpose Manager since the Companys Our Management Engagement Committee Our Management Engagement Committee incorporation, including Board exists to ensure that the Companys members are Mark McNicholas, Simon communication plans, site visits, pipeline investment management agreement is Radford and Charlotte Valeur.
In addition reasonable for our shareholders, along with Management Engagement Committee is to a fast-paced build-up of the Groups the Companys agreements with all other chaired by me, Charlotte Valeur.
investment portfolio through high quality third party service providers other than acquisitions, the Committee also our external auditors.
We also review and Detailed biographies of the considered the Investment Managers evaluate the performance, contractual Committee members are given annual business plans for the portfolio arrangements, fees and appointment of the on pages 64 to 65. which involved a pruning of the investment Investment Manager and other third party portfolio with an active disposal pipeline service providers, other than our external coming up in 2016, as well as significant auditor, on a periodic basis.
value add asset management initiatives aimed towards capital appreciation and rental growth.
The Committee was very pleased with the Investment Managers performance in the highly competitive real estate market, and was of the view that the Investment Managers continued appointment on the terms agreed in the IMA is in our shareholders best interests.
74 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Evaluation of key third party The Committee also noted, that service providers following discussions with the investment Consistent with other equivalent externally management team, it was evident that managed investment companies, the there is a strong control consciousness Committee is cognisant of the fact that amongst those who play a key day-to-day the Company is dependent on the role in managing 3PSP relationships and involvement of third party service activities on behalf of the Company and providers 3PSP in all aspects of its this was key towards mitigating any business operations.
With no direct risks arising out of 3PSP engagement employees of the Company and externally and management.
managed by the Investment Manager, the delegation of activities to 3PSPs Legal and regulatory compliance represented one of the significant costs to Separately, the Committee also the Company in addition to acquisitions considered the adequacy and robustness enabling the Company to draw on the of systems put in place by the Investment expertise of such providers in delivering Manager in respect of the Company its strategy to its investors.
Whereas the to satisfy itself that they are adequate most critical delegation of services, being to meet all its legal and regulatory investment management services, is to requirements, and was satisfied with the the Investment Manager, the Company reporting systems on this front covering also appoints other key service providers Jersey, UK, Ireland, Luxembourg, Spain in relation to acquisitions disposals, asset and more recently, Italy.
management, development projects and general administrative operations and The Committees effectiveness other ongoing operations services.
This was the Companys and the Management Engagement Committees In 2015, the Company engaged an second year of operation, and I am external risk and business consulting firm very pleased to report on behalf of to undertake a high level review of the the Committee that it has acted in Companys 3PSP control environment and accordance with its documented terms management of oversight risk.
The review of reference, established policies and spanned areas of adequacy of governance, procedures with a view to creating existence of risk-based policies and a platform for the future, and overall procedures governing the 3PSP process, provided valuable input to the Board on selection and due diligence, execution the areas set out above.
The Investment of service contracts with clearly defined Manager and other key service providers terms, conditions and service provisions were functioning effectively and there including appropriate contract approvals, were robust systems, policies and performance monitoring and lastly exit and procedures in place to support a strong transition planning.
The Committee noted governance framework expected of the the results of evaluation and is of the view Company by its stakeholders.
that the Company and the Investment Manager through its management team had made considerable progress in developing critical processes and baseline controls over the end to end Charlotte Valeur 3PSP processes in the limited two-year Management Engagement Committee operating history.
The existing framework Chair is adequately supported by policies and procedures, employee training and management reporting which allows the Board to have visibility over the delegation function and related risks, and certain of the recommendations from the external report add to the robustness of the existing approvals framework.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75
