OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nomination Committee report Activities of the Committee An evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out in June 2014, by means of an electronic questionnaire compiled by the Company Secretary and facilitated by Lintstock.
Two clear areas of consideration were raised by members of the Board: succession planning for the Chairman: and the constitution of the Board Committees.
The Chairman followed up these areas with the members of the Board individually in the first quarter of 2015 and the following actions have been taken: Succession planning for the Chairman Further to Roy Franklins advice of his intention to retire from the Boardduring 2016, the Nomination Committee appointed Zygos toleadthe search for the Chairmans successor.
Paul Withers, as theSeniorIndependent Director, is leading the process on behalf oftheCommittee and a project timeline for the search and future appointmenthas been agreed.
Roy A Franklin Chairman of the Nomination Committee Constitution of the Board Committees Further to discussion regarding the membership of the Board Committees: Nomination Committee membership: a a ll Non-executive Directors are now members of each Board Roy Franklin Chairman Committee: and Ruth Cairnie b the CEO is no longer a member of the Nomination Committee.
Chris Girling Nancy Tuor Moore Succession planning for the Non-executive Directors Paul Withers In addition to the above actions, the Chairman and Company Secretary commenced a process looking at a more formal approach to Nonexecutive Director succession planning.
It was also agreed that the Dear shareholder traditional length of tenure of the Non-executive Director of three terms This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee of three years each be amended to two terms of three years each, with andthe work it carried out during 2015. annual renewal up to a maximum period of three years thereafter, to allow for more flexibility in the succession planning process.
Key objective The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board Other activities of the Committee since the last report were as follows: andthe knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of theDirectors.
CEO succession planning, culminating in the retirement of Justin Atkinson and appointment of Alain Michaelis on 14 May 2015: and Terms of reference of the Committee oversight of the implementation of the Groups executive development The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the programme.
year, are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk and on request from the Company Secretary.
Keller and the Committee continue to encourage and welcome interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Boards Committee membership diversity.
The Boards overriding objective is to continue to provide Only the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are members of effective leadership and, therefore, the Committee continues to theCommittee.
recommend for appointment only the most appropriate candidates totheBoard in line with the criteria set out on page 45.
There are, Justin Atkinson, who retired as CEO of the Company on 14 May 2015, therefore, no formal targets set for female representation at Board level.
was a member of the Committee until his retirement but did not attend meetings where CEO succession was discussed.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all members of the Board will seek re-election at the Annual Committee meetings General Meeting in May 2016, with the exception of Alain Michaelis No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be whowill seek his first election.
The Committee may invite members of the senior management to attend meetings where it is felt appropriate and In December 2015, the Committee formally reviewed the performance, Alain Michaelis, the CEO, and Jackie Holman and Serge Zimmerlin the contribution and commitment of each of the Directors retiring at this Group HR Director to 30 November 2015 and from 1 December 2015, years AGM and seeking reappointment, and supported and recommended respectively attended certain meetings during the year.
their reappointment to the Board.
The Committee has confirmed thateach Director continues to perform well both on an individual and The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.
During this collective basis, making a valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations financial year the Committee met four times.
and demonstrating commitment to Kellers long-term interests.
Roy A Franklin Chairman of the Nomination Committee 29 February 2016 KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49
