Resources and relationships Our relationship with Kennedy Wilson The investment advisors use a rigorous KWs strong team culture has ensured KW Investment Management Ltd is our investment process when advising the that the teams broad and complementary Investment Manager.
It is wholly-owned Investment Manager.
They identify skill sets in equity, debt and real estate all and controlled by KW and delegates opportunities that fit KWEs investment work towards delivering total shareholder some of its responsibilities and functions policy and conduct due diligence on return for KWE.
This enables us to to its three investment advisors, who them.
The Investment Manager has sole capitalise on numerous investment are also KW group companies.
The discretion to make investment decisions.
opportunities across all facets of the investment advisors are: real estate market.
KWs track record As KWEs portfolio has grown, we have in Europe and its reputation as a reliable KW Europe, which provides investmentbenefited from KW expanding its European counterparty that closes deals quickly related services, including advisory and management and advisory team.
This has strengthens the Investment Managers deal sourcing increased from around 50 people at the sourcing ability and puts KWE in a strong KW UK, which provides property time of the IPO in February 2014 to over 80 position to expand into new countries management services, including leasing at the year end, with senior local managers where appropriate.
and rent reviews and, if requested by representing each part of the business.
the Investment Manager, investment These professionals further strengthen related services in the UK and KWs local contacts with agents, brokers, KW Espaa, which provides, if joint venture partners, private equity requested by the Investment Manager, participants and vendors.
The KW Europe Investment Committee IC The KW Europe Investment Committee This structure allows KWE to benefit from IC comprises senior members of the KWs international expertise, reputation, KW team, with expertise in European resources and relationships.
KW has more and global real estate and financial than 25 years of investment experience markets.
The IC provides the Investment in North America, Asia and Europe, Manager with valuable industry insight, with over $18.1 billion 12.3 billion as well as access to KWs global network of assets under management globally of relationships.
It evaluates industry at 31 December 2015.
William McMorrow trends and augments the services of the Chairman & CEO Investment Manager and its advisors.
Kennedy Wilson Mary Ricks Fiona DSilva Peter Hewetson President & CEO Head of Origination Head of UK Direct Real Estate Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Europe Peter Collins Matt Windisch Gautam Doshi COO & Head of Ireland Executive Vice President Senior Director Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Kennedy Wilson Europe 26 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Acquired retail unit with three office Neal Street disposal units of 5,590 sq ft, with retail unit let to Speedo and office units Covent Garden above vacant 16% London WC2, UK Acquired 28 March 2014, Uplift secured at rent review over Secured planning permission to part of Artemis portfolio passing rent comprehensively refurbish property and change the top two floors from office to residential Undertook full marketed disposals 67% process, upon receiving unsolicited approaches, and completed sale to Return on cost on disposal a listed REIT in November 2015 for 14.8 million.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
