Corporate governance statement continued Audit Committee report Activities of the Committee During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: reviewing a report on the Groups system of internal control and its effectiveness and receiving regular updates on the Groups principal risks: reviewing a report from management on their process for assessing the Groups viability over a three-year period and reporting the outcomes of the assessment to the Board: reviewing and approving the Auditors engagement letter and audit fee: reviewing the Auditors reports and the Groups draft financial statements and recommending them for approval to the Board: reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its cost-effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Auditors: undertaking an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit process: approving a rolling four-year programme of internal audit reviews of aspects of the Groups operations and financial controls and receiving reports on all reviews carried out during the year: receiving briefings on various technical issues, such as accounting standards and their practical consequences for Keller: reviewing the Groups whistleblowing policy and monitoring the procedures in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possibleimpropriety: Chris Girling reviewing the process for the refresh of the Groups Code of Business Chairman of the Audit Committee Conduct and its programme for implementation in 2016: reviewing the Committees effectiveness and its terms of reference: reviewing the Groups policy on employment of the Auditors for Audit Committee membership: non-auditservices: Chris Girling Chairman reviewing the need for an internal audit function: and Ruth Cairnie appointed 24 September 2015 reviewing the Groups policy on the employment of former employees Nancy Tuor Moore ofthe Auditors.
Paul Withers The Audit Committee also reviewed the Companys processes and the outcomes of those processes to ensure that it was able to offer advice to Dear shareholder theBoard over whether the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts can be This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee considered fair, balanced and understandable.
The following processes are in andthework it carried out during the year.
place to provide this assurance: the co-ordination and review of the Annual Report and Accounts was performed within an exacting time-frame which The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial ran alongside the formal audit process undertaken by the Auditors: guidance Controller and the Companys external auditors the Auditors was issued to contributors at an operational level: an internal verification normallyattend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
process dealing with the factual content of the reports took place: and a , in their role as internal auditors, attend comprehensive review was undertaken by the senior management team atleasttwo meetings of the Committee each year.
andexternal advisers that aimed to ensure consistency and overall balance.
Key objective Significant issues considered by the Committee included those identified in The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility for the Independent Auditors Report.
They related to the financial statements ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and focused on the Groups approach to key estimates and judgments in up-to-date information onitsfinancial position and that the Groups connection with: published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
It also reviews the Groups systems of internal control and the accounting for construction contracts.
The main factors considered when processes formonitoring andevaluating the risks facing the Group.
making those estimates and judgments include the percentage of work completed at the balance sheet date on longer-term contracts, the costs Terms of reference of the Committee ofthe work required to complete the contract and the outcome of claims The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during and variations raised against customers and claims raised against the Group theyear, are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk and by customers or third parties.
The Committee has reviewed a report onrequest from the Company Secretary.
prepared by management on the key estimates and judgments relating to construction contracts having a material impact on the Groups result for Committee membership the year: and Further to the 2015 Board and Committee review and evaluation the carrying value of goodwill.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill process, itwas agreed that all of the Non-executive Directors should has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy constitute the membership of all of the Board Committees.
Accordingly, setout in note 2 to the financial statements.
The Group estimates the Ruth Cairnie wasappointed a member of the Committee with effect recoverable amount based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations from 24 September 2015. require the use of assumptions, the most important being the forecast revenues, operating margins and the discount rate applied.
The key Committee meetings assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations are set out in note 13 to The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.
During this the financial statements.
The Committee has reviewed the key assumptions financial year the Committee met five times, all with the Companys used for all impairment tests of material goodwill balances.
In particular, this Auditors in attendance, and on two of these occasions, the Committee review has focused on Keller Canada where there is the most uncertainty met privately with the Auditors without management being present.
surrounding the projections used in the value-in-use calculation.
KELLER GROUP PLC 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee also examined the disclosure of items which are described A detailed assessment of the amounts and relationship of audit and as exceptional in the consolidated income statement and discussed the non-audit fees and services is carried out each year and the Audit appropriateness of such disclosure with the Companys Auditors.
Committee has developed and implemented a policy regulating the placingof non-audit services to the Auditors, which should prevent any These matters and any audit differences are considered in the Committee impairment of independence.
Any work awarded to the Auditors, other meetings that review the full-year and interim results.
At these meetings, than audit or tax compliance, with a value in excess of 100,000 requires theCommittee discusses with the Auditors whether they consider thespecific approval of the Committee.
The Committee is aware of managements assumptions behind these estimates and judgments to thenew EU legislation, effective from mid-2016, restricting auditors from beconservative or aggressive.
In addition, during such meetings, the providing certain non-audit services and is monitoring the UKs adoption Committee meets with the Auditors without management being present.
The Committee will ensure that the Company complieswith thenew UK guidance once implemented.
Internal audit  continues to provide a structured programme Over the last three years, the ratio of non-audit related fees paid to ofindependent, outsourced reviews of all material business units at least theAuditor averaged 57% of the total audit fee.
Excluding the Reporting once every four years.
During 2015, the Audit Committee received and Accountants work which KPMG provided on the acquisition of Keller considered reports from  which detailed the Canada in 2013, this ratio falls to 37%.
The ratio of non-audit related fees progress against the agreed work programme.
This programme covered paidto the Auditor in 2015 is 40% of the total audit fee.
reviews of seven business units in six countries, which together  20% of the Groups revenue for the year.
Also, as part of its annual review of Auditors independence, the It included, for example, assessments of our Franki Africa businesses Committeereviews the level and nature of entertainment between inSouth AfricaandMozambique: the Case business in the US: the theAuditors and management.
Waterway business in Australia: and Keller Malaysia.
Although there remainsscope to improve the formality of certain controls in certain A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at businesses to ensure they operate more effectively, there were no theAnnual General Meeting to be held in May 2016. findingsthat  considered of a significant nature.
InSeptember, the Committee formally reviewed the effectiveness of thesearrangements and discussed them and any action plans arising Chris Girling withmanagement, concluding that the internal audit arrangements Chairman of the Audit Committee wereappropriate and effective.
29 February 2016 External audit The Committee places great importance on ensuring there are high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process and complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA Audit Order throughout the year.
KPMG, and its predecessor firms, has been the Companys auditor since theCompany first listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1994.
As set outin our 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, KPMG were re-appointed astheCompanys Auditor in 2014 subsequent to a robust retendering of theexternal audit process.
Following the introduction of the draft UK andEUguidance on mandatory auditor rotation, the Committee anticipates retendering the external audit again for the 2019 year-end, the year after the Companys existing lead audit partner will be required to rotate off theaudit of the Group.
The Committee has undertaken an assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process of the 2014 financial statements.
This assessment focused on: the calibre of the audit firm including reputation, presence inthe industry, size, resources and geographic spread : its quality control processes: the quality of the team assigned to the audit: the audit scope, feeand audit communications: and the governance and independence of theaudit firm.
There are a number of checks and controls in place for safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the Auditors.
There are open lines of communication and reporting between the Auditors and the Committee and when presenting their independence letter KPMG LLP discuss with theCommittee their internal process for ensuring independence.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51
