Corporate governance Leadership and effectiveness Governance structure An outline of Kiers governance structure is as follows: Kier Group plc Board Nomination Risk Safety, Health Remuneration Executive 1 Committee Management and Environment Committee Committee see page 74 and Audit Committee see page 84 Committee see page 82 see page 76 1 Comprises the executive directors, with the Company Secretary as secretary.
The Board During the course of the year, the following The Board is responsible for the effective leadership appointments were made to the Board: of the Group.
The Groups management and governance framework, which is summarised above, Kirsty Bashforth Non-Executive Director, has been implemented to support the Groups witheffect from 1 September 2014: long-term growth objectives.
Bev Dew Finance Director, with effect from 1January 2015: The diverse range of skills and leadership experience of Nigel Brook Executive Director Construction the non-executive directors enables them to scrutinise andInfrastructure Services, with effect from performance, assess the Groups risk management 6March 2015: and control processes, provide constructive challenge Nigel Turner Executive Director Developments and support the executive directors.
and Property Services, with effect from 6March2015: and There are typically 10 scheduled Board meetings during Claudio Veritiero Group Strategy and Corporate the year: additional meetings are arranged if Development Director, with effect from required.
The Board committee meetings are typically 6March2015.
scheduled around the regular Board meetings.
Steve Bowcott, the former Chief Operating Officer, Biographical details of each of the directors are set stood down from theBoard with effect from out on pages 64 to 66 inclusive.
Board composition On 30 July 2015, we announced that Justin Atkinson As at 30 June 2015, the Board comprised the had been appointed as a non-executive director with Chairman, five executive directors and four other effect from 1 October 2015. non-executive directors.
67 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Corporate governance Leadership and effectiveness continued Division of responsibilities A clear division of responsibilities is important for the effective working of the Board.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive work together to provide effective and complementary stewardship of the Board and the Company.
The roles of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director are clearly defined, as summarised below: Role Description Chairman Responsible for the Boards effectiveness Phil White Sets the agenda for Board meetings, ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information Facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executive directors Responsible for effective communication with shareholders Chief Executive Responsible for the operational management of the Group Haydn Mursell Accountable to the Board for the implementation of the Groups strategy Meets regularly with other members of senior management, focusing on a variety of matters, including strategy, significant operational issues, succession planning and other material issues facing the Group Senior Acts as chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted Independent Acts as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns if other Director channels of communication are not appropriate Richard Bailey Ensures that the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on his performance The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the appointment before acceptance.
The major Board and each of its committees.
The Chairman commitments of the executive and non-executive meets the Senior Independent Director and the directors are outlined in their biographies on pages Company Secretary to discuss Board and governance 64 to 66 inclusive.
In addition, the Chairman holds meetings remains satisfied that all non-executive directors with the non-executive directors without the have sufficient time to meet their commitments executive directors being present.
The Senior totheCompany and that the Chairmans other Independent Director also holds meetings with the commitments do not interfere with the performance non-executive directors without the Chairman being of his day-to-day duties to the Company.
present at least once a year.
Board committees Re-election of directors The Board has delegated certain responsibilities In accordance with the requirements of the Code, toits committees.
The terms of reference for each each of the current directors will offer himself herself committee are reviewed annually and are available for election or re-election as the case may be at on the Companys website at http: www.
As it is the first corporategovernance.
The principal activities of AGM since their appointments, resolutions will eachof these committees during the year are set alsobe proposed to elect Kirsty Bashforth, BevDew, outin their respective reports on pages 74 to 106 Nigel Brook, NigelTurner, Claudio Veritiero and inclusive.
Executive directors also attend meetings JustinAtkinson asdirectors.
of the Board committees when required by the chair of therelevant committee to do so.
Details of the Following the evaluation of the Board's performance attendance at the Board committees meetings during the year, it is confirmed that the performance during the year are set out in the table onpage 69. of each of the non-executive directors continues tobe effective and that they are each considered to The current membership of each Board committee demonstrate appropriate commitment to the role.
isas follows: Time commitment Directors are made aware at the time of appointment of the time commitment required to discharge their Board and committee responsibilities effectively.
Theterms and conditions of appointment for the executive directors and non-executive directors Richard Bailey willbe available at the 2015 AGM and can, at Kirsty Bashforth othertimes, be inspected at the Companys registered office.
Amanda Mellor Phil White All executive directors may serve on another board ofdirectors, provided that they can demonstrate Nick Winser thatany such appointment will not interfere with theirtime commitment to the Company and that Denotes the chair of the relevant committee.
theyobtain the agreement of the Chairman to the 68 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk Management and Audit Remuneration Nomination Safety, Health and Environment Board meetings Thematters requiring Board approval include, Details of the number of meetings of the Board and amongst others: its committees held during the year, and attendance of directors at those meetings, are set out below.
The Groups strategic plans: Meetings are normally held in Tempsford Hall, in Mergers, acquisitions and disposals of London or at one of the Group's regional locations or amaterialsize and nature: sites.
For example, the October 2014 Board meeting Material changes to the Groups structure was held in Dubai, enabling the Board also to andcapital: conduct visits to the Group's sites in the region.
The payment of dividends: and The approval of material Group policies.
Key activities The duties of, and those decisions which can The schedule of matters reserved for the onlybemade by, the Board are clearly defined in Boardareavailable on the Companys website theschedule of matters reserved for the Board.
Board and committee meeting attendance The number of Board and committee meetings attended by each director during the 2015 financial year is asfollows: Risk Safety, Management Healthand and Audit Remuneration Nomination Environment Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 10 5 3 3 5 Richard Bailey 10 5 3 3 1 Kirsty Bashforth 9 5 3 3 5 2 Steve Bowcott 6 3 Nigel Brook 4 4 Bev Dew 5 5 Amanda Mellor 10 5 3 3 4 Haydn Mursell 10 3 Nigel Turner 4 3 Claudio Veritiero 4 Phil White 10 3 3 Nick Winser 10 5 3 3 5 1 Kirsty Bashforth was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2014 and attended all Board and committee meetings since that date.
2 Steve Bowcott retired from the Board with effect from 27 April 2015 and attended all Board meetings up to and including the February 2015 meeting.
3 Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner and Claudio Veritiero were appointed to the Board with effect from 6 March 2015 and attended all Board meetings since that date.
4 Bev Dew was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2015 and attended all Board meetings since that date.
5 Amanda Mellor was unable to attend the March 2015 Safety, Health and Environment Committee meeting due to jury service.
Amanda was provided with the papers and gave her comments in advance of the meeting.
69 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Corporate governance Leadership and effectiveness continued The key issues considered at Board meetings during 2015 are summarised in the table below: 1,2 Issue Frequency How addressed Review of safety, financial 1 The Chief Executives report on safety, financial and operational performance, tenders and order book, investor relations and and operational material humanresources issues performance 1 The Finance Directors report on financial performance, working capital management, forecasts and share price performance 1 Reports from the executive directors with operational responsibilities as to their businesses safety, financial and  2 Review and approval of latest forecasts and budgets Leadership, governance 1 The Group Strategy and Corporate Development Director's and strategy monthly report on progress against Vision 2020 1 Review of directors share dealings 2 Review and approval of the Mouchel acquisition 2 Appointment of new directors and succession planning 2 Feedback from meetings of the Boards committees 2 Evaluation of the Board and its committees 2 Review and authorisation of any conflicts of interest Accountability, control 2 Review and approval of 2014 annual report and 2015 interim and risk management results.
Approval of final dividend for 2014 and interim dividend for2015 2 Review and approval of trading updates 2 Consideration of reports from the chair of the RMAC on internal control and risk management 2 Consideration of risk management procedures and key risks and uncertainties facing the Group Relations with 2 Consideration of matters relating to the 2014 AGM shareholders 2 Consideration of feedback from investors received following release of results or during routine meetings with Boardmembers 1 Standing agenda item for all Board meetings.
2 Item tabled on a periodic basis.
Information and support Induction and training The Board is provided with regular and timely Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on joining the Company and information on the financial and operational areadvised of their legal and other duties and performance of the businesses within the Group, obligations as a director of a listed company.
In together with reports on health and safety, addition, all new directors receive an induction on strategicand risk management matters and their appointment, covering such matters as the otherrelevant issues.
operational activities of the Group, the role of theBoard and the Companys corporate The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Board governanceprocedures.
and each of its committees.
Prior to each Board or committee meeting, the Company Secretary ensures Kirsty Bashforth joined the Board with effect from that the papers are made available to the directors 1September 2014.
Kirsty's induction included: insufficient time in advance of the meeting.
These papers are made available on a secure electronic portal, enabling information to be provided in a timely A briefing on the responsibilities of a director and secure manner.
ofalisted company: A briefing on Kiers culture, strategy, policies All directors have access to the advice and services andprocesses: of the Company Secretary and the directors are Briefings from senior management and members alsoable to seek independent professional advice, of the business: ifnecessary, at the Companys expense.
70 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Briefings from external advisers, including the Kiers induction auditor, the corporate brokers and the financial programmegave me a PR advisers: and Site visits to certain of the Group's projects.
fullunderstanding of the roleand responsibilities The four other directors who joined the Board during thecourse of the year have also received similar ofanon-executive director.
inductions, tailored to reflect the fact that they were The programme was appointed as executive directors and were either internal promotions or had previous executive comprehensive and experience of working within a contracting business.
tailoredto suit myneed Directors are encouraged to update their knowledge tounderstand the Groups and skills as they consider appropriate and training operations, business and is available upon request via the Company Secretary.
The Board is also briefed by the Companys external governance structure.
advisers, where appropriate, onchanges to legislation, Kirsty Bashforth regulation ormarket practice, as well as receiving briefings from representatives of the business units and the functions throughout the year.
Performance evaluation Inthe 2014 annual report, we identified the Boardspriorities for 2015, following the 2014 performance evaluation.
The Board has made goodprogress against each of these priorities, assummarised below: 2014 feedback Progress Focus on senior management Appointment of three internal promotions to the Board in succession planning March2015 Nomination Committee discussions relating to the potential future composition of the Board Set aside sufficient time for strategy Appointment of Claudio Veritiero to the Board, as Group Strategy andCorporate Development Director Updates on progress against Vision 2020 at each Board meeting Enhance the quality of information Significant progress on improving the quality of the provided to the Board Boardpapers, as confirmed by the 2015 evaluation Establishment of Board reference documents portal Review schedule of Board and Board During the course of the year, the schedule was reviewed and committee meetings to enable the discussed in detail and a number of site visits undertaken Board to develop its knowledge of bothinthe UK and overseas thebusiness Members of senior management were invited to attend BoardorBoard committee meetings to provide briefings onspecific matters Strengthen the resources available The company secretariat function was reviewed and tosupport the Board strengthened during the year The new Group HR Director was appointed to provide support tothe Remuneration and Nomination Committees A summary of the matters covered by the In keeping with the Code, the Board typically questionnaire is as follows: undertakes an external performance evaluation every three years, with internal evaluations in theintervening Risk years.
The most recent external evaluation was carried out in 2014: accordingly, the2015 evaluation Assessment of risk management approach was conducted using internal resources.
The 2015 evaluation was led by the Chairman, with Relationship management the assistance of the Company Secretary, and was Effectiveness of communications with principal conducted using a questionnaire covering the stakeholders operation and performance of the Board, its Appropriateness of reaction to events positive committees and individual directors.
Each director ornegative was asked to complete and return the questionnaire Assessment of quality of communication to the Company Secretary who, in turn, summarised channels between the Board and senior the feedback in a report for discussion by the Board.
71 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Corporate governance Leadership, effectiveness and accountability continued Board culture Areas of focus for 2016 Board culture, dynamics and conduct Continuing the focus on developing and Quality of debate and decision-making implementingstrategy Assessment of the opportunity and ability The need to appoint a non-executive director with tocontribute, individually and collectively.
contracting experience and recent experience as an executive director on a listed companys board Board composition of directors.
Justin Atkinson has, subsequently, Board size, composition, skills and experience been appointed to the Board with effect from Effectiveness of succession planning 1October 2015 Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee.
The continued development of the new directors as Board members, rather than as senior Chairman Chief Executive members of management below the Board Assessment of the Chairmans leadership style The continued focus on succession planning, the Effectiveness of the Chairman and Chief operation of the Nomination Committee and the Executives working relationship.
composition of the Board The need to continue to review the administration Administration of the Board and its committees toenable Quality of information and the timeliness effective decision-making.
ofpapers Quality of company secretariat support Induction on appointment and availability Accountability oftraining.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Board is committed to presenting a fair, balanced Meetings and understandable assessment of the Groups Schedule of Board and Board committee position and prospects in its communications with meetings shareholders.
The Board has delegated responsibility Appropriateness of the Board agenda and for ensuring that this annual report is fair, balanced timeallocation and understandable to the RMAC: details of the steps Constructive use of the AGM.
taken by the RMAC, and the business, to do so are set out in the Risk Management and Audit Committee So as to be able to conduct a meaningful evaluation Report on pages 76 to 81 inclusive.
Following of the performance of the Board in light of the completion of the review process, the Board is of the changes to the executive director composition which opinion that the annual report is a fair and balanced took place inJanuary and March 2015, it was decided representation ofthe Groups performance during the that the process would begin towards the end of the 2015 financial year and provides the necessary financial year.
At the date of this annual report, the information for shareholders to assess the Groups action plan arising from the feedback remains under performance overthe period, together with its discussion by the Board.
However, a summary of the business model andstrategy.
principal areas of feedback from the 2015 evaluation, on which the action plan will be based, is as follows: Risk management and internal controls The Board is responsible for the Groups systems Strengths ofrisk management and internal control.
It is also Improved focus on developing, discussing and responsible for determining the nature and extent implementing strategy, as demonstrated by the ofthe significant risks that it is prepared to accept appointment of the Group Strategy and Corporate inachieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Development Director to the Board principal risks and uncertainties associated with Strong chairmanship and robust performance of theGroup are summarised on pages 33 to 37 the Board with respect to the Mouchel acquisition inclusive.
Effective implementation of the succession plan through the appointment of three internal The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing candidates to the Board in March 2015 the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal Effective understanding of the views of major control, including those established to identify, shareholders.
assess, manage and monitor risk and to provide assurance, to the RMAC so that these matters can receive particular focus and attention but, in so doing, the RMAC acts on behalf of the Board and its activities remain the responsibility of the Board.
Further details of the Groups internal control and risk management systems, including those relating to the financial reporting process, are set out in the Risk Management and Audit Committee Report on pages 76 to 81 inclusive.
72 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
