s e c i v r e S n o i t c u r t s O n u r o s i C x s o t d r a e t w e Resources and relationships growing operations through a range of environmental Responsible business, and social measures, all integrated and aligned with the core non-financial strategic priorities, principal positive outcomes risks and opportunities and KPIs that underpin the For Kier to achieve and sustain the ambitious Groups stated financial targets.
These are now being growth plans set out in its Vision 2020 strategy, embedded within our individual business streams for it is essential for us to address and mitigate consistent, measurable delivery across the Group.
each identified non-financial risk which Wehave identified six immediate priority areas couldcompromise our financial targets.
Our full Corporate Responsibility Report for2015, Enabling sustainable business Through in-depth engagement we have ensured the http: www.
co. uk crr2015, expands issues being addressed by our corporate responsibility uponthis process.
programme are of material importance to our main stakeholders, particularly employees, clients and In the year Kier has made great strides in evolving its shareholders.
This will enable us to deliver resource Strategy for a Sustainable Business.
This addresses efficiencies and sustainable growth in our chosen and supports the changing dynamics of our broader, markets in a responsible and ethical manner.
Strategy for a sustainable business Focus area 2020 target 2014 15 progress Comments Safety, health and wellbeing Zero AIR AIR of 319 2014: 342.
Introduction This leading measure will help us identify the contributing factors Vision 2020 ofAllAccident Incidence Rate as and avoid the occurence of serious accidents, creating asafer aleadingmetric working culture Our five-year strategy for a sustainable business, Employee engagement and retention 75% employee engagement rate Pulse survey introduced to measure The more engaged our employees are, the better the customer launched in 2015, addresses many of the nonPeople and progress from 2014 experience which directly contributes to our future business success financial strategic priorities, risks and KPIs identified communities Diversity 70:30 male to female ratio for Baseline being established for Increasing the diversity of new hires will have the fastest impact in Vision 2020.
Not only does the new sustainability new recruits newrecruits on our diversity mix overall strategy and its focus areas, listed in the table here, Training, education and apprenticeships 5 training days per employee Baseline being established This is a measure of our commitment to invest in the learning help to deliver the strategic priority to Operate a and development of our people safe and sustainable business but it also supports Society and community 10% additional social value created Methodology being prepared to allow We generate financial benefits for society.
We aim to express this the other strategic priorities, particularly Provide consistent measurement of outcomes value more clearly sector-leading customer experience, Attract and Carbon 10% reduction from 2014 baseline 2% reduction in intensity ratio achieved Our focus on managing emissions is helping to control cost retain highly motivated, high-performing teams and emissions offuel Accelerate top quartile performance and efficiency.
Measure and Waste increased but volumes recovered Reducing waste helps to reduce environmental impacts and report progress and recycled increased control costs Environment Water 10% reduction from 2015 benchmark Monitoring agreement reached with Better monitoring will allow us to identify opportunities for more thirdparty efficient use Biodiversity 1 Biodiversity Interest Group challenge Monitoring system and procedures put We will continue to identify and realise opportunities to enhance per50m of revenue inplace.
22 challenge case studies biodiversity on our sites completed 1 per 133m revenue Environmental incidents 25% reduction in All Environment Monitoring system and procedures We will avoid major incidents by paying greater attention to near IncidenceRate from 2015 benchmark putinplace misses and minor incidents Customer experience 90% client and customer satisfaction 90% of clients satisfied with Kiers Delivering an excellent customer experience helps to secure performance.
Net Promoter Score future growth for Kier of 52indicating high levels of loyalty How we work Citizenship and community engagement 80% 40 50 average score in Considerate 77% 38.25 50 achieved We are planning to widen the CCS principles to our nonMarketplace Constructors Scheme CCS construction and international operations Enthusiastic Renew Renew Forward-thinking Sustainable supply chain Number of partners engaged in the Increased by 10% This helps us to work with a better qualified supply chain Collaborative Ensure we have Operate a investment in  School safe and technology and sustainable back-of ce 1 business Labour standards and human rights Meet core principles of UN Declaration Refreshed responsible procurement policy This helps Kier to meet its ethical responsibilities and comply with systems 6 of Human Rights agreed.
Initial standards to be launched the Modern Slavery Act.
The standards provide clear guidance for all Attract and Accelerate growth retain highly in2015 16 our procurement activities for social and environmental issues to be a top three motivated, player in our high-performing chosen markets Material standards 100% compliance with Kier material standards Measure and report compliance We will audit a sample of both our direct and sub-contract procurement Provide teams Achieve 5 2 sector-leading top quartile Stakeholder engagement Annual independent review of our strategy One additional stakeholder engagement Kier will also be completing more detailed shareholder customer performance experience and ef ciency by Business in the Community BiTC activity to understand their view of engagement 4 materialissues 3 Governance Reporting and assurance G4 integrated reporting to Global Reported to GRI G3 C standard Reporting to a common standard aids transparency and Governance Reporting Initiative GRI G4 standard understanding of Kiers strategic approach Governance Risk and opportunity Quantify risk across non-financial Identified critical non-financial issues Non-financial issues can still have a financial impact, both positive measures and negative.
The challenge is to identify the best ways to convert or express these impacts in our overall approach to risk management Business ethics Zero overdue whistle-blowing incidents Review of Group code of conduct Constant reviews of our business ethics policies ensure compliance with any new regulatory requirements and ensure our ethical approach to business and people Data related to non-financial performance does not include Reward scheme Reward scheme non-financial performance Proposals under review Closer alignment of rewards to non-financial performance better reflects the value of these issues to business sustainability Mouchel for the period being reported.
28 g t i a c h p W r i o r i l t a i e i s t n e d i s e R y t r e p o r P Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our core sustainability priorities for 2015 16 Safety, health and wellbeing Customer experience Emerging legislation and regulations A target accident incidence rate of Our stakeholders identified their overall The operating landscape constantly zeroisKiers top priority.
The Visible experience of dealing with Kier as being changes.
Recent examples of new Leadership programme launched in July the most important issue to them.
responsibilities include the Social 2015 will challenge our business leaders Delivering highlevels of satisfaction to all Valueand Modern Slavery Acts which to ensure they create an environment of our customers is fundamental to our wehave responded to in our Strategy for where everybody working on our behalf success as a business.
Our Listen, Act, aSustainable Business Responsible issafe.
Measure programme enables us to test, business, positive outcomes.
review and improve our performance to Sustainable supply chain Citizenship and community drive increased loyalty from our clients.
We will develop relationships that satisfy engagement our requirement for social and ethical Mouchel The reputations of Kier, our clients procurement and to meet or exceed our We are carefully integrating Mouchel andoursupply chain depend on how clients expectations.
Social and ethical intoKiers Strategy for a Sustainable wedeliver our services and engage with procurement lets us achieve our ambitions Business Responsible business, our stakeholders.
We are in the process to respect the human rights of everyone positive outcomes.
The integration will ofdeveloping a new code of conduct to connected to our business either directly have a minimal impact onour day-to-day help guide how we can make a positive or through thesupply chain.
operations, but ensure we are all able to contribution to the communities where deliver our common goals as part of the wework.
Focus area 2020 target 2014 15 progress Comments Safety, health and wellbeing Zero AIR AIR of 319 2014: 342.
Introduction This leading measure will help us identify the contributing factors Vision 2020 ofAllAccident Incidence Rate as and avoid the occurence of serious accidents, creating asafer aleadingmetric working culture Employee engagement and retention 75% employee engagement rate Pulse survey introduced to measure The more engaged our employees are, the better the customer People and progress from 2014 experience which directly contributes to our future business success communities Diversity 70:30 male to female ratio for Baseline being established for Increasing the diversity of new hires will have the fastest impact new recruits newrecruits on our diversity mix overall Training, education and apprenticeships 5 training days per employee Baseline being established This is a measure of our commitment to invest in the learning and development of our people Society and community 10% additional social value created Methodology being prepared to allow We generate financial benefits for society.
We aim to express this consistent measurement of outcomes value more clearly Carbon 10% reduction from 2014 baseline 2% reduction in intensity ratio achieved Our focus on managing emissions is helping to control cost emissions offuel Waste 30% reduction from 2014.
Net Promoter Score future growth for Kier of 52indicating high levels of loyalty Citizenship and community engagement 80% 40 50 average score in Considerate 77% 38.25 50 achieved We are planning to widen the CCS principles to our nonMarketplace Constructors Scheme CCS construction and international operations Sustainable supply chain Number of partners engaged in the Increased by 10% This helps us to work with a better qualified supply chain  School Labour standards and human rights Meet core principles of UN Declaration Refreshed responsible procurement policy This helps Kier to meet its ethical responsibilities and comply with of Human Rights agreed.
The standards provide clear guidance for all in2015 16 our procurement activities for social and environmental issues Material standards 100% compliance with Kier material standards Measure and report compliance We will audit a sample of both our direct and sub-contract procurement Stakeholder engagement Annual independent review of our strategy One additional stakeholder engagement Kier will also be completing more detailed shareholder by Business in the Community BiTC activity to understand their view of engagement materialissues Governance Reporting and assurance G4 integrated reporting to Global Reported to GRI G3 C standard Reporting to a common standard aids transparency and Governance Reporting Initiative GRI G4 standard understanding of Kiers strategic approach Governance Risk and opportunity Quantify risk across non-financial Identified critical non-financial issues Non-financial issues can still have a financial impact, both positive measures and negative.
29 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Resources and relationships continued 1 Our achievements in 2014 15 Environment Data from SMARTWASTE for all businesses Breakdown of carbon emissions data CDE waste Relative emissions intensity ratio declined by 2% to 50.4tonnes Year Re-used Recycled Landfilled CO e 1m revenue.
This can in part be attributed to the 2 consolidation of our permanent estate and the move to more 2013 39% 31% 29% efficient offices.
Our absolute emissions increased due to the 2014 40% 34% 26% first full-year inclusion of May Gurney which we acquired in 2015 41% 38% 21% 2013.
Our continued focus on the efficient use of energy in our business continues to see us move towards our target of a 10% This data is collated from a sample representing 39% of Kier reduction in emissions per revenue.
Our ambition is to be Group by revenue.
We estimate this accounts for more than able to assess and influence supply chain emissions to achieve 80% of all waste produced.
Emission type CO e tonnes CO e tonnes Social 2 2 2013 2014 Diversity, equality and human rights Kiers employment policies follow best practice and are created Scope 1: Operation of facilities 0 0 around equal opportunities for all employees irrespective of sex or Scope 1: Combustion 113,399 129,756 14% sexual orientation, ethnicity, age, disability or marital status.
Our Scope 2: Purchased energy 12,192 15,634 28% constant is to recognise everyone as an individual, and that they have different needs but that they also bring different skills to our Total emissions 125,591 145,390 16% Group.
We want employees to know they are working where they willbe treated with dignity and respect and, as a consequence, feelenabled to make a contribution to Kiers success.
Our Greenhouse gas emissions variousemployment, ethics and procurement policies are written intensity ratio 2013 2014 toprotect the human rights of our employees and parties engaged 51.5t m 50.4t m -2% with ourbusiness.
There have been no related issues during the financial year.
Turnover m 2,439 2,885 Diversity of employees Supporting context: Male Female We have reported on emissions sources as required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors All employees 12,533 80% 3,180 20% Report Regulations 2013.
At senior manager grade 1,206 93% 84 7% We have excluded our Scope 1 fugitive emissions and we do not account for any share of any joint venture or joint agreements At director grade 5 71% 2 29% in our carbon footprints unless we are in majority control.
Our dataset covers 92% of the total revenue of Kier.
2 Ethnicity Thisisthe figure that our emissions are based on.
White 54%, Black and minority ethnic groups 3% The period of our report is 1 January 2014 to 31 December Not stated 43% 2014 to mirror our reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Our methodology has been based on the principles of the Community engagement Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are those published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in 2014.
115,036 2.2m Employee hours Equivalent value Breakdown of business construction, demolition 2014: 161,799 ofemployee hours and excavation waste 2014: 2.9m The amount of construction, demolition and excavation CDE waste Kier Construction sent to landfill in 2014 increased from Kier calculates the value of time given by its employees to 8.2 tonnes 100,000 revenue to 9.4 tonnes 100,000 revenue.
volunteering by using a nominal value for each hour of 31.
Kier recognises that a percentage of staff time is given to training Also, over the same period the amount of waste produced supervising apprentices and uses a nominal value for each hour increased from 37.2 tonnes 100,000 revenue to given to providing this support of 18.
The hourly rates have 44.5tonnes 100,000 revenue.
been revised in line with the growth of the business which has The percentage of CDE waste diverted from landfill increased seen a larger blue-collar workforce, which has resulted in the from 78% to 79%.
value of an hours volunteering being reduced from 44 to 31 and the value of an hour given to support apprentices Construction division CDE waste data increasing from 16 to 18.
Tonnes of Tonnes of % of waste Considerate Constructors Scheme waste waste to diverted Kier is an associate member of the Considerate Constructors generated landfill from landfill Scheme.
We use this independent scheme to assess the Year per 100k per 100k per 100k performance of our operational sites in the UK.
We estimate this accounts for more 2020 target 40 50 80% than 80% of all waste produced.
1 Data related to non-financial performance does not include Mouchel for the period being reported.
2 Data is based on a spot audit of UK employees excluding overseas and Mouchel employees.
30 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Stakeholder engagement 2015 We have been developing our approach The final results shown in the figure The most important issue for to the non-financial elements of our below illustrate how our stakeholders stakeholders is Customer experience.
Strategy for a Sustainable Business ranked issues from low to high Delivering and exceeding the expected Responsible business, positive importance, though all are still relevant outcomes of clients will always be a key outcomes RBPO.
Through our to how we operate our business, directly focus for Kier and one of our key engagement exercises with business contributing to our profitability and non-financial KPIs.
leaders, employees, clients, shareholders overall value proposition.
and non-governmental organisations wesought to understand that these issues in RBPO were of most material importance in our relationship with them.
The following headings are from Kiers strategy for a sustainable business, listed in order of material importance to our stakeholders: 1 Customer experience 11 Governance risk and opportunity Key: 2 12 Citizenship and community engagement Society and community People and communities 3 Sustainable supply chain 13 Employee engagement and retention Environment 14 Safety, health and wellbeing Stakeholder engagement Marketplace 5 Labour standards and human rights 15 Reward scheme Governance 6 16 Carbon Water 7 Waste 17 Diversity 8 18 Material standards Governance reporting and assurance 9 Business ethics 19 Environmental incidents 10 Training, education and appenticeships Biodiversity Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 to, and performance in, ensuring Kier is In September 2015, we will undertake a The full Kier Group CR Report 2015, asustainable business.
Italso addresses shareholder engagement exercise including Enabling sustainable business, can those risks that could compromise many of our leading investors, to share with bedownloaded from our website at thiscommitment.
them our draft CR Report 2015 and to seek http: www.
This their feedback on what elements of our report, which supports and expands We have addressed the 20 KPIs identified reporting are of most material importance to uponthe matters reported in this section, has hadexternal assurance under the four broad headings of people them in making their investment decisions.
byPwCand hasbeenself-assessed to and communities, environment, marketplace Our website will contain the outputs and the comply withapplication level C of the GRI and governance.
This will help us to achieve outcomes ofthis exercise and will be found at G3  Guidelines.
our financial ambitions and become more http: www.
efficient, as well as being socially and It is important to our stakeholders, environmentally responsible.
This will also especially investors seeking socially help all our stakeholders to better consider responsible businesses, that we can and evaluate the full and tangible value of demonstrate a genuine commitment to our non-financial strategic priorities, KPIs undertake our work in anenvironmentally, and risk mitigation in supporting our socially and ethically responsible way.
CR Report explains indetail our approach 31 4 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
