Governance Activities during the year Nomination Committee Report The Committee is responsible for leading the process by which Daniel Bernard directors are appointed to the Board and there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of new Board directors.
Candidates are identified using objective criteria and selected with due regard to the benefits of a diverse Board.
At its meetings during the year, the Committee considered executive and non-executive succession planning, skill requirements, and the Board effectiveness review.
During the year, the Committee considered the departure of The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the Philippe Tible and recommended he step down from the Board composition of the Board and plan for its refreshment as and from his membership of the Group Executive Committee applicable with regard to composition, balance and structure.
at the end of July, but remain with the business until the end The Committee is also asked to lead, on behalf of the Board, of the 2014 15 financial year.
the selection process for new Board appointments and to make recommendations in respect of such appointments while The Committee also considered and recommended to the Board maintaining an appropriate balance of diversity of skills.
the appointment of Vronique Laury as Chief Executive Officer, In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nomination as successor to Sir Ian Cheshire.
Vronique was selected Committee is required to: following consideration of a number of internal and external candidates for the role.
A search for suitable candidates for the x review the structure, size and composition of the Board role was commissioned using a reputable independent search and make recommendations to the Board, as appropriate: consultancy.
Following an extensive review of candidates, x identify the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity Vronique was selected as the preferred candidate and her appointment was recommended by the Committee.
and experience on the Board and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies: Following the appointment of Vronique, and a review of the Board and its committees, the Committee is of the firm belief x review the time commitment required from the that the revised composition of the Board represents a strong, non-executive directors: well balanced and diverse Board, with membership being made x consider succession planning, taking into account the up of specialists in the fields of retail, technology, finance and challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the human resources, and with the necessary experience and skills future skills and expertise needed on the Board: and to meet the Groups current and future requirements.
The Committee will continue to take all appropriate action in order x review the leadership needs of the organisation, both to ensure that the right talent to manage the business will be in executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the place in the future.
continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
As part of its ongoing review of talent pipelines across the Group, in October 2014, the Committee considered a talent report The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the presented by the Group HR Director, which highlighted year and were amended in line with best practice and are succession considerations for the Board in support of its strategy.
available on the Companys website www.
In the coming year, the Committee will continue to review Committee composition and assess the requirements of the Board and its committees The Committee comprises the Chairman and all the nonin terms of their composition and will undertake appropriate executive directors and meets periodically as required.
External succession planning activity to ensure the correct balance of advisers may be invited to attend meetings when particular skills, expertise and experience.
It will also take all appropriate issues are to be considered.
action in order to ensure that the right talent to manage the Meeting attendance business will be in place in the future.
The Committee meets as necessary to fulfil its responsibilities I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer and meet its objectives.
In the year under review, the Committee any questions about the work of the Committee.
met on seven occasions and attendance at those meetings is recorded below.
From Attendance Daniel Bernard Chairman of the Nomination Committee Daniel Bernard Chairman 24 05 2006 7 7 30 March 2015 Andrew Bonfield 11 02 2010 6 7 Pascal Cagni 17 11 2010 6 7 Clare Chapman 02 12 2010 7 7 Anders Dahlvig 19 12 2009 6 7 Janis Kong 08 12 2006 7 7 Mark Seligman 01 01 2012 7 7 Directors did not attend those parts of the meeting where their own reappointment was considered.
