Governance Corporate governance This report aims to provide shareholders with an understanding of the arrangements we undertake in order to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance across Kingfisher, arrangements which we consider to be essential for the long-term success of the Company.
For the online report homepage www.
com AR14-15 The Board has continued to review its governance framework Dear Shareholder and has adjusted, where necessary, the roles, structure and accountabilities of its mechanisms of governance.
During the I am pleased to present Kingfishers Corporate Governance year, the governance structure below the Board and primary report for the year ended 31 January 2015. committee level was again reviewed to ensure the correct and During the year, the Board of Kingfisher plc has continued to accurate flow of information and responsibility.
apply solid governance practices, amending where necessary This review included a full review of the terms of reference of the those robust, efficient and effective frameworks and systems developed over a number of years, by which the whole Group Executive Committee, the Kingfisher Capital Expenditure Committee and the Financial Initiatives, Tax and Treasury business is governed and reviewed.
This report aims to provide shareholders with an understanding of the arrangements we Committee, and these were amended where necessary to reflect the operations of those committees and the authorities delegated undertake in order to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance across Kingfisher, arrangements which we consider to them.
As part of the review, in order to make the governance structure below primary committee level more relevant and agile, to be essential for the long-term success of the Company.
the structure of meetings of the Group Executive Committee As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, Kingfisher was changed to allow for greater focus on strategic review and is required to review its operations annually by reference to the direction and a more streamlined overview of trading and UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and a statement operational matters.
During the year, a Group Sustainability of compliance with the Code is set out on page 34.
Committee was established, with the remit to monitor progress against Net Positive targets and agree and drive the direction It is the role of the Board to provide leadership to the Group.
As of the Groups approach to sustainability.
Chairman of the Board, I lead the Board in reviewing long-term strategy, monitoring, supporting and, where required, challenging The revised Group governance structure, together with an overview the executive team, whose job it is to manage the Company of each of these committees, is set out on pages 39 to 40. successfully day to day, driving performance of the business I believe that the changes the Company has made during the year and creating value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
have further enhanced its governance framework and improved For the Board to be effective in discharging its responsibilities, the operation of the Board and its committees.
The following it must maintain a level of independence and objectivity, the pages of this report explain, in greater detail, the structure and correct balance of experience and skills and be comprised of processes in place to ensure good governance and set out the sufficient knowledge of the operations of the business.
I believe operations of the Boards primary committees.
I am pleased to that the Kingfisher Board, with its vast experience and diversity endorse this report, which I believe provides an insight into how, of expertise, assists the Company in delivering its strategy and through its actions, the Board and its committees have fulfilled maximising shareholders long-term interests.
their governance responsibilities and worked to ensure that strong The leadership of the Board is particularly important during times governance practices remain embedded across the Group.
In July, Philippe Tible left the business and on 8 December 2014, Sir Ian Cheshire stepped down as Group Chief Executive and resigned as a director of the Board on 31 January Daniel Bernard 2015.
The Board oversaw a robust succession process for Sir Ian, Chairman more details of which can be found on page 45 in the report of 30 March 2015 the Nomination Committee, and the Board unanimously agreed that Vronique Laury be appointed his successor as Chief Executive Officer.
Vronique assumed the role on 8 December 2014.
I would like to personally thank Ian for all his hard work in leading the transformation of the Company during his seven years as Group Chief Executive.
com 33 Corporate governance continued During the year, as part of its annual review process, the Compliance with the UK Corporate matters reserved for the Board were reviewed and where Governance Code necessary amended to reflect best practice.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes the consideration Kingfisher is subject to and has reviewed its operations and and approval of: governance framework to ensure that it reflects the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the x the Groups overall strategy, medium-term plans and Financial Reporting Council the FRC and available on their annual budgets: website, www.
In accordance with the Listing x financial statements and Group dividend policy, including Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Board confirms that, recommendation of the final dividend: throughout the year ended 31 January 2015, and as at the date of this report, the Company has complied with the x major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure: provisions set out in the September 2012 edition of the x major changes to the capital structure including tax and Code, save for as set out below.
treasury management: Provision D. 1.1 Provides that grants under long-term incentive x major changes to accounting policies or practices: schemes should normally be phased rather than awarded in one large block.
x the Groups corporate governance and compliance arrangements: As reported in our 2011 12 annual report, the Company set stretching long-term targets for management as part x the system of internal control and risk management policy: of the Creating the Leader phase of Kingfishers strategy.
x the Groups risk appetite statements: and The Remuneration Committee approved awards under the Performance Share Plan the Plan of up to 500% x review of management development strategy.
Composition of the Board The award was higher than the normal award of 200% but During the year, the Board was made up of the non-executive in making it the Committee took into account the fact that Chairman, four executive directors and six non-executive no further awards would be made under the Plan until the directors.
The number of executive directors reduced to three financial year 2014 15, and felt that it created a better focus following the departure of Philippe Tible at the end of July.
The on a single performance period aligned to the next phase of current balance of the Boards skills, experience and knowledge, the Groups strategy, rather than the more commonly used together with regular briefings by executives below Board level, overlapping performance periods.
ensures that views, perceptions and discussions are not dominated by any one specific view.
The structure, size and Leadership composition of the Board is continually reviewed to ensure it remains suitable for the needs of the business.
The role of the Board The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long-term There is an established, formal, rigorous and transparent success of the Company and deliver sustainable shareholder procedure for the selection and appointment of new directors value.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management, to the Board, and this is described in the Nomination Committee direction and performance of the Group, and leads and controls Report on page 45.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held the Groups business.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring on 9 June 2015, shareholders will be asked, in accordance appropriate resources are in place to achieve its strategy and with Principle B.
7.1 of the Code, to re-appoint the directors.
Through authorities delegated Role of the non-executive directors to its committees, the Board directs and reviews the Groups Non-executive directors provide a strong, independent and operations within an agreed framework of controls, allowing risk external insight to the Board and its committees, and have to be assessed and managed within agreed parameters.
The a wealth of experience and business knowledge from other Board is collectively accountable to the Companys shareholders sectors and industries.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the proper conduct and success of the business.
of each of the non-executive directors are available for inspection The Boards powers are set out in the Companys Articles of at the Companys registered office and will also be available for Association, which are available to view on its website, and inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
may be amended by a special resolution of its members.
The At its meeting in January 2015, the Board considered the Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles, independence of each of the non-executive directors other than in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and other the Chairman, who was deemed independent by the Board at applicable legislation.
the date of his appointment against the criteria specified in the The Board has established a formal schedule of matters reserved Code, and concluded that each remained fully independent of for its approval, and has delegated other specific responsibilities management and free from any relationship that could interfere to its principal committees: the Audit, Remuneration and with the exercise of their independent judgement.
These are clearly defined within the written terms of reference of the respective committees, which are available on the Companys website.
Information on the responsibilities and work of each of the Boards committees is set out on pages 41 to 66.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 34 Governance Role of the Senior Independent Director Diversity on the Board Since his appointment in January 2012, Mark Seligman has In September 2011, the Board announced its approach to acted as Senior Independent Director SID, supporting the diversity.
The statement, which is available on the Companys Chairman, and is available for approach or representation from website, confirmed that the Board is committed to ensuring significant shareholders who feel they are unable to raise issues directors of the Company possess and demonstrate a broad with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and Officer.
In accordance with the FRC guidelines, the role of diversity, including gender diversity.
The Board remains the SID is formally set out in writing, and available on the committed to that statement.
In order to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, experience Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and knowledge on the Board, the Nomination Committee The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief considers each prospective candidate on their individual merits, Executive Officer are separate and clearly defined.
As part of regardless of gender, age, race, nationality, religion or disability, the annual review process, the written roles of the Chairman in the belief that balanced and diverse Boards are effective.
and Chief Executive Officer were reviewed to ensure they The Company encourages diversity and an inclusive culture remained compliant with, and took account of, best practice as it believes that this benefits our business by providing access developments, and were in line with FRC guidance.
The written to a wide range of skills, experience and perspectives and allows roles for both are available to view on the Companys website.
us to reflect our diverse customer base.
The Board is committed to maximising the benefits of such a diverse workforce to deliver In accordance with best practice, the Chairman is responsible real sustainable benefits for the Group and its shareholders.
for the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Achieving balanced representation of men and women at Board, setting the tone and style of Board discussions, and all levels throughout the Group is a priority and the charts creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director demonstrating the gender split at Board level, senior effectiveness.
He is also responsible for ensuring that all management level, and for the workforce as a whole, members of the Board develop an understanding of the views can be found in the Financial Review on page 25. of major shareholders, that there is an open dialogue with shareholders and that the chairmen of the Boards principal committees are available to answer shareholder questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for executive management of the Groups business, consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
She leads the Senior Leadership team in effecting decisions of the Board and its committees, and is responsible for the maintenance and protection of the reputation of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs of the Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Company Secretary The General Counsel & Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its committees and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate responsibility for the management of the committees to other suitably qualified staff.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that good quality information flows from executive management to the Board and its committees and that correct Board procedures are followed.
She advises the Board on legal, corporate governance matters and facilitates the inductions of new directors and assists in providing professional development as required.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for governance compliance and legal advice.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved to the Board.
com 35 Corporate governance continued Activities during the year Effectiveness During the year, as part of its regular business, the Board: Board meetings x received regular strategic presentations from management The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout and held deep dive discussions with management of the the year and unscheduled supplementary meetings as Groups operating companies, information technology and and when necessary.
These meetings are structured to allow open Group sourcing management: discussion.
At each meeting the Board receives certain regular reports, which include an update from the Chief Executive Officer, x considered regular updates on health and safety progress: current trading finance including liquidity reports from the Chief x reviewed the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policies Financial Officer, and capital expenditure approvals and reports and procedures to ensure continued compliance with from the General Counsel & Company Secretary including the UK Bribery Act: governance, legal, insurance and risk updates.
Regular peoplerelated updates from the Group Human Resources Director x reviewed the Groups risk profile and reviewed the Group and Net Positive progress updates and public affairs updates risk appetite statement: from the Group Sustainability Director are also provided to the x received a progress update on the Groups Net Board at its meetings throughout the year.
Positive strategy: All directors participate in discussing strategy, trading and x considered the Groups capital structure and cash position: financial performance, and risk management of the Group.
Comprehensive briefing papers are circulated to all directors x considered post-investment reviews of capital expenditure approximately one week before each meeting in digital format.
projects over three years: and Should a director be unable to attend a particular meeting, they x reviewed and approved the Groups major IT are provided with all relevant briefing papers and are given the programme and processes.
opportunity to discuss any issues with the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer and, where possible, participate by telephone In addition to its regular business, the Board also: for critical discussions and approvals on specific matters.
x approved succession plans for the role of Chief Executive The Board generally meets at the Groups head office in London Officer, and for the departure of Philippe Tible as a director but holds at least one meeting each year overseas.
During the of the Board: year under review, the Board held a meeting in Lille, France x considered and approved the arrangements for the disposal where it reviewed the French Brico Dpt and Castorama brands of a majority stake in its business in China: and considered the operations of the Brico Dpt businesses in Portugal, Romania and Spain.
The Board also visited a number x reviewed and proposed to shareholders for approval the rules of stores in the area.
It is the Boards intention to hold one off-site of the Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan: and meeting outside the UK, in a country in which the Group x considered and approved the acquisition of the Mr Bricolage operates in the coming year, to receive presentations from the business in France, subject to competition clearance being senior management of the operating company and experience achieved, at an agreed cost.
the challenges facing that business.
The Chairman and the nonexecutive directors meet regularly without executive directors being present.
The Chairman maintains regular contact with the SID.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 36 Governance Board evaluation The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board In accordance with provision B.
6 of the Code, the Board is at its meeting in January 2015.
No significant issues were required to conduct a review of its performance each year.
highlighted and the review indicated that the Board continued During the year under review, to ensure that they continue to to work efficiently and effectively, and that the contribution and be effective and each director remained committed to their role commitment of each director, and their interaction with each and had sufficient time to manage their commitments, the other, remained good, and the challenge offered by the nonBoard and its committees evaluated their effectiveness using executive directors was robust and appropriate.
As a result of an externally facilitated questionnaire and a series of one-to-one the evaluation, the Board agreed to undertake the following interviews between each director and the Chairman.
The activities during the 2015 16 financial year: questionnaire was developed by reference to the topics x support the new Chief Executive Officer with her review discussed and recommendations made during the previous of the organisation, strategy phasing, articulating the years evaluation, and drafted following discussions between customer proposition and omnichannel development: the Chairman, the Company Secretary and the external facilitator, Linstock.
Responses to the questionnaire were x conduct a third-party review of Board papers to increase clarity collated and the output was used by the Chairman in his and brevity, to enhance Board discussion: individual meetings with directors as part of the evaluation x conduct in-depth reviews of two of the Groups new markets, process.
The evaluation was conducted in December 2014 in Romania and Germany: and the areas considered during the evaluation were: x review the forward business agenda to ensure that there x Board composition and expertise: is sufficient time to focus on key Group programmes and x time management oversight: initiatives such as the development of a more common and unique offer and the omnichannel proposition: x Board support: x maintain its oversight of the Groups performance relative x strategic oversight: to its competitors and customer trends: and x risk management and internal control: x increase its exposure to the Groups senior management x succession planning and human resource management: and below the Board.
As part of the evaluation process, the Chief Executive Officer carried out a performance review of the executive directors.
The non-executive directors, led by the SID, conducted a performance review of the Chairman in respect of the financial year.
The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each of the directors continues to be effective and that shareholders should be supportive of their re-appointment to the Board.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead, and the Chairman will use the output of the most recent Board evaluation in his individual meetings with the directors during the year.
com 37 Corporate governance continued Board and Committee meeting attendance The following table shows the number of years each director has served on the Board as at the financial year end, and their attendance at the scheduled Board and committee meetings: Tenure Audit Remuneration Nomination in years Board Committee Committee Committee Daniel Bernard 8 10 10 4 4 7 7 Andrew Bonfield 4 10 10 4 4 4 4 6 7 Pascal Cagni 4 9 10 6 7 Clare Chapman 4 9 10 4 4 7 7 Sir Ian Cheshire 14 9 9 Anders Dahlvig 5 10 10 4 4 6 7 Janis Kong 8 10 10 4 4 3 4 7 7 1 Vronique Laury 1 1 1 Kevin OByrne 6 10 10 2 Mark Seligman 3 10 10 4 4 7 7 3 Philippe Tible 2 4 4 Karen Witts 2 10 10 1.
Vronique Laury joined the Board on 8 December 2014.
Mark Seligman was not present during the part of the meeting where his tenure was considered.
Philippe Tible SFTJHOFE BT B EJSFDUPS on 31 July 2014.
Induction, information and professional development of these shareholders and also enables the Board to judge All new directors appointed to the Board receive an induction whether investors have a sufficient understanding of the Groups pack as part of their comprehensive induction programme objectives.
In addition to planned development and briefings, tailored to their experience, background and particular areas each director is expected to take responsibility for identifying of focus.
The induction programme is designed to develop their own individual needs and to take necessary steps to ensure directors knowledge and understanding of the Groups that they are adequately informed about the Group and their operations and culture.
The Board is confident that all its members have the requisite knowledge, ability and experience The induction programme includes: to perform the functions required of the directors of a listed x individual one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, the company.
There is also an agreed procedure whereby directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other directors: expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Subsequent training in specific aspects of the Groups x site visits to the Groups stores and those of its competitors: businesses is provided to directors, when requested, or regularly x meetings with management of the Groups operating as part of site visits.
Directors are briefed on issues at Board and companies and other senior management: and committee meetings and have full and timely access to relevant information ahead of each meeting.
x if required, external training courses at the Groups expense.
Conflicts of interest In accordance with best practice, the Chairman considers and Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid addresses the development needs of the Board as a whole, if a situation where he or she may have a direct or indirect interest any, and ensures that each director updates their individual that conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The Company skills, knowledge and expertise.
has robust procedures in place to identify, authorise and manage As part of her induction as new Chief Executive Officer, such conflicts of interest, and these procedures have operated Vronique Laury conducted visits to most of the Groups effectively during the year.
operating companies to meet with management and understand A register of directors situational and transactional conflicts the particular nature of the businesses.
The Company Secretary is maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the arranged for the Groups corporate lawyers to provide a training Board on a regular basis and directors have a continuing duty to session on her duties and responsibilities as a director of a UK update the Board with any changes to their conflicts of interest.
Amongst other topics, the training covered Following review, the Board confirmed that there were no Listing Rules compliance and the control and release of inside situations of which they were aware which would, or potentially information, and provided case studies and practical situations could, give rise to conflicts with the interests of the Company, for consideration.
Ms Laury also attended shareholder roadshows other than those that might arise from directors other in London and the United States and met with the Companys appointments, which are set out in the directors biographies major institutional investors.
The Board also receives regular reports and feedback from discussions with the Companys institutional shareholders and is informed of any issues or concerns raised by them.
This process allows directors to develop necessary understanding of the views Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 38 Governance Relations with shareholders Annual General Meeting The Company is committed to communicating its strategy The principal means of communication with private investors is and activities clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, by electronic communications and through the Annual General maintains an active dialogue with investors through a planned Meeting, which is attended by all the Companys directors, and programme of investor relations activities.
The investor relations allows all shareholders present the opportunity to question the programme includes: Chairman and the directors, as well as the chairmen of the Boards committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, x formal presentations of preliminary and interim results: shareholders have the opportunity to meet informally with directors.
At the Annual General Meeting in June 2015, the x Q1, Q2 pre-close and Q3 trading statements Chairman intends to use his discretion to call for a poll on all resolutions.
The results of the poll in relation to all resolutions x regular meetings between institutional investors and senior will be disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting, management to ensure that the investor community receives published on the Companys website and announced to the a balanced and complete view of the Groups performance London Stock Exchange shortly after the conclusion of the and the issues faced by the Group: Annual General Meeting.
x hosting investors and analysts sessions at which Committees senior managers from relevant operating companies The Board has delegated authority to its principal committees to deliver presentations which provide an overview of their carry out certain tasks as defined in each committees respective individual businesses: terms of reference.
The written terms of reference in respect of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are x responding to enquiries from shareholders through the available on the Companys website.
The Board is satisfied that Companys investor relations team: the terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the x regular meetings between institutional investors and requirements of the Code.
The terms of reference of the principal analysts and the Chief Executive Officer and Chief committees are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Financial Officer to discuss business performance: and The minutes of committee meetings are made available to all x a comprehensive investor relations section on the directors on a timely basis.
In addition, at each Board meeting, Companys website.
the chairmen of the principal committees provide the Board with a brief synopsis of the work carried out by their committee, if any, The Chairman, the SID and the chairmen of the Boards between Board meetings.
committees are available to meet major investors on request.
The SID has a specific responsibility to be available to In addition to the principal committees, the Board is shareholders who have concerns, and for whom contact supported by the work of the Group Executive Committee with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial and its subcommittees.
Together, these committees form a Officer has either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom fundamental element of the Companys corporate governance such contact is inappropriate.
The Groups governance structure and a brief explanation of the work of the Group Executive Committee and the other management committees is set out below: Organisation and Governance Structure Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Financial Initiatives, Kingsher Capital Disclosure Group One Team Sustainability Tax & Treasury Expenditure Committee Safety Committee Board Committee Committee Committee www.
com 39 Corporate governance continued Group Executive Committee The Committee will review and make recommendations to the The responsibilities, structure and composition of the Group Board regarding all projects exceeding its agreed approval Executive Committee were reviewed during the year.
The Committee comprises the Chief Committee consists of the Leadership Team and comprises Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Operations the executive directors, the Operations Director, Omnichannel Director, Omnichannel and Chief Digital and IT Officer, the and Chief Digital and IT Officer, the Operations Director, Big Box Group Finance and Planning Director, the Company Secretary and the Operations Director, Medium Box.
The Committee meets and the Group Property Investment Director.
formally ten times a year under the chairmanship of the Chief Financial Initiatives, Tax and Treasury Committee Executive Officer.
The primary purpose of the Committee is to monitor compliance The Committees primary focus is the strategic direction of the with policies and control issues relating to Group Finance, and Group.
In addition, the Committee monitors top talent within the to review key proposals from Group Finance, Treasury, Tax business and reviews key items requiring formal Board approval, and Secretariat functions, and, where appropriate, recommend including dividend planning, key projects and strategic capital certain initiatives for approval of the Board.
comprises the Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance and Planning Director, Group Treasurer, Group Tax Director, In accordance with its formal terms of reference, the Group Head of Group Pensions and Company Secretary.
Executive Committee is also responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on: Disclosure Committee The Committees primary purpose is to ensure that information to x strategic and business plans of individual businesses: be disclosed by the Company in its reports is properly identified, x the Groups capital structure and funding: recorded, processed, summarised and reported to senior management of the Company and to the Audit Committee.
The x strategic capital expenditure proposals, major acquisitions Committee assists in ensuring that disclosures fairly represent or disposals of businesses: the financial position of the Company and the Group and, in the case of the Annual Report and Accounts, ensure that when x the Groups key risks and risk appetite: taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable x management development and senior executive succession and provide shareholders with the information needed to assess plans: and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance and x the Groups Net Positive programme.
Planning Director, Company Secretary, Group Chief Accountant During the year, the Committee met ten times and, in addition and the Group Communications Director.
to its standing agenda, reviewed: Group Health and Safety Committee x the Groups branding strategies and Group procurement The Committees primary purpose is to review the management and sourcing arrangements: of health and safety risks across the Group and monitor performance on, and compliance with, Group policies, x operating budgets and monthly trading performance: procedures and practices in relation to all aspects of health x a potential franchise model for its Brico Dpt business: and safety, with the aim of providing safe environments for employees, customers, suppliers and contractors and driving x the embedding of appropriate health and safety behaviours continuous improvements.
The Committee comprises the Group across the Group: Company Secretary, the Director of Risk & Compliance, a regional x the Groups IT strategy, planning and execution: representative of each of Kingfishers Divisions and the Group Property Services Director.
The Chief Financial Officer has Board x the strategy for embedding sustainability into Group responsibility for health and safety and attends meetings of the behaviours: and Committee on a regular basis and delegates day to day oversight x HR proposals for management development and to the Company Secretary as Chairman of the Committee.
Group Sustainability Committee One Team Board The Committee was established in 2014 and met twice in the The One Team Board consists of the Group Executive year under review.
Its primary purpose is to provide direction Committee, the CEOs of each of the Groups operating on the development and integration of sustainability throughout companies and other senior Group employees who report the Group and oversee its implementation.
The Committee is directly to members of the Group Executive Committee.
The chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and members are drawn primary purpose of the Board, which meets at least quarterly, from the Group Executive Committee and senior leadership from is the implementation of Group Strategy and the day to day the Groups operating companies.
The Committee is responsible management of the Groups businesses.
At its meetings, the for agreeing the direction of Kingfishers sustainability approach One Team Board considers performance against strategy and and for monitoring progress against the Companys Net Positive budget and reviews Group-wide people-related activities.
On behalf of the Group Executive Committee, the Committee assures consistency by approving policy standards Capital Expenditure Committee and processes in relation to sustainability for each operating The Capital Expenditure Committee is responsible for reviewing company.
It also shares best practices across the Group and and approving all capital expenditure projects relating to property supports the development of capacity and capability at all levels and non-property proposals in excess of an agreed threshold of throughout the business to deliver Net Positive.
Details of each of the Boards principal committees, including membership, are set out in the following reports.
