Governance Committee composition Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors: Andrew Boneld x Andrew Bonfield Chairman x Anders Dahlvig x Janis Kong x Mark Seligman All Committee members are considered independent in accordance with provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Dear Shareholder Governance Code.
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2014 15.
Audit Committee meeting attendance During the year under review, the Committee carried out its From Attendance duties in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Andrew Bonfield Chairman 11 02 2010 4 4 Code and reviewed its operations in relation to the Code.
Anders Dahlvig 16 12 2009 4 4 The Committee is appointed by the Board from amongst its Janis Kong 11 02 2011 4 4 non-executive directors, and its principal duties are to provide effective oversight and governance of the internal control and Mark Seligman 01 01 2012 4 4 risk management processes of the Company, to review the Duties financial statements and related accounting policies, review In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee the effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions is required, amongst other things, to: and provide updates and recommendations to the Board.
x monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: In addition to the activities outlined above, during the year, the Committee continued the analysis of the Companys risks and x review, understand and evaluate the Groups internal financial associated mitigating controls and focused on compliance, risk, and other internal controls and their associated systems: financial governance and internal audit functions.
It also x monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal considered the appropriateness of significant judgements audit function on an annual basis: made in connection with the financial statements, in particular in relation to rebates, further details of which are contained x oversee the relationship with the external auditor, later in this report.
making recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: The Committee maintained its good working relationship with the Group Finance Director, Group Audit and Risk Management x oversee the process for determining whether the Annual Director, the Group Finance and Planning Director, the Company Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced and Secretary and the Groups external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The understandable assessment of the Companys performance, Committee maintained, reviewed and where necessary amended its business model and strategy: standing agenda, which is linked to the Groups financial calendars.
x agree the scope of both the external and internal auditors In order to improve the understanding of their operations, during annual audit programme and review the output: and the year the Committee received in-depth presentations from x monitor and review the external auditors independence, management of the Groups operating companies, including objectivity and effectiveness and approve the policy the key strategic risks impacting each business.
The Committee on the engagement of the external auditor to supply considered and reviewed the Groups adequate procedures non-audit services.
in relation to bribery and corruption and the provision of a whistleblowing service.
On 1 October 2014, changes were made The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the to the Code in relation to the identification and management of year and, following minor amendments, are considered fit for principal risks of the business, within an agreed risk appetite, purpose and reflect best practice.
The terms of reference are and provision of a longer-term viability statement of the available on the Companys website www.
The changes to the Code are applicable to the 2015 16 financial year and the Committee will work during the year to reflect those changes as required by the revised Code and provide necessary levels of enhanced disclosure in this report next year.
A fuller description of the operations of the Committee is set out below.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
For and on behalf of the Committee Andrew Bonfield Chairman of the Audit Committee 30 March 2015 www.
com 41 Corporate governance continued Governance Kingfisher Information Technology Services Limited.
The significant In accordance with the requirements of provision C. 3.1 of the matters the Committee considered in the year included: UK Corporate Governance Code, Andrew Bonfield is designated x Internal audit perform store audits in each of our operating as the Committee member with recent and relevant financial companies.
As part of this work, control issues relating to experience.
All other members of the Audit Committee are health and safety processes were identified across the Group.
deemed to have the necessary ability and experience The issues have been isolated instances of non-compliance to understand financial statements.
The attendance by with our health and safety procedures.
Action plans have members at Committee meetings is set out on page 41. been put in place to address these issues.
This is supported All members of the Committee receive appropriate induction, by the Group Health and Safety Committee.
The Committee in addition to the induction which all new directors receive.
was satisfied that the necessary steps were being taken to The induction programme includes an overview of the business, improve the standards of health and safety across the Group.
its financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members x the internal audit function has carried out regular reviews of also obtain access to the Groups operations and staff, and the Group-wide Easier IT Programme to provide the all members of the Committee undertake ongoing training Committee with assurance over the governance, performance as required.
and delivery of the major IT programme.
This is a significant The Committee is required, under its terms of reference, to project for the Group and the Committee is satisfied that the meet at least three times a year.
During the year, the Committee correct level of control is being maintained.
Further reviews met four times.
The Committee has a standing agenda linked to will be carried out in 2015. events in the Groups financial calendar for consideration at each x the Committee received two presentations from the IT meeting, and within the annual audit cycle, to ensure that its function, focusing on cyber risks the Group faces and the work is in line with the requirements of the Code.
At the invitation mitigation in place.
The Committee was satisfied that adequate of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board and the Chief steps were being taken to protect the Group against the cyber Executive Officer attended all meetings, as did the Chief threat.
This area has been added to the standing agenda and Financial Officer, Group Audit and Risk Management Director, will be reviewed at least twice a year by the Committee.
Group Finance and Planning Director and the external auditor.
Private meetings were also held with the external and internal x the Committee reviewed policies and processes in relation to auditors at which management were not present.
rebates during 2014 15 as a result of the change in industry context around that area, in addition to their disclosure within The effectiveness of the Audit Committee was considered the financial statements.
The Company has historically had as part of the Board evaluation detailed on page 37.
At its strong policies in place surrounding rebates and, as such, meeting in January 2015, the Committee considered the no significant concerns were raised as part of this review.
contents of the review and concluded that the evaluation had found the Committee provided robust and appropriate challenge In addition, the Committee continued to monitor the progress to the business and continued to operate efficiently and on the standardisation and improvement of the Groups internal effectively.
It was agreed that no specific actions were required control processes, in a number of key areas.
by the Committee as a result of the review.
The Committee reviewed the operation of the Group Detailed below is the key work undertaken by the Committee whistleblowing helpline, which allows employees within the during the year under review and up to the date of this Group and its suppliers to report suspicions of fraud, financial Annual Report.
and operational irregularities and other improprieties.
The SpeakUp service was reviewed along with arrangements Activities of the Audit Committee during the year to acknowledge, investigate and close down reports at the Internal controls and risk Committees meeting in January 2015 and, having considered The Committee received and considered reports during the extension of the service during the year to include all Group the year from the Groups internal audit function on the work sourcing offices and the expansion of reporting permitted in they had undertaken in reviewing and auditing the Group, in France, the number, location and type of incidents reported, order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal the Committee concluded that the Group continued to control system.
maintain adequate mechanisms for recording disclosures.
The Committee also received and considered reports from the Financial reporting and significant financial issues Groups external auditor, Deloitte LLP, which included any During the year, the Committee formally reviewed the control findings relevant to their audit.
Companys annual and interim financial statements and The Committee considered reports on the output from the associated announcements.
The reviews considered significant Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate accounting principles, policies and practices and their risks and reviewed the annual report on the Groups systems of appropriateness, financial reporting issues and significant internal control and their effectiveness, and reported the results judgements made.
The Committee also considered whether of the review to the Board.
Further information on the Groups the 2014 15 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced risk management and internal control procedures can be found and understandable, having received input and guidance from on page 44. the Disclosure Committee.
As part of the Committees continuing programme to increase its awareness of the Groups operations and to understand the implementation of operating company control processes, the Committee met with, and received presentations from, the senior management of operating companies in France Brico Dpt and Castorama, Turkey and Poland, and received a presentation from the senior management of its IT function, Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 42 Governance In conducting these reviews, the Committee considered the During the year, the Committee agreed the approach and work and recommendations of the Group finance function scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external and received reports from the Groups external auditor on their auditor, Deloitte LLP, and undertook an assessment of their findings, including any control observations relevant to their qualifications, expertise and resources, independence and the audit work.
The significant reporting matters the Committee effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee also considered in the year are detailed below: reviewed and agreed the terms of engagement, the fees, and areas of responsibility and the work to be undertaken by the x the Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill to external auditor, and agreed the fees payable in respect of the determine whether any impairment had been suffered.
Details of the amounts paid to the external Committee reviewed the significant financial assumptions auditor for their audit services are given in Note 7 to the accounts used, including validity of cash flow projections and the on page 100.
In addition, the external auditor provided the selection of appropriate discount and long-term growth rates: Committee with a schedule of each matter on which there was an initial difference between them and management in relation x the Committee considered the treatment of exceptional items, to the accounting treatment, and with the final decisions on which are presented as exceptional to help provide an these issues.
indication of the Groups underlying business performance: The Committee also considered the effectiveness and x the Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating independence of the external auditor.
This included a review of the appropriateness of of its effectiveness, the Committee reviewed the experience the Groups stock provisioning policy which takes into and expertise of the audit team, the fulfilment of the agreed consideration such factors as stock turn, damage and audit plan and any variations to it, feedback from the Groups obsolescence: and businesses and the contents of the external audit report.
x the Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to rebates, including the disclosures made in the critical In considering the independence of the external auditor, the Committee received a statement of independence from the accounting estimates and judgements section in Note 3 to the financial statements on page 96.
Based on the reports auditor, a report describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and reviewed received from the Groups finance function, the significant majority of the Groups supplier income relates to volumethe extent of non-audit services provided to the Group.
The Committee concluded that it is satisfied with the effectiveness based agreements, with the remainder representing other rebate income for which recognition is more judgemental.
The and independence of the external auditor.
Committee noted that volume-based income is largely based The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte on calendar year purchases, therefore the risk of misstatement LLP be proposed for re-appointment by shareholders as the is reduced significantly for year-end reporting.
The Committee Companys external auditor at the forthcoming Annual General reviewed the report from the Group finance and risk functions Meeting.
As a result of its work during the year, the Committee of the application of those key judgements and the related has concluded that it acted in accordance with its terms of controls in place over all rebates, and is satisfied with the reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity judgements taken and control environment in relation to the of the external auditor.
recognition of rebate income and financial statement reporting.
In addition to their statutory duties, the services of Deloitte LLP Group internal audit are also engaged where, as a result of their position as external The Committee considered and reviewed updates from the auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work internal audit programme at each of its meetings during the in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as year.
Reports from the internal audit function to the Committee the interim review, additional assurance procedures, shareholder included updates on the Groups risk management systems, circulars, Group borrowings, tax compliance, regulatory filings findings from reviews, and reviews of the remit, organisation, and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is annual plan and resources of the internal audit function.
In line awarded on the basis of competitive tendering.
with best practice, an external evaluation of the function was carried out during the year by Grant Thornton LLP, with input The Committee reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit from the functions key stakeholders within the Group.
The services provided and proposed by the external auditor to ensure review found the function to have a strong mix of competencies that there was no impairment of independence and objectivity, and experience, a good methodology to deliver a risk based plan and subsequently monitored the non-audit work performed to and sufficient resources to deliver the plan.
No significant issues ensure it was within policy guidelines.
were highlighted by the review.
The Group has a policy on the use of its external auditor for External audit non-audit work and this is regularly reviewed.
The external The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the auditor is precluded from engaging in non-audit services that Board with regard to the reappointment of the external auditor.
In would compromise their independence or violate any laws or doing so, the Committee takes into account auditor independence regulations affecting their appointment as external auditor.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as The approval of the Chairman of the Committee is required external auditor in 2009 10 following a formal tender process.
prior to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the external Richard Muschamp was appointed lead audit partner following auditor, where in excess of specified amounts.
The Groups the conclusion of the 2013 14 audit process, and will serve as policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit work lead partner until the external audit contract is put out to tender, can be found on the Groups website.
which in accordance with provision C. 3.7 of the Code in relation During the year, Deloitte LLP charged the Group 1.8m to audit tendering would mean the Company putting the external 2013 14: 1.8m for audit and audit-related services and a audit contract out to tender by 2019 at the latest.
com 43 Corporate governance continued Accountability, risk management and internal control Monitoring Internal control There are clear processes for controlling and monitoring the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of system of internal control and reporting any significant control internal control, which is designed to safeguard the assets of the failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
Group and ensure the reliability of the financial information for These include: both internal use and external publication, and to comply with x an annual planning process and regular financial reporting, the Turnbull guidance and the Code.
comparing results with plan and the previous year on a The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of monthly and cumulative basis: the internal control system, including financial, operational and x written reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief compliance controls and risk management in accordance with Financial Officer submitted at each Board meeting: the Code, for the period from 1 February 2014 to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15. x operating company management report formally to the Audit Committee on a regular basis on the control environment If significant losses were to be incurred during the year as a in their business and actions taken to maintain or improve result of a failure of controls, a detailed report would be provided the environment as appropriate: and to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board confirms that no significant weaknesses were identified in relation to the review x reports and presentations to the Board on certain areas carried out during the year and, therefore, no remedial action of specialist risk.
These include treasury, insurance, tax was required.
The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and A formal bi-annual certification is provided by the CEO and frameworks for effective internal control.
The Group has Finance Director of each operating company stating that procedures for the delegation of authorities for significant appropriate internal controls were in operation and confirming matters, to ensure approval is sought at the appropriate level.
compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Any These procedures are subject to regular review and provide an weaknesses are highlighted and the results are reviewed by ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the operating company management, the Group Audit and Risk significant risks faced by the Group.
Such a system is designed Management Director, the Group Finance and Planning Director, to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Audit Committee and the Board.
The internal audit function business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not monitors and selectively checks the results of this exercise, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ensuring that representations made are consistent with the results of its work during the year.
The responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring the system and the maintenance of effective control is delegated to The internal audit function follows a planned programme of the management of each of the Groups operating companies.
reviews that are aligned to the Groups risks.
The function: The Groups risk management and reporting process helps x works with the operating companies to develop, improve Group management to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate and embed risk management tools and processes into their risk.
Management at each operating company has responsibility business operations: for the identification and evaluation of the significant risks applicable to their business and any mitigating actions to be x reports directly to the Audit Committee and has the authority taken.
The Group Executive Committee reviews, identifies and to review any relevant part of the Group: evaluates the risks that are significant at a Group level, as well x oversees the operation of the individual operating companies as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then audit committees: and considered by the Board.
The types of risks identified included both strategic and material operational risks and are detailed x provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective on pages 26 to 29 of the Strategic Report.
assurance on the control environment across the Group.
Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the Risk appetite risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining During the year, the Board also considered the nature and level the risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the of risk that it was prepared to accept in order to deliver business likelihood of those risks materialising, in identifying the Groups strategies, and reviewed and approved the Groups internal ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business of statement of risk appetite.
This statement of risk appetite risks that do materialise, and in ensuring the costs of operating describes both the current and medium-term levels of particular controls are proportionate to the benefit provided.
acceptable risk, supported by high level qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively managed to the level desired by the Board.
