Corporate governance Nomination Committee Report Dear shareholder, Phil White I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Chair Report for 2015.
This report provides a summary of the Committees work during 2015.
As you will be aware, there have been a number of changes tothe Board during the course of the year and, as a result, the Committee has been extremely active.
I will be available to answer any questions about the work of the Committee at the AGM on 12 November 2015.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the members of the Board who have been appointed during the course of the year.
Role The role of the Committee includes: Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and  to the Board with regard to any changes: Giving full consideration to succession planning for the Board and other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise needed on the Board in the future: Being responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board any candidates to fillBoard vacancies: and Before any appointments made by the Board, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board.
The terms of reference for the Committee canbeviewed on the Companys website at http: www.
Composition and meeting attendance The members of the Committee are: Phil White Chair Richard Bailey Kirsty Bashforth Amanda Mellor Nick Winser At the invitation of the Committee, any other directoror other person may attend meetings of theCommittee.
The secretary of the Committee isthe Company Secretary.
Details of attendance at Committee meetings during the 2015 financial year are set out on page 69.
Principal activities 2015 A summary of the Committees principal activities in the 2015 financial year is as follows: Review of Board composition During the year, we reviewed the Boards composition toensure that it had the correct balance of skills, experience and independence in light of the 74 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 New director inductions Groups plans for future growth.
We concluded that As disclosed in the 2014 annual report, Kirsty the Board required greater representation from Bashforth joined the Board with effect from operational management to support the continued 1September 2014.
During the course of the growth of theunderlying business.
financial year, the Committee successfully oversawthe completion of Kirstys induction.
We therefore decided that, so as to strenghten the link between the operations and the Board, Nigel The Committee has also overseen the induction Brook would be appointed to the Board as Executive ofeach of the four executive directors who were Director Construction and Infrastructure Services, appointed during the year and will work with along with Nigel Turner as Executive Director JustinAtkinson to ensure that he also receives Developments and Property Services.
In addition, a full, formal and tailored induction.
and so as to assist the Board to continue to develop and implement its strategy, we appointed Claudio Further details of our Board inductions are set out Veritiero to the Board as the Group Strategy and onpages 70 and 71.
Succession planning As a result of these changes, it was agreed that the As a committee, we are keen to ensure that a strong former Chief Operating Officer, Steve Bowcott, would pipeline of future senior management has been stand down from the Board with effect from 27 April identified, from which future Board appointments 2015.
I would like to thank Steve for his significant may be made.
In particular, our focus will be on contribution to both the business and the Board.
ensuring that we have the right mix of skills and experience so that the Board can lead a group which New non-executive director has changed significantly since the acquisitions of As a result of the changes to the executive director May Gurney and Mouchel whilst also overseeing the representation on the Board, we decided that it delivery of Vision 2020.
In particular, we will be would be appropriate to appoint an additional challenging management to ensure that, immediately non-executive director, not only to comply with the below the Board, there is a robust pipeline of requirements of the Code with respect to the balance potential future Board members.
and independence of the Board but also to ensure that the Board, as a whole, has an appropriate range During the course of the year, the Committee of skills, experience and knowledge to lead the discussed the Groups succession plan for senior Group inthe next stage of itsgrowth.
Each of the three individuals appointed in March 2015 had previously been included on the As a committee, we concluded that the candidates succession plan and wewere, therefore, delighted to should have an in-depth knowledge of either the recommend their appointments to the Board.
We construction or services sectors, should have recent and relevant experience as an executive director of a look forward to working with the newly-appointed listed company and should be familiar with overseas Group HR Director to continue to ensure strong businesses.
We therefore engaged Russell Reynolds succession planning.
Associates Russell Reynolds to assist the Committee to identify potential candidates.
A role We recognise that diversity is an important element profile was agreed with Russell Reynolds, which then of succession planning.
We also recognise that produced a long list of candidates and, following diversity at Board level and across the Group, discussions with the Company, a short list.
including with respect to gender, is critical to our Interviews were held with members of the short list, continued success.
Although we continue to before Justin Atkinson, formerly the chief executive welcome the provisions of the Code which require of Keller Group plc, was identified as the preferred the consideration of diversity at Board level, we do candidate by the Committee.
The Committee is not consider that the setting of targets is necessarily satisfied that Russell Reynolds, in providing its in the best interests of the Group and, instead, services to the Committee, did not have any prefer to consider all aspects ofdiversity including connections with the Company.
gender when assessing the composition of the Board and any future appointments.
Each member of the Board and the Company Secretary then met Justin to further assess his skills and experience for the role.
Justin also took the opportunity to conduct thorough due diligence on therole and the Company, including meeting a number of our advisers.
The process concluded witha formal recommendation from the Committee to the Board and, on 30 July 2015, we were delighted to announce Justins appointment Phil White effective 1 October 2015.
Chair of the Nomination Committee 16 September 2015 75 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
