Governance Corporate governance Dear Shareholder Further details on the appointment processes are contained I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report in the Nomination Committee Report on page48.
for 2015 and my first as Chairman of the Company.
Committee memberships During 2015, the Company again complied fully with all Following my appointment as Chairman of the Board, oftheprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Ialsobecame Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Christine Hodgson took over as Senior Independent Director.
In 2016, I will be conducting a review of the Companys During the year, there were also a number of other changes governance structure and arrangements to ensure they to the Committee memberships: Mark Pain was appointed arerobust and appropriate in light of the proposed merger Chairman of the Audit Committee and David Martin was with certain businesses of Gala Coral, which, if completed, alsoappointed as a member of the Audit Committee: will form Ladbrokes Coral plc.
Any proposed changes will Christine Hodgson and Darren Shapland were appointed beimplemented during 2016 and will be reported in the asmembers of the Nomination Committee: I was appointed Annual Report and Accounts 2016. as a member of the Remuneration Committee: and Sly Bailey Board composition was appointed as a member, and subsequently became During the year, we welcomed two newdirectors to the Chairman, of the Social Responsibility Committee.
Mark Pain Board: Jim Mullen succeeded Richard Glynn as Chief has subsequently been appointed as a member of the Executive on 1 April 2015 and was subsequently appointed Nomination Committee.
as a director on 7 May 2015 and Mark Pain joinedas Board effectiveness Non-Executive Director on 3December 2015.
In 2015, we again conducted an external evaluation of the Darren Shapland retired as Non-Executive Director on Board and its Committees.
Details are contained on pages 24September 2015, having served for six years on theBoard 40 and 41. and Peter Erskine retired as Chairman on 3 December 2015 after serving as Chairman of the Company for six years.
As announced in September 2015, Ian Bull will be retiring from the Board at the end of February 2016.
Iwould like to thank Darren, Peter and Ian for their commitment and contribution John M Kelly to the Board during their tenures with theCompany.
Chairman BOARD FOCUS DURING 2015 BOARD FOCUS FOR 2016 Approved the proposed merger with certain Delivering against strategic plan businessesof Gala Coral Planning for the integration of certain businesses Appointment of new Chief Executive ofGalaCoral Approval of new strategic plan Review the governance structure inlight of the Agreed a new financing arrangement proposedenlarged Group Reviewed cyber security risk Embed culture further into the Company Considered talent management and culture Hold additional deep dives on specific areas of Assessed the performance of the business units thebusiness Reviewed the Groups risk tolerance and risk Increased site visits for the non-executive directors managementsystems For further details on the Boards activities during 2015, seepage 40.
com Board Diversity The Board has endorsed the aims of the Davis Report entitledWomen on Boards and in 2015 aimed to increase the percentage of women on the Board to 25% by 2016.
Following the change in directors during the Chairman 12% 1-3 years 40% Male 75% Executive director 25% year, the Board hasmet its aim with the current percentage of women 3-6 years 40% Female 25% Non-executive 6-9 years 20% onthe Board having increased from 22% in 2014 to 25%.
Thecharts director 63% illustrate the diversity of the Board in terms ofgender, balance of executive directors to non-executive directors NEDs and length oftenure of the NEDs as at 31 December 2015.
Diversity UK Corporate Governance Code The Company recognises the value that diversity brings to its The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in Boardroom and believes that the Board performs better and 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC is available at supports its overall objectives within the business strategy when www.
This Governance section of the Annual Report, it includes the best people representing a range of capabilities, including the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 71 experience and perspectives.
In line with this, the Company and the disclosures contained in the Risks section on pages 26 aims to foster a diverse Board, including a mix of gender, to 30, provides details of how the Company applied the principles ethnicity and backgrounds.
The Nomination Committee Report and complied with the provisions of the Code during 2015. on page 48 contains further information on Board composition The Board and the charts above illustrate the diversity of the Board.
Role Matters reserved for the Board The Board provides strategic leadership and oversight.
It is The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically responsible for the Companys culture, values and ethical reserved for its decision and approval which includes: standards and is committed to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Groups operations.
Each director Approval of the strategic and annual profit plans: brings experience, independence of character and judgement Key announcements e. g. financial statements: to their role.
The independent non-executive directors bring a Dividend declarations: broad perspective to the deliberations of the Board.
They Board appointments: support the development of the Groups strategic direction, Major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: provide critical and constructive challenge to the executive Material contracts: and directors and exercise oversight through their participation in the work of the Boards principal Committees on matters such Treasury policy and other Group policies.
as remuneration, risk management systems, financial controls, The section Financial reporting, internal control and risk financial reporting, the appointment of further directors and management systems on pages 41 to 43 contains further social responsibility.
information on how the Board operates.
Composition Operation of the Board The Board is comprised of the Chairman, two executive Board attendance directors, the Senior Independent Director and four The Board and its Committees meet regularly according to independent Non-Executive Directors.
The names and a schedule linked to key events in the Companys corporate significant commitments of all directors are contained on calendar.
Ad hoc meetings are also arranged to consider matters pages 36 and 37.
There were no significant changes to those requiring review and decision outside the scheduled meetings.
During the year, nine scheduled Board meetings were held.
Six The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the additional Board meetings were held, five were in relation to the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out inwriting proposed merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral and one and agreed by the Board.
was to approve the appointment of the Chief Executive.
The following sets out the division of responsibilities on the Board: Role Director Responsibility Chairman John Kelly Responsible for the operation, leadership and governance of the Board and its effectiveness inallrespects, and for relations with shareholders.
Chief Executive Jim Mullen To manage the Groups operations, including the development of strategic plans and initiatives tobeapproved by the Board, and subsequent implementation.
Chief Financial Officer Ian Bull To manage all aspects of the Groups financial affairs and to contribute to the management of the Groups operations.
Senior Independent Christine Hodgson To act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors Director where necessary.
Also to be available to shareholders if they have concerns, where contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve the concern, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Independent Sly Bailey, David To constructively challenge the executive directors, develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the Non-Executive Director Martin, Richard performance of management, satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information, controls Moross and andsystems of risk management and to set the levels of remuneration for executive directors and Mark Pain senior management.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Governance Corporate governance continued In addition to the Board meetings, during the year, the Chairman Board activities met with the non-executive directors without the executive Details of the Boards main areas of focus during the year are directors present.
summarised below: Attendance at Board meetings held during the year is shown Strategy, finance and Considered and assessed the strategic and below: performance operational performance of each business unit Held deep-dive sessions on the Digital and Directors as at Number of meetings Number of meetings 31 December 2015 eligible to attend attended Retail businesses Approved a new strategic plan for the Group John Kelly 15 15 Reviewed and approved that the Retail 1 Jim Mullen 11 11 business in the Republic of Ireland be entered Ian Bull 15 15 into Examinership 2 Sly Bailey 15 14 Considered and approved revised terms on Christine Hodgson 15 15 the commercial arrangements with Playtech 3 Reviewed and approved a new financing David Martin 15 14 arrangement Richard Moross 15 15 Considered and approved the merger 4 Mark Pain 1 1 between the Company and certain business Former directors of Gala Coral.
5 Peter Erskine 15 15 Governance Reviewed and approved the Groups 6 Richard Glynn 3 2 and risk anti-bribery compliance programme and the 7 Darren Shapland 12 12 revised Anti-Bribery Policy Statement Reviewed the Groups cyber security risk 1 Jim Mullen was appointed to the Board on 7 May 2015. management plan 2 Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior business commitments.
Reviewed the overall risk tolerance for the 3 David Martin was unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior personal commitments.
Group and that the processes for ensuring 4 Mark Pain was appointed to the Board on 3 December 2015. the necessary risk management systems and 5 Peter Erskine ceased to be a director on 3 December 2015. culture were embedded within the business.
6 Richard Glynn ceased to be a director on 31 March 2015.
He was unable to attend one Board meeting due to it relating to the appointment of the Chief Executive.
Leadership, culture Considered the senior management structure 7 Darren Shapland ceased to be a director on 24 September 2015. and employees given the change in Chief Executive Reviewed and approved the revised Board and Committees support Whistleblowing Policy Assessed with support of the Nomination The Company has systems in place to ensure that the Board is Committee, the plans relating to talent supplied with appropriate and timely information to enable it to management, succession planning and the discharge its duties.
An encrypted electronic Board Portal is culture and values to be embedded within used to distribute Board and Committee papers and to provide theCompany.
efficient distribution of business updates and other resources Shareholder Regularly reviewed reports on investor tothe Board.
Board members request additional information or engagement relations activity Reviewed and approved the Circular and variations to regular reporting as required.
A procedure exists Notice of General Meeting to shareholders for directors to seek independent professional advice in the with regards to the proposed merger with furtherance of their duties if necessary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board Board evaluation through the Chairman and the Committees on all governance An annual formal Board evaluation is undertaken focusing matters.
All directors have access to the advice and services onthe performance of the Board and of its Committees and ofthe Company Secretary.
In 2015, the evaluation was externally The Committees are also provided with sufficient resources facilitated by Lintstock Limited.
Other than the provision of a toundertake their duties.
They have access to the Company software solution to manage insider lists, Lintstock has no other Secretary who acts as secretary to all Committees, all other connection with the Company.
The evaluation exercise used employees and is able to take independent legal or professional questionnaires tailored to the requirements and specific advice when they believe it is necessary to do so.
The questionnaires were All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
completed by each director in relation to their own performance and on the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Acombination of tailored Board and Committee agenda items The evaluation was thematic and considered: and other Board activities, including briefing sessions, assist the directors in continually updating their skills and the knowledge Board composition, expertise and dynamics: and familiarity with the Company required to fulfil their role both Board support and time management: on the Board and on Board Committees.
In addition, external Board Committees: seminars, workshops and presentations are made available to Strategic oversight: directors.
The Company provides the necessary resources for Risk management and internal control: developing and updating directors knowledge and capabilities.
Succession planning and human resources management: and Priorities for change.
The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board and the individual Committees and actions arising were agreed.
com In addition, the Chairman conducted an appraisal of each Principal Committees director.
The Senior Independent Director, having consulted The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit with each of the other directors, conducted an appraisal Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee interview with the Chairman.
The membership of eachof the Committees is comprised of only independent The Boards 2015 evaluation highlighted a number of areas non-executive directors.
Terms of Reference for the principal offocus, including: Committees are available on the Companys website at Enhancing the Boards engagement with the Retail and www.
Details of the responsibilities Digitalbusinesses through a tailored programme of and activities of the principal Committees are outlined in each operational visits and management presentations: of the respective reports on pages 44 to 71.
More effective use of the depth of talent and experience Standing Committees thatexists around the Board table: and In addition to the principal Committees, the Board has Refreshing the Boards membership to ensure that the established two standing Committees which review and composition is appropriate for the Groups next phase approve routine operating and regulatory matters.
standing Committees generally comprise any two of the An update on progress in these areas will be provided in the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer.
The Disclosure Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to In 2014, the annual evaluation highlighted a number of areas consider and make decisions relating to the handling of inside offocus and progress against these areas is as follows: information concerning the Company and the Group.
The 2014 area of focus Progress made during 2015 Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring the timely andaccurate disclosure of inside information to the market in Reviewing the structure and content A revised Board pack structure has ofpapers presented to the Board been agreed with the Chairman accordance with the Companys obligations under the Financial andis being implemented in 2016.
Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules and for Increasing the proportion of time at A greater proportion of the Boards monitoring compliance with the Companys disclosure controls meetings devoted to discussions meeting time was devoted to and procedures.
on strategic issues and a range of strategy during the year.
specific topics The Finance Committee meets as required to deal with all routine business excluding matters that are specifically Increased focus on the Groups The frequency of reporting on riskmanagement process, principal principal risks has been increased.
reserved to the Board or to another Committee and specific risks and key dependencies matters delegated to it by the Board requiring attention between Greater exposure to senior The Nomination Committees scheduled Board meetings.
management and more membership was extended to Attendance at meetings of the Disclosure Committee and engagementin the evaluation include all Independent NonoftheGroups talent pool Executive Directors and the Finance Committee are set out in the table below: Committee receives regular Directors as at 31 December 2015 Disclosure Committee Finance Committee updateson senior management John Kelly 0 1 andtalent developments.
Jim Mullen 3 22 Board committees Ian Bull 8 28 Former directors The Board has four principal Committees and two standing Peter Erskine 5 6 Committees: Richard Glynn 2 1 In addition, the Executive Committee, Risk Committee and Investment Committee referred to elsewhere in this Annual BOARD Report are not formal BoardCommittees.
Financial reporting, internal control and riskmanagement systems The Board has ultimate responsibility for the internal control and Social risk management systems operating throughout the Group and Audit Nomination Remuneration Responsibility Committee Committee Committee for reviewing their effectiveness.
No such systems can provide Committee absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide Disclosure Finance the Board with reasonable assurance that potential problems Committee Committee will normally be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Governance Corporate governance continued The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that the and operational review meetings together with an annual Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board programme of plan reforecasting and strategy reviews attended has reviewed the Annual Report 2015 and, taken as a whole, by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer together considers it to be fair, balanced and understandable and with, as appropriate, other Executive Heads and executives.
provides shareholders with information necessary to assess The Board regularly receives reports from Executive Heads theCompanys position and performance, business model covering areas such as operations, forecasts, business andstrategy.
Inarriving at this conclusion, the Boards review development, strategic planning, human resources, legal draws on its collective knowledge of the business, which is and corporate matters, compliance, health and safety and regularly updated by management reports and presentations corporate responsibility.
atscheduled Board and Committee meetings and other Investment business updates provided between meetings.
There is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval The Company had procedures in place throughout the year of investment expenditure and asset disposals.
An Investment andup to 22 February 2016, the date of approval of this Annual Committee comprising of the Chief Executive and the Chief Report, which accord with the Guidance on Risk Management, Financial Officer, consider all significant financial commitments, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting including past investment appraisals.
Major projects are published by the FRC in September 2014.
The Board has reported on at each scheduled Board meeting.
Post-investment delegated the detailed design of the systems of internal control appraisals are undertaken on a systematic basis and are formally and risk management to the executive directors.
reviewed by both the Board and the Investment Committee.
Control framework Risk The control framework and key procedures during 2015 in An ongoing process is in place for identifying, evaluating and relation to the financial reporting process were as follows.
managing the risks faced by the Group.
Principal including specific material risks and their financial implications are The Group operates through two primary Business Channels appraised bythe Executive Committee which is assisted by and a number of Business Support Units: acommittee of Business Support Unit executives the Risk Committee.
Thisis an integral part of the strategic planning Operations process.
Theappropriateness of controls is considered, having regard to cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
Principal including specific material risks and Digital Retail actions to mitigate those risks are considered at Board meetings and are formally reviewed andapproved by the Board twice yearly.
Each significant risk isassigned executive director Executive Head ownership.
During the year, the Groups risk Corporate Communications Corporate Development Finance management systems were enhanced.
A new Enterprise Risk Management Framework hasbeen established, which includes Human Resources Information Technology an assessment of risk appetite and tolerance within the Group Legal Marketing Trading, Pricing and Liability Management as a whole.
The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the Group.
Details of Business Support the principal risks and how they are managed are shown on pages 26 to 29.
There is an Executive Head responsible for each of these Policies and controls Business Channels and Business Support Units.
Key policies and control procedures including treasury, Business planning compliance and information system controls are documented Corporate strategy and Group-wide business objectives are and have Group-wide application.
There are also operating reviewed annually by the Board and the Group profit plan is procedure manuals that are integrated with Group-wide approved by the Board.
The Business Support Unit controls.
High standards of business ethics and compliance management integrate Group-wide objectives into business with laws, regulations and internal policies are demanded from strategies for presentation to the Board with supporting financial employees at all levels.
To underpin the effectiveness of objectives.
Operating plans for each Business Support Unit controls, it is Group policy to recruit and develop management comprise financial and operating targets, capital expenditure and other employees of high calibre, integrity and with proposals and performance indicators and are reviewed by the appropriate disciplines.
A system of bi-annual self-certification Executive Committee.
of compliance with key controls and procedures is operated throughout the Group.
Reporting and oversight The Chief Executive and the Executive Heads comprise the The role of the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness Executive Committee and meet monthly to consider Group of the systems of internal control and risk management strategy, financial performance, business development and is explained in the Audit Committee Report on page 45. management issues.
Other senior executives participate as The Group has an internal audit function, which is outsourced appropriate.
In addition, there are weekly and monthly financial to Deloitte LLP, and reports to management and the Audit 42 ladbrokesplc.
com Committee on Group operations.
The Board also conducts a 2015 continual assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control During the year, and risk management systems.
The assessment takes account the Company has of all significant aspects including risk assessment, the control reported to and environment and control activities, information and engaged with investors communication, and monitoring.
as follows: Anti-bribery and whistleblowing The Board recognises that as a global betting and gaming Reporting event Investor engagement business there is potential for exposure to bribery and corruption.
Failure by employees, suppliers or agents to complywith anti-bribery and corruption legislation including 2014 Preliminary Investor conference Q1 theUK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Results announced call on the 2014 or any failure in policies and procedures to monitor and Preliminary Results , anywhere in the world, could result Analyst briefing insubstantial penalties, criminal prosecution and significant on the 2014 damage to the reputation of the Company.
Preliminary Results The Board ensures that there are a number of policies, procedures, management systems and internal controls in place across the business to prevent bribery and corruption Q2 Circular and Notice Investor conference occurring.
This includes policies on whistleblowing, anti-bribery, ofAnnual General call on the Q1 gifts and hospitality, charitable donations and sponsorship.
Meetingmade available TradingStatement Supplementary audit, monitoring and review processes are 2015 Annual Q1 Trading Statement designed to identify breaches of Group controls.
The GeneralMeeting announced Whistleblowing Policy enables and encourages employees to report in confidence any possible malpractice, impropriety or other matters of concern which may arise in the business.
Any matters raised in accordance with the Policy are investigated Proposed merger with Investor conference Q3 thoroughly and reports are provided at each meeting of the Gala Coral announced call on the proposed Audit Committee.
merger and new New strategic plan strategic plan announced Relations with shareholders Analyst briefing on the 2015 Interim Results There is a regular programme of meetings with major proposed merger and announced institutional shareholders to consider the Groups performance new strategic plan and prospects.
In addition, presentations are made twice yearly Investor conference after the announcement of results, the details of which, together call on the 2015 with the Groups financial reports and announcements, can be Interim Results accessed at www.
During 2015, the Chairman met with several institutional investors and their Analyst briefing on the representative bodies in addition to results presentations, the 2015 Interim Results Annual General Meeting and the General Meeting to approve Meetings with the proposed merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral institutional investors Gala Coral.
Other directors are available to meet the regarding the Companys major shareholders if requested.
A report on proposed merger investor relations, whichincludes updates on meetings with with Gala Coral major institutional shareholders, is given at each Board meeting.
The Companys brokers also present to the Board annually.
Principles of ownership, corporate governance and voting New financing Q4 Investor conference guidelines issued by the Companys major institutional arrangement announced call on the Q3 Trading shareholders, their representative bodies and advisory Statement Q3 Trading Statement organisations are circulated to, and considered by, the Board.
announced Meetings with The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects institutional investors Circular and Notice of with its individual shareholders who have an opportunity to regarding the General Meeting relating to question the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
Further proposed merger the proposed merger with information on our relations with shareholders is contained in with Gala Coral Gala Coral made available the Shareholder information section on page 142.
General Meeting to approve the proposed merger with Gala Coral Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Governance Corporate governance continued AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Composition and constitution The Audit Committee oversees the Groups financial reporting and internal controls and provides a formal reporting link with the external auditors.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website, www.
The Audit Committee comprises three members, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board at the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which consults with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board has satisfied itself that the Committees membership includes directors with recent and Dear Shareholder relevant financial experience.
I am pleased to present the activities of the Audit The members of the Committee that served during the year Committee during the year.
were: During the year, there were a number of changes to the Appointment date Committee role membership of the Committee.
I succeeded Darren Shapland as Chairman of the Committee, David Martin Mark Pain 3 December 2015 Chairman was appointed as a member and John Kelly ceased to Christine Hodgson 1 May 2012 Member David Martin 25 September 2015 Member bea member following his appointment as Chairman of Former members the Company.
1 John Kelly 1 September 2010 Member I would like to thank Darren for his contribution to the 2 Darren Shapland 16 February 2010 Chairman workofthe Committee during his six years on the Board.
1 John Kelly ceased to be a member of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
In addition to our usual matters, including the financial 2 Darren Shapland ceased to be Chairman of the Committee on 24 September 2015. results for the full year and half year and the quarterly trading statements, applicable accounting policies Main responsibilities of the Committee andgoing concern assumptions, the Committee has The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: increasedits focus on the Groups risk management Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of processes and procedures, specifically in relation to the the Company and significant financial reporting issues international businesses, and has also regularly reviewed and judgements: the Groups approach to managing cyber security.
Review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls A review was again carried out of the Committees and risk management systems: effectiveness which concluded that the Committee Review the Companys arrangements for its employees continued to operate effectively.
A number of areas of toraise concerns in confidence and procedures for improvement were also identified, for which I will lead detectingfraud: theimplementation process.
Consider and approve the remit of work of the Companysinternal audit function, as well as monitor andreview their effectiveness: Oversee the relationship with the external auditor: Review and approve the external annual audit plan and Mark Pain reviewing the finding of the audit: Chairman of the Audit Committee Implement a policy on the supply of non-audit services bytheexternal auditor: and Review and monitor the external auditors independence andobjectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
com Meetings attendance External auditor The Committee meets as required, but not less than three The Companys external auditor,  LLP timesa year.
Other directors, including the Chief Financial PwC, were appointed at the Annual General Meeting held Officer, attend Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee on7May 2014 following a competitive tender process.
The metfor private discussions with the external auditor, whose provision of statutory audit services to the Company and its representatives attend all of its meetings, together with the subsidiary undertakings will be subject to a competitive tender internal auditor, Deloitte LLP.
Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year The external auditor reports to the Committee on the actions and the attendance of Committee members is shown below: taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and with best practice designed to ensure its independence.
Members as at Number of meetings Number of meetings 31 December 2015 eligible to attend attended Inaddition, the Committee has adopted a policy on the Mark Pain 0 0 engagement of external auditors for the provision of non-audit Christine Hodgson 5 5 services which can be viewed at www.
Former members The policy sets out controls intended to ensure that the John Kelly 5 5 independence of the external auditor is not impaired Darren Shapland 3 3 andstipulates: 1 David Martin was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business The nature of non-audit services that are permitted to commitments.
beperformed by the external auditor: Committee activities Levels of authority for management to engage the external The main activities of the Committee during 2015 included: auditor for approved non-audit services: and The critical review of the significant financial reporting issues That any non-audit services to be provided by the external inconnection with the preparation of the Companys financial auditor for a single project or specific services for fees in and related formal statements, with the assistance of reports excess of 100,000 must be approved in advance by received from management and the external auditor, including theCommittee.
the process for assessing whether the going concern basis Details of non-audit services are presented to the Committee ofaccounting remains appropriate: for its review at each meeting.
Fees for non-audit services Assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems provided by PwC in the year amounted to 2.0m 2014: 0.5m established to identify, assess, manage and monitor of which 1.6m related to one-off services provided for the financialand non-financial risks: proposed merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral.
The Monitoring the integrity and effectiveness of the Companys Committee considered that PwC was best placed to perform internal financial controls by reference to: this work because of its knowledge of the Group which would a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls enable the service to be provided efficiently.
The Committee is satisfied that the provision of approved non-audit services has b regular reports and presentations from the heads of key not compromised the independence and objectivity of the riskfunctions, internal audit and external audit external auditor.
c th e results of the system of annual self-certification of The performance of the external auditor is reviewed by the compliance with key controls and procedures: Committee on an annual basis through a qualitative assessment Monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the services provided against the agreed audit plan and ofthe internal audit function, including any actions taken taking account of feedback received from management.
following any significant failures in internal controls.
During Following this review the Committee is satisfied that the theyear, the Committee focused on the control improvements externalaudit process operates effectively.
Whilst progress has been steady, there remain improvements tobe made so that the necessary controls are embedded fully across the Groups operations: Reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, the findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process reviewing its effectiveness: Reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: and Considered the due diligence performed with regard to the disclosures made in the Circular to shareholders in relation to the proposed merger with certain businesses of Gala Coral.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Governance Corporate governance continued Accounting and key areas of judgement The main areas considered by the Committee in relation to 2015 are set out below: Matter considered Action Taxation Accounting for uncertain tax positions and the level The Committee received regular reports from management on the of deferred and current tax asset recognition and corporation tax rate as well as the judgements exercised in arriving at disclosure in relation to accumulated tax losses are thecorporation tax rate, recognition of corporation tax credits and the based on a series of judgements.
These judgements deferred tax recognised and disclosed.
Assumptions underlying the have an impact on the corporation tax rate and positions taken on significant deferred tax assets were supported by recognition ofdeferred tax assets in 2015 the Group reports from other tax, advisory and legal firms.
The Committee discussed has recognised a corporation tax credit of 35.0m the key judgements in relation to both the uncertain tax positions and excluding the tax credit on exceptional items.
understood the basis on which deferred and current tax was recognised In addition to therecognition, the Committee also ordisclosed.
The Committee also considered the work done and the considered the appropriateness of the disclosures conclusions reached by PwC over this area as part of their audit.
provided in the Annual Report.
Carrying value of long-lived assets In addition to the licences in the Retail estate, as The carrying value of all long-lived assets are tested for impairment aresult of recent acquisitions and the significant annually.
The Committee reviewed the methodology and the outcome level of investment in technology over the past ofthe various impairment review papers presented by management threeyears, the Group has significant goodwill andreviewed the key assumptions in respect of each of the Retail and andother intangible assets which needed to be Digital businesses, understanding how these related to Board approved reviewed for impairment.
In 2015, the Group has plans and forecasts.
The Committee also reviewed analysis and recognised an impairment loss of 53.2m in respect supportfor the Groups software assets and debated the basis for oflong-lived assets.
The Committee also considered the work done and the conclusions reached by PwC over this area as part of their audit.
Exceptional items The Group classifies certain items in the income The Committee has reviewed the items considered exceptional statement as exceptional, to allow a clearer bymanagement which have been discussed at each of the past understanding of the trading performance on a fourCommittee meetings.
The Committee has challenged the consistent and comparable basis together with an appropriatenessand classification of these items of costs as well as understanding of the effect of non-recurring or large income as exceptional.
The Committee also considered the work done individual transactions upon the overall profitability andthe conclusions reached by PwC over this area as part of their audit.
In 2015, the Group has incurred total operating exceptional costs of 99.3m.
com NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Composition and constitution The Nomination Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board and leads the process for the appointment of directors to the Board.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, areavailable onthe Companys website, www.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and all of theindependent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
The members of the Committee that served during the year were: Appointment date Committee role 1 Dear Shareholder John Kelly 15 February 2011 Chairman Sly Bailey 1 May 2013 Member I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Christine Hodgson 31 March 2015 Member Committee.
David Martin 7 May 2014 Member Christine Hodgson and Darren Shapland were appointed Richard Moross 31 March 2015 Member as additional members of the Committee during the year Former members 2 and, Mark Pain was also appointed as a member of the Peter Erskine 18 February 2009 Chairman 3 Darren Shapland 1 May 2013 Member Committee on 25 January 2016.
These appointments further strengthened the composition of the Committee.
1 John Kelly was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
2 Peter Erskine ceased to be Chairman of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
I was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 3 3 Darren Shapland ceased to be a member of the Committee on 24 September 2015.
Main responsibilities of the Committee During the year, the Committee led the processes for The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: theappointment of the Chief Executive, a new NonExecutive Director and the replacement of Chairman of Review the structure, size and composition of the Board, taking the Company.
Further details on the appointment into account the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and processes can be found on page 48. diversity, and to make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: In light of the retirement of Ian Bull as Chief Financial Officer at the end of February 2016, the Committee Consider succession planning for directors and other senior alsoconsidered who would act as Chief Financial Officer executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities untilthe proposed merger with certain businesses of facing the Company: Gala Coral was completed.
Identify and nominate for approval by the Board, candidates tofill Board vacancies as and when they arise: During 2016, the Committee will focus further on Prepare a job specification for the appointment of the Chairman: refreshing its membership and Board and senior Identify candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director management succession planning.
and for membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Social Responsibility Committees, in consultation with the Chairmen ofthose Committees: and Make recommendations to the Board concerning the directors standing for re-election by shareholders.
John M Kelly Chairman of the Nomination Committee Meetings attendance The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance of Committee members is shown below: Members as at Number of meetings Number of meetings 31 December 2015 eligible to attend attended John Kelly 8 8 1 Sly Bailey 8 7 Christine Hodgson 5 5 2 David Martin 8 7 Richard Moross 5 5 Former members Peter Erskine 8 8 Darren Shapland 5 5 1 Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
2 David Martin was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior personal commitments.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Governance Corporate governance continued Committee activities Appointment of Jim Mullen The main activities of the Committee during 2015 included: In 2014, the Committee began the process for the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer and appointed Led the processes for the appointment of a new Chief JCA Group and Korn Ferry to assist with the executive Executive Officer and a new Non-Executive Director: search process.
JCA Group and Korn Ferry are both Considered the composition of the Board Committees and signatories to the Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of recommended to the Board that David Martin be appointed Conduct.
The process was led by the Chairman with regular asa member of the Audit Committee following the departure updates being provided to the Board by the Committee.
ofDarren Shapland, and that Sly Bailey be appointed as a The Board as a whole considered the specific qualities member of the Social Responsibility Committee: theywanted in the Chief Executive, which included: Led the process to consider candidates to replace Peter Experience of the betting and gaming industry Erskine as Chairman of the Company.
John Kelly was not andapassion for the sports industry as a whole: involved in the Committees subsequent decision concerning A proven track record as a successful leader: his appointment as Chairman: Knowledge and experience in operating an Following the appointment of John Kelly as Chairman of the : and Board, recommended that Christine Hodgson be appointed as Senior Independent Director and Sly Bailey be appointed Extensive and proven experience in the asChairman of the Social Responsibility Committee: digitalmarketplace.
Recommended the appointment of Richard Snow as Acting JCA Group and Korn Ferry proposed a number of Chief Financial Officer: and candidates who were initially interviewed by the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The final candidates were Considered the output of the 2014 Board evaluation in terms of then interviewed by the non-executive directors, following candidates for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
which, itwas determined by the Committee that it be Diversity recommended to the Board that Jim Mullen be appointed The Company has a well established and published equal as Chief Executive from 1 April 2015.
The recommendation opportunities policy that guides all colleagues in how they fairly was subsequently approved by the Board.
deal with all colleagues and customers irrespective of age, Following the identification of Jim Mullen as the preferred gender, sexual orientation, religion, disability or ethnic origin.
candidate, the Remuneration Committee approved a That policy applies on how people are selected to work at competitive remuneration package for Jim Mullen.
theCompany and applies at all levels.
The Company has Furtherdetails on this can be found in the Directors asuccession policy that ensures all key roles including Remuneration Report on page 53. directorpositions are considered and the Company considers Appointment of Mark Pain candidates for roles from the widest possible field.
The Board During the year, the Committee began the search for an regularly reviews succession arrangements for all key roles and independent non-executive director and engaged Lygon the Nomination Committee reviews succession arrangements Groupto identify suitable candidates to join the Board.
The Strategic report includes details of wider LygonGroup is a signatory to the Executive Search Firms workforce gender diversity which are shown on page 34.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled As part of the Committees role in refreshing the Board, it Women on Boards and when considering future wasdetermined that the new non-executive director would appointments, with the support of the Nomination Committee, beappointed to act as Chairman of the Audit Committee, will aim to build on its current position.
The Company currently andwould also continue as a non-executive director of the has two women on the Board Christine Hodgson and Sly enlarged Group should the merger with Gala Coral complete.
Bailey and therefore 25% of the Board is made up of women.
Potential candidates were identified by Lygon Group and The Company has therefore achieved its aspiration to increase details were circulated to the Committee, following which a the percentage of women on the Board to 25% by 2016. short-list of candidates was produced.
Potential candidates TheBoard will continue to ensure appropriate representation were interviewed by Committee members, the executive bywomen, both on the Board and throughout the business, directors and board members of Gala Coral.
It was determined whilst at all times ensuring the Company selects on merit.
that Mark Pain be appointed as a non-executive director and Thecharts on page 39 illustrate the diversity of the Board.
the Committee recommended the appointment to the Board, The Committee continued to provide support for fostering and which subsequently approved the appointment.
developing talent and increasing diversity in the talent pool.
Aseries of presentations were made to the Committee which Appointment of Chairman ledto a number of constructive discussions.
Their advice and On 7 May 2015, it was announced that Peter Erskine would support has assisted the management team in improving the beretiring as Chairman during 2015 and that a search process content of their talent programmes and talent mapping exercises.
would be undertaken to find his successor.
Subsequently, KornFerry and Lygon were appointed to commence the Time commitments search exercise.
During the Boards discussions around On 17 February 2016, the Committee considered the output theproposed merger with GalaCoral it became clear that ofthe 2015 Board evaluation, following which the Committee John Kellys in-depth industry experience, coupled with concluded that each of the current directors is devoting hisunderstanding of the businesses and cultures of both sufficient time to their duties and responsibilities and brings theCompany and Gala Coral, identified him as the prime relevant skills and judgement to the work of the Board.
Each of candidate to succeed Peter Erskine.
Following consultation the current directors, with the exception of Ian Bull, will therefore with the Companys major shareholders, John Kelly was stand for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
appointed as Chairman with effect from 3December 2015.
com SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT Composition and constitution The Social Responsibility Committee reviews and advises the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups strategy and policies for ensuring that the Group operates a socially responsible and sustainable business that protects the young, protects the vulnerable, ensures the business is not associated with crime and disorder and that the Groups reputational standing ismaintained.
The Social Responsibility Committee comprises of two or moreindependent non-executive directors.
Appointments to Dear Shareholder the Committee are made by the Board on the recommendation I am pleased to present the activities of the Social of the Nomination Committee, which consults with the Responsibility Committee during the year.
Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee.
During the year, I was appointed as an additional member The members of the Committee that served during the year were: of the Committee and subsequently was appointed as Appointment date Committee role Chairman of the Committee following the appointment 1 Sly Bailey 25 September 2015 Chairman ofJohn Kelly as Chairman of the Board.
Christine Hodgson 3 July 2014 Member During the year, the Committee further reviewed the Former members policies and procedures relating to responsible gambling, 2 John Kelly 3 July 2014 Chairman which included a visit to the Groups operations in 1 Sly Bailey was appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 3 December 2015.
Further details on the Committees visit 2 John Kelly ceased to be Chairman of the Committee on 3 December 2015. toGateshead can be found on page 50.
During 2016, the Committee will focus further on Main responsibilities of the Committee responsible gambling and will also review and monitor The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: thepolicies and processes in relation to ethics, supply Review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the chain and health and safety.
Groups strategy and policies for ensuring that the Group operates a socially responsible and sustainable business: Receive reports, monitor performance and review Group policies on regulatory compliance, including responsible gambling, underage gambling, anti-money laundering, Sly Bailey bribery, health and safety, security, human rights and Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee ethics: and Monitor progress on the implementation of key social responsibility programmes.
Meetings attendance The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance of Committee members is shown below: Members as at Number of meetings Number of meetings 31 December 2015 eligible to attend attended 1 Sly Bailey 1 0 Christine Hodgson 3 3 Former members John Kelly 3 3 1 Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Governance Corporate governance continued Committee activities The main activities of the Committee during 2015 included: COMMITTEE VISIT TO THE GATESHEAD OPERATIONS In November 2015, the Committee and Jim Mullen, Reviewed the communications in relation to ChiefExecutive, visited our Gateshead Audit Centre, responsiblegambling: whichwas established in 1973 to support the growing Considered the responsible gambling targets for awards Retail estate.
During 2015, the headcount at Gateshead madeto directors and senior executives under the grew as the team expanded to incorporate our growing Performance Share Plan: focus on responsible gambling.
Reviewed the requirements for the Annual Assurance During the visit, the Committee were given an overview Statement that was required to be submitted to the GB and live demonstrations of the responsible gambling Gambling Commission: and reports generated by the audit team, that included activity Visited the operational team in Gateshead and reviewed relating to exceptional business occurrences, debit card theretail algorithm which was being used to track the usage, potential anti-money laundering and the retail behaviour of machine customers and compare them algorithm process.
Commenting on the visit, Jim Mullen said It was anextremely worthwhile day and gave the Committee a valuable insight into the activities of our Gateshead team whonow use their skills and experience tohelp keep our customers gambling responsibly.
