Corporate governance Risk Management and Audit Committee Report Dear shareholder, Richard Bailey I am pleased to present the Risk Management and Chair Audit Committee Report which summarises the work of the Committee during the 2015 financial year.
Iwill be available at the AGM on 12 November 2015 to answer any questions you may have about the Committees work and theGroups systems of risk management and internal control.
During the year, the Committee has supported the Board in maintaining soundfinancial reporting, risk management and internal control procedures.
Further details of theCommittees role are summarised under Rolebelow.
I have regular meetings with the Groups external and internal auditors, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Head of Group Risk and Assurance to discuss matters which are relevant to the Committees work.
To assist us in understanding the business and the risks associated with it, I and other members of the Committee visited a number ofthe Groups sitesduring the year and met members of management below the Board to discuss matters relevant to the Committee.
These visits and meetings, together with the reports we receive throughout theyear, supported the effective operation of theCommittee.
To achieve effective compliance with regulatory requirements, the Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference were reviewed at the June 2015 Committee meeting and were updated to reflect the requirements introduced by the September 2014 edition of the UKCorporate Governance Code the Code, which became effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 and will, therefore, apply to Kiers 2016 financial year.
The principal changes to the Code extended the Boards responsibilities to confirm that it has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks associated with the Groups business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: to provide a statement of the longer-term prospects and viability of the Group: and to monitor the Companys risk management and internal control systems on acontinuing basis.
I believe that the Committee is properly prepared to support the Board in relation tothese additional requirements during the 2016 financial year and will work with its external advisers and management in order to do so.
Role The primary elements of the Committees role are to: Monitor the Groups financial reporting procedures and the effectiveness of the externalaudit: Examine the integrity of the Groups financial statements and challenge significant financial reporting and other judgements inrelation to the financial statements: 76 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Review the adequacy and effectiveness of Principal activities in the 2015 financial year theGroups systems of internal control and The following matters were considered during riskmanagement: theCommittee meetings which took place during Review the adequacy of the Groups theyear: arrangements for its employees and contractors Sept Dec Feb Mar June to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible misdemeanours, known as whistle-blowing: Financial reporting Review the Groups procedures for Full-year results and detectingfraud: announcements Appraise the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, agreeing the topics to be Half-year results and addressed each year and reviewing the results announcements ofits work: and Going concern Test the independence and objectivity of theexternal auditor in accordance with the Dividend requirements of the Code and approve anynonExternal audit audit services provided bythe externalauditor.
General update The terms of reference for the Committee Management canbeviewed on the Companys website at representation letter http: www.
Evaluation of external auditors effectiveness Composition and meeting attendance The members of the Committee are: Recommendation ofappointment Richard Bailey chair Non-audit fees Kirsty Bashforth Amanda Mellor External audit plan Nick Winser Internal audit I am a chartered accountant and a partner in General update Rothschild, the investment bank.
In light of my Evaluation of internal significant experience from advising companies over 1 auditors effectiveness 35 years, I am considered bythe Board to have recent and relevant financialexperience.
Approval of internal auditplan The Committee met formally five times during the Other 2015 financial year.
Each of the members of the Risk management Committee attended those meetings.
The following including whistle-blowing were also in attendance: Compliance with corporate The Finance Director, the Group Financial governance requirements Controller and the Head of Group Risk and including fair, balanced Assurance which includes the internal and understandable auditfunction : requirement The other executive directors, when required to do Review of terms so to provide information about specific matters: ofreference Representatives from PwC for agenda items relating to the 2015 external audit or internal ERP programme audit matters prior to its appointment as the implementation external auditor at the 2014 AGM : and 1 Representatives from KPMG for agenda items The Committee discussed the process for assessing the effectiveness of the internal audit function at the December relating to internal audit matters or the 2014 2014 meeting.
The Committee will review KPMGs external audit prior to PwCs appointment as the effectiveness during the 2016 financial year.
The secretary of the Committee is the Company Risk management and internal controls Secretary.
Details of attendance at Committee The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups meetings during the 2015 financial year are set risk management and internal control systems.
Board is also responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks that it is prepared to take.
77 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Corporate governance Risk Management and Audit Committee Report continued TheHead of Group Risk and Assurance reports control self-assessment process and a number of tothe Committee on strategic risk issues and internal audit reviews carried out by KPMG across the hasoversight of the Groups risk management Groups operations.
These reviews confirmed that, in procedures.
Management is responsible for the general, the Groups risk management and internal identification and evaluation of the risks that apply control systems are effective, and support the tothe Groups business and operations, together production of appropriate financial information, but also with the design and implementation of controls identified anumber ofareas in which more efficient whichare designed to manage those risks.
systems are required to reflect the Groups recent growth and to support the delivery of Vision 2020.
The management of the Groups operations includes Those areas principally relate to the need for the asound assessment of risk.
Risk registers are consistent application of control processes and prepared at business unit, divisional and Group level.
systems and the effective centralisation of certain Those registers identify internal and external factors back-office functions.
During the 2016 financial year, the Committee willoversee managements response and risks, including those relating to contract tothe recommendations made by KPMG in its delivery, tender pricing, the Groups IT systems internal auditreviews.
These risks, and the controls designed to mitigate them, are Internal control and risk management systems continuously monitored.
A report of the principal financial reporting process risks and an assessment of those controls, based The Group has clear policies and procedures for on the consolidation of the Groups risk registers, example, those contained in the Group Finance isreviewed by the Committee on a quarterly basis.
Manual to ensure the conformity, reliability and Please see page 32 for further information on how accuracy of financial reporting, including the the Group identifies and manages risk.
processfor preparing the Groups interim and annualfinancial statements.
During the year, the Committee increased the strength of the risk assessment process and the The Group recruits suitably qualified and experienced level of independent review and challenge to it.
For finance professionals who have responsibility for the example, subject matter experts have been assigned financial reporting process.
Duties are segregated, to the identified principal risks and are responsible with clear lines of accountability and delegation of for providing support and challenge to the business authority.
The Groups financial reporting policies and inassessing and managing them.
procedures cover financial planning and reporting, preparation of financial information and the The Groups management of risk is designed to monitoring and control of capital expenditure.
The mitigate, but cannot completely eliminate, the risks faced by the Group.
Examples of the principal aspects Groups financial statements review process includes of the Groups risk management framework include: reviews at business unit, divisional and Group levels.
Details of the Committees involvement in the The Risk Review Committee, which reviews external audit process are set out below.
When risksarising during tenders for new contracts: fulfilling its obligation to review the integrity of the The Investment Committee, which reviews Groups financial statements, the Committee risksrelating to investment decisions taken receives support from the Groups other functions, bythe Group: including the company secretariat, legal, The Groups standing orders that set out complianceand internal audit functions, and delegated authorities within which the Group otherBoard committees.
These are supplemented by standing orders which apply at divisional and business Internal audit unitlevels: and Change of internal auditor A number of group-wide committees which ensure Prior to its appointment as external auditor with that key risks are managed appropriately.
These effect from the 2014 AGM, PwC resigned as internal include the Safety, Health and Environment auditor.
At the conclusion of a tender process, the Committee and committees which focus on the Committee recommended the appointment of KPMG management of IT risks relating to the Group.
as the Groups new internal auditor.
The Committee oversaw the transition from PwC to KPMG during the To reinforce this structure, the Group has a whistle- 2015 financial year.
blowing arrangement which enables employees toraise concerns, in confidence, over possible Internal audits 2015 financial year misdemeanours.
The Committee considers During the 2015 financial year, the Committee thearrangement to be appropriate and continues monitored the implementation and progress of tomonitor its effectiveness.
the2015 internal audit plan which was reviewed andapproved by the Committee at its June 2014 The Code and the Committees terms of reference meeting.
Upon its appointment, KPMG continued require the Committee, at least annually, to conduct with this programme of internal audits.
Results areview of the effectiveness of the Groups risk fromeach completed audit were discussed by the management and internal control systems on behalf Committee, together with the management actions ofthe Board.
The Committee reviewed the output from taken with respect to thoseaudits.
the quarterly risk management process, the annual 78 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Internal auditor effectiveness PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in office and the Committee has recommended PwCs The Code and the Committees terms of reference re-appointment to the Board which will, in turn, require the Committee to monitor and review the propose a resolution to this effect at the 2015 AGM.
effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
The Committee believes that, in order for External auditor independence and non-audit services itto assess KPMGs effectiveness, KPMG needs During the 2015 financial year, PwC provided tohave completed a sufficient number of internal non-audit services to the Group.
Therefore, the Committee intends to conduct monitors the level and scope of non-audit work a formal assessment of KPMGs performance in the awarded to PwC to ensure that any services provided 2016 financial year and will provide details of the are within relevant ethical guidance and that the results of this assessment in the 2016 annual report.
associated fees are not of a level that would affect The Committee is satisfied that the transition to PwCs independence and objectivity.
All fees relating KPMG was completed efficiently and effectively and to the provision of non-audit fees by PwC must be that the internal audit function fulfilled its objectives referred to and agreed by the Committee.
The fees paid to PwC during the 2015 financial year External audit in respect of non-audit services were 496,000, The Committee is responsible for: asfollows: Monitoring the effectiveness of the external Type of Specific Amount auditprocess: services services 000 Making recommendations to the Board in relationto the appointment, re-appointment Non-audit Project assurance in andremoval of the external auditor: assurance relation to ERP project 25 Approving the remuneration and terms of Mersey Gateway engagement of the external auditor: projectjoint venture Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors governance review 30 independence and objectivity: and Developing and implementing a policy on Sustainability theengagement of the external auditor to reportingassurance 50 supplynon-audit services.
Interim review 2015financial year 35 External auditor appointment process Following a comprehensive tender process, PwC Tax advice Flexible subsistence wasappointed as the Groups external auditor for and advice and tax the2015 financial year at the 2014 AGM.
compliance compliance services 50 Tax compliance and During the year, the Committee oversaw the consultancy services handover from KPMG and ensured that PwC inTrinidad 6 familiarised itself with the Group.
In order to do Transaction Reporting accountants so, PwC met key employees and members of advice work for Mouchel, carried management, including a number of individuals out at the request of Kier 300 fromoutside of the finance function, on formal andinformal occasions, and visited a number of Total 496 theGroups sites.
The total audit fees payable by the Group with External auditor effectiveness respect to the 2015 financial year were 1,240,000, The Committee is pleased with the insights provided of which 820,000 related to the audit of Kiers by the new audit team and its performance to date.
2015 financial statements and 420,000 related to The Committee has begun the process of formally the audit ofMouchels 2015 financial statements, assessing PwCs effectiveness by asking members Mouchels previous accounting reference date having of the Committee, the executive directors and been changed from 30 September to 30 June upon individuals who have worked with PwC during the completion of its acquisition by Kier.
The total 2015 financial year to provide their feedback.
This non-audit fees during the 2015 financial year process will conclude after the completion of the represented approximately 40% of the audit fees 2015 audit and further details will be included in payable in respect of the year.
financial year, 855,000 was paid to the external auditor, KPMG, in relation to non-audit fees, A similar review was conducted by the Committee representing approximately 101% of the audit fees with respect to the outgoing auditor, KPMG, where for that year.
feedback was sought from key individuals as to KPMGs performance.
No material issues were raised during the assessment.
The Committee wouldlike to thank KPMG for many years of excellentservice.
79 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Corporate governance Risk Management and Audit Committee Report continued PwC has strict requirements on rotation and the lead materiality and resources proposed by PwC to ensure audit partner is required to change after five years that they met the Groups requirements.
The audit and other senior team members are required fee was also discussed with the Committee prior to tochange after seven years.
PwC also provides its approval.
theCommittee with information on how it manages itsindependence and objectivity.
During the 2015 audit, I met the lead audit partner from PwC to discuss the audit process and its As part of the 2015 audit process, PwC confirmed findings.
At its September 2015 meeting, the that it was independent within the meaning of Committee reviewed PwCs findings and discussed applicable regulatory and professional requirements.
the significant issues that arose during the audit.
Taking this into account, and having considered the Inparticular, the Committee and PwC discussed steps taken by PwC to preserve its independence, thekey accounting and audit judgements and reviewed any unadjusted audit differences which the Committee concluded that PwCs independence hadbeen identified.
as external auditor had not been compromised notwithstanding the level of non-audit fees incurred Significant issues and other accounting judgements during the year.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing theappropriateness of managements judgements, Financial statements 2015 assumptions and estimates in preparing the financial The 2015 audit statements.
Drawing on its own experience, and The scope of the 2015 audit was discussed and after discussions with management and PwC, the approved by the Committee at its meeting in June Committee determined that thesignificant issues 2015.
The Committee reviewed and challenged and other accounting judgements relating to the theproposed plan and considered the levels of 2015 financial statements were as follows: Significant issue How the issue or accounting judgement wasconsidered and other accounting judgement Acquisition accounting The Group acquired Mouchel on 8 June 2015.
Accounting for the acquisition required an assessment of forMouchel thefair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, including the valuation of any separately identifiable intangible assets and goodwill.
During due diligence relating to the acquisition, the Company identified a number of exposures in Mouchel which were not previously recognised in its balance sheet.
Management worked with its external advisers on the transaction to agree the amount of the fair value adjustment, which was also considered by the Board when considering the acquisition.
The Committee is satisfied that thefair value adjustment which has been included in the 2015 financial statement reflects managements best estimate of the exposures which were identified.
The due diligence exercise also focused on contract assumptions and judgements, including those relating to profitability, claims and cash flow.
The Committee is satisfied that extensive due diligence, using both internal and external resources, was conducted with respect to assessing thevalue of Mouchels customercontracts.
Valuation of land The Group holds inventory within the Residential division, primarily comprising land held for residential andproperties development for which construction has not started and work-in-progress.
Thecarrying value of the inventory is based on the Groups current forecast estimate of the sales prices and building costs.
One of the key elements of the system of risk management and internal control within the Residential division is the development appraisals prepared by management, using a number of internal and external reference points.
At its meeting in June 2015, the Committee identified the valuation of land and properties as a key area of judgement and, therefore, agreed that PwC would challenge the principal assumptions underlying managements appraisals during the 2015 audit.
PwCs conclusion is set out in the independent auditors report: please see page 113.
80 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Significant issue How the issue or accounting judgement wasconsidered and other accounting judgement Accounting for longThe Group has significant long-term contracts in the Construction and Services divisions.
Profit is term contracts recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract.
The assessment of profit requires the exercise of judgement when preparing estimates of the forecast costs and revenues of a contract.
A number of factors are relevant to thisassessment, including in particular the expected recovery of costs.
During the year, the Board reviewed and considered managements latest assessment of the forecast costs and revenues on certain significant long-term contracts.
The Committee identified accounting for long-term contracts as one of the principal matters for review by PwC in the 2015 audit and discussed managements assessment of the profit on such contracts with PwC when considering the interim and year-end financialstatements.
At its meeting in March 2015, the Committee received a presentation from the Group Commercial Director about the Groups controls relating tocontract administration and management.
These controls are designed to assist the Group to assess the performance of the Groups contracts.
Accounting for Management has provided a separate disclosure of non-underlying items, in addition to presenting adjustments theunderlying results of the Group.
Detals of those items are set out in note 4 to the consolidated tounderlying profit financialstatements.
The non-underlying items and their disclosure have been discussed at Board meetings during the 2015 financial year.
The classification of items as non-underlying relates to the application of the Groups accounting policies, IFRS and recent pronouncements by the Financial Reporting Council onthe matter.
TheCommittee reviewed and considered these items with management in the context of its review ofthe 2015 financial statements.
The Committee also reviewed the work ofPwC in this area.
Assessment of carrying The majority of the Groups goodwill relates to the acquisitions of Mouchel and May Gurney.
value of goodwill One of the principal areas of focus of both the Board and the Committee during the 2015 financial year wasthe performance of the Group, which was of particular relevance to the audit procedures conducted by PwC with respect to the value of goodwill.
PwCs conclusion is set out in the independent auditors report: please see page 115.
Fair, balanced and understandable Arranging for PwC and FutureValue a corporate The Board delegated to the Committee the reporting consultancy to review the annual report responsibility for ensuring thatthe information in light of the requirement and for Mercer, the presented in this annual report, when taken as a Companys remuneration consultants, to review whole, is fair, balanced andunderstandable and the Remuneration Report: contains the information necessary for shareholders Circulating drafts of the annual report to the to assess the Groups performance, business model Committee and the Board to ensure that the and strategy.
document reflected the directors views of the material issues facing the Group: and The principal aspects of the review process Discussing material disclosure items at a meeting implemented by the Committee and management of the Committee.
aresummarised as follows: Setting up a committee of senior individuals within the Group to draft the annual report, with each of these individuals having responsibility forthe production of certain sections of Richard Bailey thedocument: Chair of the Risk Management and Holding regular meetings of this committee to AuditCommittee discuss and agree significant disclosure items: 16 September 2015 The committee members retaining copies of supporting materials and confirming that, in their opinion, the sections drafted by them were fair, balanced and understandable: 81 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
