CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 30 GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT Oversight of the Laird risk governance Risk review processes and control process rests with Risk Governance Group mechanisms are embedded into the RGG, which is chaired by the CEO and relevant day-job management framework comprises all C Suite Executive Team with the aim of managing rather than members.
The group meets at least four eliminating risk in accordance with the times annually and reviews a Risk Incident Boards risk appetite in relation to strategy Dashboard as well as changes to the and delivery of objectives.
The Chief wider risk environment and movement Risk and Assurance Officer is a member in the assessment of Lairds principal of the Executive Team and supports risks.
The RGG, chaired by the CEO, hisexecutive colleagues in managing the oversees major risk programmes and risk opportunity balance in the day-to-day management assurance on non-financial management of the business.
The Board controls, review of management of major conducts a full annual review to confirm risk incidents, aswell as conducting that the effectiveness of the risk and risk reviews for major events such as controls framework is satisfactory, that an acquisition.
The RGGs governance the arrangements for monitoring the risk responsibilities for operational and strategic environment and framework in the year risk complements the well-established role are acceptable and that they agree the of the Audit Committee with oversight of specific principal risks and are satisfied financial controls risk.
Interaction between with their management through the the responsibilities of the RGG and the related specific controls, monitors and Audit Committee is summarised in the assurance mechanisms.
Changes to the diagram below.
The risk management risk environment and management of andgovernance process is reviewed specific risk incidents are reported to annually as part of the External Audit.
RISK AND GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK LAIRD PLC BOARD RISK & AUDIT GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE GROUP FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL AND SYSTEMS AND STRATEGIC RISK AND RISK AND CONTROLS CONTROLS LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31 VIABILITY STATEMENT RISKTESTING RISK MANAGEMENT CASE STUDY Scenario testing of principal risks as part of the process to underpin the Viability Statement in the Directors Report for Catastrophic explosion 2015, see page 81, has been conducted.
The process uses the impairment principles at Tianjin docks cash headroom and asset impairment sensitivity used for the Going Concern Incident: statement, but over the three year horizon At 11.34pm on 12 August 2015 the of the Strategic Plan.
leading China port of Tianjin suffered A methodology which focused on the from a fire and two major explosions, speed-to-impact and potential for cash the worst of which equated to the impairment was used to assess all principal concurrent ignition of 24 tons of TNT.
risks in order to identify relevant key risk Laird was impacted directly.
scenarios which could impact viability.
This methodology targeted our testing Action: atsix relevant key risk scenarios from four Our major Tianjin manufacturing relevant risks from the current risk register.
facility is sited 2.9km from the blast The key risk scenarios tested were: which occurred during a night shift.
On hearing the first explosion which COMPETITION AND only caused minor damage to the MARKETCONDITIONS facility, the night shift team immediately Loss of a top five customer: followed their evacuation procedures and vacated the plant to their safety OPERATIONAL CONTINUITY muster points within 29 seconds.
Two seconds later the major blast Business interruption scenarios resulting from the complete loss of a critical site, occurred causing major damage to the site with widespread flying debris and orfrom the loss of a sole-source supplier: internal fixture and ceiling collapses within the buildings.
As a result of their ACQUISITIONS benchmark evacuation procedures, The impact from two separate acquisition none of our staff suffered injury, nor risk scenarios: and were any injured during the challenging process of recovering the damaged PRODUCT RISKS site over the next three or so weeks, A product risk scenario critical which was achieved largely through product failure.
the leadership of our teams as the An additional situation, where two key risk widespread devastation in Tianjin incidents occur in the same year, was also made external contractors unavailable.
The scenario testing incorporated Continuity plans transferred key realistic assumptions based on our risk production lines that could not be processes and experience of real incidents.
rapidly recovered toan alternative Our risk assessment further took account of global location, with the site mitigating actions which are planned in our team recovering most operations risk management processes to avoid or withintwoweeks and full effective reduce the impact or occurrence of the capacity in a number of days.
Our people, local leadership and The key risk scenario testing conducted has business interruption risk management endorsed management confidence in processes ensured that no customer continuing viability from a risk perspective was materially impacted by this over the three year strategic plan horizon catastrophic full-site interruption event.
and underpins the Board viability assessment and statement in the Directors Report, page 81.
CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 32 GOVERNANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Laird faces the normal business risks including the retention and protection ofour people and continuity of our operations: however, the following summarises the principal risks which are more distinct because of our market, industry, strategy and global footprint.
RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTIVITIES STRATEGIC AND MARKETS Laird operates in market sectors which are characterised by a high Protecting our position by Competition and level of competition between suppliers and which are driven by rapid maintaining and extending a broad market conditions technological change.
Changes in market dynamics could have a customer base and monitoring the materialadverse effect on Lairds financial condition and prospects.
market to support a swift response to market changes Lairds competitive position may suffer were it unable to maintain Developing the business into new customer mindshare in delivering technological innovation in a highly and attractive growth markets in line competitive environment.
with strategic objectives Lairds products and solutions include technologies in which it holds Maintaining a competitive intellectual property rights which may be subject to infringement, manufacturing base counterfeiting or misappropriation.
Claims could be asserted against Differentiating Laird with customers Lairdthat it has infringed intellectual property owned by others and through our focus on innovation, suchclaims might require Laird to incur legal costs or face legal reliable fulfilment and speed to restrictions on selling certain products.
achieve customer mindshare, The loss of a major contract or erosion of business with a key customer, andwhere overall margin objectives whether through competitive action or any change in strategy or can be maintained orderingrequirements from customers, could have a material adverse Contract review and negotiation effect on Lairds financial condition and prospects.
through in-house legal team and external advisers Maturing products in large markets could lead to competitive erosion ofmargins and profits.
Maintaining a robust intellectual property programme to reinforce A highly competitive market environment and structure can drive defence against alleged breaches, pressures for imbalanced contractual terms which could lead to proactively protect existing portfolio significantpenalties and costs if breached.
IP and growing development of products with a higher IP protected content Using a range of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect intellectual property rights Developing the skills, experience and performance of employees and their relationships with customers Introducing innovative new products in a timely manner to meet customerneeds During an economic downturn or delayed recovery, customers may Monitoring of economic and political Macro economic cancel, reduce or postpone anticipated orders, or apply pressure to indicators and political factors pricesand margins, any of which may result in lasting changes in terms Close control and reduction of costs oftrade pricing policies, delivery capabilities and market expectations.
Operational contingency plans Wider political factors including regional tensions and protectionist pressures may impact on operations or markets.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTIVITIES STRATEGIC AND MARKETS While the risk of UK exit from the European Union would have a Monitoring of economic and UK Political risk limitedand manageable impact in Lairds business circumstances, political indicators anewly emergent risk is that developments in UK politics could lead If the likelihood of the risk toagovernment unfavourable to global free trade and enterprise, resulting crystallising rises, investigate viable in changes to regulation and taxation which destroy shareholder value.
options for re-locating the corporate tax domicile Laird has made and is likely to make further strategic acquisitions of Reliance on a comprehensive, Acquisitions complementary businesses, assets and companies with the intention embedded strategic planning ofaccelerating growth and strengthening and developing its market.
process that validates target growth If such acquisitions cannot be successfully integrated and the risks markets and technologies managed, Lairds business, financial condition and the results of its Adherence to a robust M & A operations may be adversely affected.
Integration process tailored to meet overall business and acquisition Laird may also set up operations in new technologies, markets and or objectives geographies which could fail to meet business case expectations leading to lost investment or reduced profits.
Undertaking due diligence using specialist external partners Training and staff retention measures for qualified engineers or other technically qualified personnel and proactive relationship management with customers Obtaining warranties and indemnities from vendors wherepossible While the Laird brand, differentiators and values are key to the delivery Proactive customer communication Brand management of strategic goals, there may be associated risks where new acquisitions, and relationship management which may have strong customer recognition, are being transitioned.
Robust and consistent marketing Planned revenue could be impacted if brand loyalty is not successfully Brand strategy prioritisation within transferred.
acquisition integration plans Poor articulation of the Laird brand and long-term value proposition Professionally informed tostakeholders including customers and investors.
communication strategy to ensure clarity and understanding of Laird brand and value propositions LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 34 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTIVITIES OPERATIONS China operational Laird faces continued pressure on Chinese labour costs, particularly Process improvements to increase withreference to base pay and increasing social costs.
The result of productivity concentration thesepressures may lead to reduced profits or other adverse effects Increased automation onthe business.
Developing options for relocation Laird may encounter difficulty in managing operations due to ofcertain manufacturing operation unfavourable political or economic factors or unexpected legal processes to Western China and or regulatory changes.
If the effects of this instability disrupt other areas Lairds operations in this region, Lairds operating results may be Maintaining professional adverselyaffected.
relationships with authorities Supply chain and raw Lairds ability to deliver according to market demands largely depends on Supplier quality control, vetting and obtaining timely and adequate supplies of components and raw materials.
review materials Developing multi-supplier options Failure in the supply chain could interrupt Lairds product supply, limit where possible sales and increase costs.
Supply chain business contingency The raw materials used include commodities such as copper, plans berylliumcopper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc all of which may be Processes for raw material stock subject to price volatility.
This may impact Lairds operating profits.
management Relationship management with keysuppliers Product risks Lairds reputation and brand value may be adversely affected due to Product and operations quality realor alleged failures in its products and solutions.
control processes Contractual controls to limit liability where possible Proactive customer relationship management Operational continuity One or more of Lairds main factories or sites may suffer major disruption Risk management and recovery such as fire, flooding, pandemic, regulatory action, loss of IT systems plans in place at site, business unit following a cyber incident or similar which may have an adverse effect and corporate functional levels onLairds activities.
Any of the above may prevent Laird from fully Use of expert partners to performing its contractual obligations, potentially resulting in reputational continuously improve site risk damage and lost revenue and profits.
management controls IT security and back-up procedures Flexing production between sites Change Failure to effectively manage a major group-wide change programme Dedicated project leadership and orthe cumulative impact of multiple programmes, could lead to failure resourcing management todeliver strategic plans.
Prioritisation and profiling of key project activities and resource demands Active project governance frameworks and executive oversight of key projects and collective project interactions Executive leadership Failure to recruit or retain critical talent in the Executive leadership Use of high calibre recruitment couldthreaten the delivery of strategy or erode the confidence of partners recruitment keycustomers and stakeholders, negatively impacting revenue, and retention Talent management and succession profitsandmarket valuations.
planning Appropriate Executive reward and incentivisation programmes LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35 RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTIVITIES FINANCE Currency exposures Laird is subject to various financial and fiscal risks by virtue of its global Matching local currency income with operations and customer base.
local currency costs Use of financial instruments to assist in the management of foreign exchange and interest rate risk, principally forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps Changes to taxation rules or interpretations in key or multiple jurisdictions Proactive tax planning and Changes in could lead to unplanned tax liabilities or disputes.
monitoring Taxation Use of specialist advisers Tax stakeholder management Reviews of technical status tax compliance Fraud and corruption A breakdown of fraud or corruption avoidance controls could allow Active financial controls policies amajor fraud or financial ethics incident to occur resulting in losses andprocedures orpenalties.
Ethics policies and compliance monitoring Management and internal audit review Fraud and ethics awareness andtraining CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY An environmental incident such as a fuel leak at a site or a failure to Environmental policies and Environment maintain high standards of environmental control such as control of procedures carbon emissions from operational activities could lead to reputation ISO or EICC quality qualifications damage or failure to meet customer or stakeholder CSR requirements.
Work with specialist environmental agencies such as CDP to develop our environment and emission strategies A health and safety incident or accident could result in harm to someone Active safety policies and Health and Safety and associated regulatory or legal actions.
procedures H and S qualified professional oversight and audit Compliance with external standards such as ISO In common with all global businesses we face complex and differing Robust Corporate Governance Regulatory compliance regulatory rules in all areas of our operations and markets, including framework and leadership ethical, environmental, health and safety, trade compliance, and Implementation of regulatory and employment regulations.
A serious breach by Laird could have an adverse trade compliance policies and effect upon Lairds business and the results of its operations may be procedures adversely affected.
Compliance training to provide oversight and assurance on compliance risks Professional compliance expertise within corporate functions compliance to oversee key compliance risks Compliance monitoring and testing programmes CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 36 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS R N Currently the Board is comprised of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six other Non-Executive Directors, DR MARTIN READ, CBE DAVID LOCKWOOD, OBE all of whom have the CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, MA, DPHIL, FIET BA, FCA, RSA skills and experience Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive David Lockwood joined Laird in July 2012 appropriate for Director with effect from 28 February 2014, andwas appointed Chief Executive with andas Chairman in May 2014.
Martin is also effect from 13 August 2012.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Vice President Global Defence & Security a member of the Remuneration Committee.
atBT Global Services and he has experience Martin is Chairman of the two Government of international operations, gained from his owned companies the Low Carbon Contracts roles at GPT Marconi, BAE Systems, Intense Company and the Electricity Settlements Limited a photonics high-tech start-up Company set up to manage contracts and and Thales Corporation.
David chaired the payments under the electricity market reform Scottish Governments Technology Advisory programme.
He is Chairman of the Group and, in 2005, was the recipient of the Remuneration Consultants Group, the UK Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year Award for Government Senior Salaries Review Body and Technology.
In February 2014, David was aNon-Executive Director of Lloyds of London.
appointed asNon-Executive Chairman of Martin was Chief Executive of international IT Knowledge Transfer Network Ltd, a vehicle services company, Logica, from 1993 to 2007 which was established in April 2014, to and has served as a Non-Executive Director support the work of Innovate UK formerly onthe boards of Invensys, Aegis Group, British the Technology Strategy Board the UKs Airways, Siemens Holdings, Boots, Asda and innovation agency which is sponsored by the the UK Government Efficiency and Reform UK Governments Department of Business, Board.
He led UK Government reviews on back Innovation and Skills BIS.
office operations and IT across the public sector 2009 and management information 2012.
TONY QUINLAN CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, BSC, FCA Tony joined Laird on 1 July 2015 and was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 28 July 2015.
Tony brings a wealth of financial, strategic and listed company experience to the Board.
He was most recently Group Finance Director of Drax Group plc.
Hepreviously worked at Marks & Spencer where he held a number of senior positions within Internal Audit, Corporate Finance, Investor Relations and Financial Control, COMMITTEE KEY including Director of Finance, the deputy to the Group Finance Director.
Tony is also Vice Chairman ofthe Port of London Authority A AUDIT PLA, wherehe chairs the Audit Committee.
R REMUNERATION N NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37 A R A R N PAULA BELL JACK BOYER, OBE SIR CHRISTOPHER HUM, KCMG NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, FCMA, CGMA BA, MSC, MBA MA Paula was appointed as a Non-Executive Jack was appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed in 2006, Sir Christopher is a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Director in May 2013 and is Chairman of member of the Audit, Remuneration and in March 2012 and was Senior Independent theRemuneration Committee.
Sir Christopher Director from 31 August 2013 until 3 March Non-Executive Director of Mitie Group retired as Master of Gonville and Caius 2015.
She is the Chief Financial Officer of plc, where he chairs the Remuneration College, Cambridge in 2012.
He was British John Menzies Plc and prior to this was Group Committee and is a member of the Audit Ambassador to the Peoples Republic of China, Finance Director of Ricardo Plc between and Nomination Committees.
Jack is on the having previously served asHMAmbassador 2006 and 2013.
Paula has extensive strategic board of the Innovate UK Energy Catalyst.
Warsaw and Deputy Under-Secretary of State financial and commercial experience from He sits on the board of the Engineering and for North Asia and thePacific, and earlier large listed global companies, BAA Plc, AWG Physical Sciences Research Council and is Coas Head of the Hong Kong Department of Plc and at Rolls Royce Plc she led growth plans Deputy Chairman of the Advanced Materials theForeign andCommonwealth Office.
into emerging regions through M & A and Leadership Council.
Hepreviously held roles setting up manufacturing plants as Business as Chairman of Ilika plc, CEO of Automotive Development Director for their Transmission Engineering Group TCG and at Goldman Sachs and Distribution business.
Paula is a Fellow of and strategy consultant Bain & Co. the Institute of Management Accountants.
A N A A R MIKE PARKER, CBE NATHALIE RACHOU KJERSTI WIKLUND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, BSC, MBA, FEI, FICHEME MSC, EXEC MBA MA, MSC Mike Parker was appointed as a Non-Executive Nathalie Rachou was appointed to the Board Kjersti Wiklund was appointed as a Director with effect from 3 March 2015 and with effect from 1 January 2016.
Nathalies Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015 and is a succeeded Paula Bell as Senior Independent strong financial experience combined with member of the Audit Committee.
He is also a member of the considerable knowledge on Risk and Audit considerable experience of the international Nomination, Audit and Remuneration and M&A processes area valuable contribution technology sector and global industry.
Mikes main executive career was to the Board.
Nathalie isa Non-Executive Sheis currently Director, Group Technology in the Dow Chemical Company between 1968 Director of Socit Gnrale, where she chairs Operations of Vodafone and previously to 2002 where he worked internationally, the Risk Committee and is amember of the heldaseries of senior global roles including particularly in North America and Asia, rising Audit Committee.
She is also a Non-Executive Chief Operating Officer of VimpelCom Russia, tobecome Chief Executive Officer.
He was Director and member ofthe Audit Committee Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Chief Executive Officer of British Nuclear Fuels of Veolia Environnement and Altran Technology Officer of Kyivstar in Ukraine, from 2003 to 2009 and he served as the SID Technologies.
Nathalie worked for Banque Executive Vice President and Chief Technology on the Board of Invensys Plc from 2006 to Indosuez laterrenamed Crdit Agricole Officer of Digi Telecommunications in Malaysia, 2013.
Mike is currently SID of publicly quoted Indosuez until 1999 when she left to form and Executive Vice President and Chief company PV Crystalox Plc and a Nonher own company, Topiary Finance, which Information Officer at Telenor in Norway.
Executive Director of SNC-Lavalin Inc, a subsequently merged with Rouvier Associs in Sheisa Non-Executive Director of Cxense publicly quoted Canadian company.
She continues to act as Senior Adviser to ASAin Norway and was previously a NonNovember 2014, Mike was awarded the Rouvier Associs.
Executive Director of Fast Search & Transfer recognition of Citizen of Honour for the City ASA in Norway and Telescience Inc in the US.
CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 38 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Corporate governance report is The Board also delegates certain other responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, designed to provide shareholders with an explanation of how the Company has Nomination and Administration Committees the Committees.
The written Terms applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code of Reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website at asrelevant to the Company in 2015. www.
com, from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE General Meeting the AGM.
The Chairman The Directors considered that during of each Committee reports to the Board, the year ended 31 December 2015, the as appropriate, and the minutes of all Company was in compliance with the Committee meetings are circulated to the provisions set out in the Code.
Board, unless it is inappropriate to do so.
The Code is available from the More details about these Committees can be FinancialReporting Councils website at found in this report.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Role of the Board The roles of the Chairman and Chief The Board is appointed by the shareholders Executive are held separately and there who are the owners of the Company.
is a clear written division of responsibility The Boards principal responsibility is to act between the Chairman and the Chief in the best interests of the shareholders, Executive, which has been agreed by as required by the Companies Act 2006. the Board.
The Board establishes the aims and The Chairman is responsible for the objectives for the Company, sets the leadership of the Board and ensuring strategic direction and plans, and the its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is operating budgets which are proposed responsible for the day-to-day management by the Chief Executive, and monitors of the Company and implementation of performance against them.
the strategy and policies adopted by the The Board is also responsible for identifying, Board.
The Chairmans other significant evaluating and monitoring the key risks commitments are detailed in his biography faced by the Company, for exercising on page 36. proper and appropriate corporate Non-Executive Directors governance, for establishing and ensuring Non-Executive Directors constructively the effectiveness of the systems of internal challenge and scrutinise the performance control and for reviewing management ofmanagement and help develop proposals performance.
Through the Chief Executive, on strategy.
The letters of appointment of the Board has regard to the necessary the Non-Executive Directors are available financial and human resources required to from the Company on request and will be meet the Companys objectives.
There is a schedule of key operational Senior Independent Director matters reserved for Board approval.
Mike Parker became the Senior Independent Director the SID of the Company with effect from his appointment to the Board on 3 March 2015.
Mike replaced Paula Bell who was SID throughout 2014 up to 2 March 2015.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39 As well as being available to shareholders, The Board reviewed the membership of its Committees with a view to having a more whose concerns have not been resolved through normal channels or when such focused approach with more specialisation.
This was considered important given the channels would be inappropriate, the SID provides a sounding board for the Chairman growth aspirations of the Company and its international nature and complexity.
and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors, where necessary.
The SID also The Boards Committee Memberships with has responsibility for leading the annual effect from 1 July 2015 are as follows: appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
Audit Committee Composition of the Board Paula Bell Chairman The composition of the Board, as outlined Sir Christopher Hum up to on pages 36 and 37, includes an appropriate 31 December 2015 balance of the skills and experience Mike Parker appropriate for the requirements of the Kjersti Wiklund business.
Further information relating to appointments to the Board and the Boards Nathalie Rachou from 1 January 2016 policy on diversity, including gender, is Remuneration Committee included in the Nomination Committee Jack Boyer Chairman section of this report.
Dr Martin Read During 2015, Tony Quinlan joined the Board Mike Parker Sir Christopher Hum as Chief Financial Officer, and Mike Parker and Kjersti Wiklund as Non-Executive Nomination Committee Directors.
Nathalie Rachou was also Dr Martin Read Chairman appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Mike Parker SID Director with effect from 1 January 2016.
Sir Christopher Hum Their biographical details can be found on pages 36 and 37.
In view of the fact that four new Directors were appointed in 2015, the Board asked Sir Christopher Hum, whose term of appointment came up for renewal on 1 December 2015, to remain on the Board for a further year to maintain a degree of continuity on the Board.
Although Sir Christopher had served nine years as a Director, the Board was satisfied, after a rigorous review, that he remains ofindependent character and judgement.
As a consequence the number of Directors on the Board has been expanded temporarily from 1 January 2016 until 1 December 2016.
The Board also agreed the extension of Paula Bells term of office for a further one year term commencing on2 March 2015.
Jack Boyer has announced that he will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director from the Board after the 2016 AGM.
Steps are being taken to find a replacement.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Attendance at Board meetings and Eight scheduled Board meetings were Committee meetings of theBoard planned and held during the year.
There was full attendance at all meetings The tablebelow sets out the actual number in the year except where indicated below.
of scheduled Board and Committee Where a Director was unable to attend, he meetings and the figures in brackets are was fully briefed prior to the meeting.
the maximum number of meetings the Directors could have attended.
Director Board 9 Audit 5 Remuneration 4 Nomination 4 Dr M Read 9 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 D C Lockwood 9 of 9 1 A J Quinlan 5 of 5 2 J C Silver 3 of 3 3 P Bell 9 of 9 5 of 5 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 J B Boyer 8 of 9 2 of 2 4 of 4 Sir Christopher Hum 9 of 9 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 5 Professor M Kelly 4 of 4 2 of 3 3 of 3 6 M Parker 6 of 7 3 of 4 1 of 2 2 of 2 7 K Wiklund 5 of 5 2 of 2 Notes 1.
Appointed to the Board on 28 July 2015.
Retired from the Board following the AGM on 8 May 2015.
Retired as a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 30 June 2015.
Retired as a member of the Audit Committee on 30 June 2015.
Jack Boyer was unable to attend one unscheduled meeting that was called at short notice to discuss an acquisition.
He was fully briefed prior to this meeting.
Retired from the Board on 30 June 2015.
Appointed to the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 3 March 2015.
Mike Parker was unable to attend one Board, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meeting due to commitments that had been made prior to his appointment as a Director of Laird PLC.
He was fully briefed before these meetings were held.
Appointed to the Board and Audit Committee on 1 July 2015.
Operation of the Board The Board held nine meetings in 2015.
The Board and Committees have There were five Audit Committee meetings, regular scheduled meetings and hold four Remuneration Committee meetings additional meetings as and when required.
and four Nomination Committee meetings The Board meets at least eight times a during the year.
A schedule of meetings and principal at Board and Committee meetings matters to be discussed is normally set out are given inthe table above, and are at least 12 months in advance.
The Board discussed in more detail in the separate makes periodic visits to the Companys Committee sections ofthis report.
During the year under Directors are expected, wherepossible, review, the Board as a whole visited the to attend all Board meetings, relevant Companys facility inSouth Korea and the Committee meetings andthe AGM.
majority of the Non-Executive Directors Whenever a Director is unable to attend a visited the Companys facility in Vietnam.
meeting, the Director, if possible, consults The Chairman and Senior Independent with the Chairman prior to the meeting Director also visited the Companys facilities and is briefed by the Chairman after in Michigan and Ohio.
heads of the business units and other senior executives holding functional responsibilities periodically give presentations at Board meetings.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41 Independence Time commitment Currently the Board comprises a A schedule of meetings and principal Non-Executive Chairman, six other matters to be discussed is normally set Non-Executive Directors and two Executive outat least 12 months in advance, enabling Directors.
The Code requires that at least the Board to assess the expected time half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, commitment.
Furthermore, the letters of should be independent Non-Executive appointment of each Director include an Directors.
This requirement continues to approximate estimate of time required bemet.
The Board considers all of the per annum to cover meeting attendance, Non-Executive Directors to be independent preparation for meetings and overseas of management and in character and visits.
The Board is satisfied that each judgement, and are therefore free from Director is able to devote sufficient time any business or other relationship that tofulfil their duties.
could interfere with the exercise of their Information and support independent judgement.
The Chairman, It is important that the Board should DrMartin Read, was considered be supplied with information in a timely independent in accordance with the Code manner, in a form and of a quality prior to his appointment as Chairman.
appropriate to enable it to discharge its Normally the Chairman and the Nonduties.
Minutes of meetings are circulated Executive Directors meet at least twice to the relevant Committee members prior a year without the Executive Directors to each Committee meeting.
Prior to Board present and the Senior Independent meetings, all Directors receive Board papers Director meets at least annually with which include detailed financial information, theNon-Executive Directors without strategic reports and operational overviews.
Directors may also take independent professional advice where necessary at the Non-Executive Directors do not Companys expense and have access to the participatein any of the Companys share services of the Company Secretary.
or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
Board evaluation An internal Board evaluation was Induction and training completed.
The performance of individual New Directors are provided with an Directors was considered by the Chairman induction process when they take on the in discussion with other Non-Executive role and existing Directors are provided Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors with training as necessary.
This can take considered the performance of the the form of reports and briefings from Chairman, taking into account the views external advisers and senior employees, of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman attendance at seminars and conferences considered the performance of the and bespoke training.
During the year Executive Directors which was also the Board received updates on legislative discussed with the Non-Executive Directors.
developments that impact Corporate Governance in the UK.
In addition, as part Re-election of Directors of the Annual Performance Review, each With the exception of Jack Boyer, who will Director is asked about their individual retire at the 2016 AGM, all of the Directors training needs so that this can be factored will stand for annual re-election at the into forthcoming programmes.
Biographical details of the Directors are included in the Notice of AGM and on pages 36 and 37.
Further information on Board changes during the year is given in the Nomination Committee section of this report and in the Directors Report on page 79.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Internal control Business units and corporate functions Laird PLC is a holding company registered participate in an annual strategic planning in the UK with businesses primarily process to set out strategic objectives and located overseas.
These businesses are identify the related key risk and control organised as subsidiary companies where issues and mitigating actions.
This process the management of these companies are provides the baseline for them to submit appointed to manage within the framework their budgets annually to management established by the Laird Board, as well as to and to Lairds Executive Directors for comply with local statutory and regulatory approval.
In addition, through a risk and requirements.
Overall responsibility for controls assessment process embedded Lairds systems of internal control including in business performance review process, financial, operational and compliance emergent risk and control issues are controls, and reviewing their effectiveness managed transparently.
A risk management lies with the Laird Board, which ensures update, reporting emergent risks and that a review is carried out at least annually any changes to the risk environment, is to assess the adequacy of those systems.
This process Primary responsibility for systems of is supplemented by papers submitted internal control rests with the managers of to the Board by the Executive Directors the subsidiaries.
Laird Executive Directors throughout the year and by meetings from are responsible for implementing Group time to time between the Board and the policy and for monitoring the business unit management of the businesses, some of and divisional performance and reporting which take place at the premises of the to the Board thereon.
The Chief Executive is reviewed at business unit level as well presents the Groups business objectives as by Lairds Finance Department, which which are approved by the Board, and the prepares the consolidation and financial Board also addresses those risks which statements to ensure that the financial affect the Group as a whole.
The Board position and results of the Group are instigates further reports and investigations appropriately reflected.
An ongoing process for identifying, Oversight of the management of risk and evaluating and managing the significant governance is effected through the Risk and risks faced by the Group is in place and Governance Group the RGG.
The RGG is chaired by the Chief Executive and includes complies with the Code and the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer, and is at least annually reviewed by the Board.
This process has been in place for the Chief Strategy & Technology Officer and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
Meetings are usually held at least quarterly with additional ad-hoc meetings for specific The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk risk issues or projects as required.
In 2015, the RGG met six times, including two adof failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Groups assets.
hoc meetings to review risk management plans for two acquisitions, namely LSR These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material Research LLC and the Novero business.
Outcomes, actions and issues from all misstatement or loss.
meetings are reported to the Board as Authorities and delegations are issued part of the Chief Financial Officers report periodically to the managers of subsidiaries at each meeting.
Minutes of the RGGare setting out their responsibilities and circulated to the Board.
These rules require approval for specific transactions and Remuneration Committee call for accurate and relevant financial Information on the Remuneration information to be delivered on a timely Committee is included in the Directors basis.
The ability to identify risk is enhanced Remuneration Report.
by the timely reporting of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43 Relations with shareholders Throughout the year, the Company The Company is committed to increasing participated in shareholder and prospective shareholder value and ensures it shareholder meetings in the UK and communicates its prospects and Europe, with activity mainly centred around achievements to shareholders in a timely key reporting dates, the March Full Year manner and within the limits imposed by Results announcement, July Half Year the Listing Rules made by the Financial announcement and the May and October Conduct Authority.
Regular communication Trading Update dates.
Whilst a programme with shareholders takes place through the of co-ordinated activity is followed Annual Report and Accounts, the Final and throughout the year, where appropriate Interim Results presentation materials and we also respond to ad-hoc requests for other press releases of business significance meetings.
The majority of the meetings throughout the year.
Significant matters were attended by a combination of the relating to the trading or development Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer of the business are communicated to and or the Head of Investor Relations.
the market by way of announcements The Chairman and Senior Independent through a regulatory information service.
Director are also available for meetings with These announcements also appear shareholders in the event that there are on the Companys website, along with any concerns which cannot be addressed other press releases, presentations, through management, or in connection webcasts, informative videos and business with any significant change to the case studies.
Companys strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements.
The Head of Investor Relations, working closely with the Chief Executive and the Wherever possible, the Chairman and Chief Financial Officer on a day-to-day Non-Executive Directors attend results basis, has full responsibility for devising presentations and they welcome the AGM and implementing the Companys Investor as an opportunity to communicate with Communications Plan to service its current both private investors and institutional and prospective shareholders and provide shareholders.
Shareholders are invited to information to financial analysts.
ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the Directors informally after the Written and verbal reports are presented meeting.
The Chairman gives a formal to the Board at each meeting on ongoing report on the Companys progress at the Investor Relations activity and reports from meeting and a copy of his statement is the investor community are fed back on a issued to a regulatory information service regular basis.
and published on the Companys website.
During 2015, there was continued focus All of the Directors attended the AGM in on engaging with Lairds institutional 2015 and the Chairmen of the Remuneration shareholders and private client brokers and Audit Committees were available to to ensure the Companys prospects and answer questions relating to their areas developments were understood and to of responsibility.
The number of proxy emphasise the strategic progress that has votes cast for, against and withheld on the been achieved.
resolutions are reported to the meeting and following the meeting are published on the Companys website.
CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 44 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW OBJECTIVE The Committees main focus is on The Committee leads the process strengthening and balancing the for Board appointments, and makes rangeofskills, experience and diversity recommendations to the Board.
The Committee also considers the Chief Executives reports from time to time During the year, the Committee: on succession planning and reviews the led the process to appoint a new Chief performance of the Chief Executive.
DR MARTIN READ, CBE Financial Officer following Jonathan CHAIRMAN OF THE Silvers retirement atthe 2015 Annual RESPONSIBILITIES NOMINATION COMMITTEE General Meeting the AGM : The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are documented and agreed made recommendations and confirmed by the Board.
The key terms are outlined the appointments of three new below and the full terms of reference Non-Executive Directors: are available on the Companys website, undertook the annual review of the www.
com: ChiefExecutives performance: and responsibility for identifying and carried out a review of its terms nominating, for the approval of the Board, of reference.
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: Particular thought was given to the replacement of Sir Christopher Hum who leading the process for Board completed nine years service as Director appointments and making during the course of 2015.
The Committee recommendations to the Board: was mindful of the fact that four new in consultation with the Chief Executive, Directors had been appointed in 2015 regularly reviewing the structure, size and that it was important to maintain and composition including the balance a degree of continuity on the Board.
of skills, knowledge, independence, After rigorous review, the Committee experience and diversity required of the concluded that Sir Christopher remains Board and making recommendations to of independent character and judgement the Board with regard to any changes: and recommended his re-appointment for another year.
The Committee also assessing the independence of the recommended to the Board the extension Non-Executive Directors: and of Paula Bells appointment as a Nonat least annually, reviewing the Executive Director fora further year.
performance of the Chief Executive.
Looking ahead, the Committee is taking steps to replace Jack Boyer, who will MEMBERSHIP retire as a Non-Executive Director and Since 1 July 2015, the Committee consists the Chairman of the Remuneration ofthe Chairman of the Board and at least Committee following the Companys 2016 two independent Non-Executive Directors.
In keeping with our stated course, During 2015, the Committee was chaired the Committee will focus on finding a by Dr Martin Read.
Up to 30 June 2015, replacement that further strengthens and itcomprised all the Non-Executive balances the skills, experience and diversity Directors.
Since 1 July 2015, the Committee of the Board.
has comprised the Chairman, Sir Christopher Hum and Mike Parker.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45 MEETINGS DIVERSITY The Nomination Committee met four times The Committee believes that diversity during the year.
Details of attendance at of thought and business experience is these meetings can be found on page 40. paramount when consideringthe make-up of the Board.
It is the Companys aim to At the invitation of the Committee, and have the appropriate level of diversity in as appropriate to the matters under the boardroom to reflect the diverse nature discussion, meetings may be attended of the Companys operations and provide by members of the Board and external a broader perspective to decision making advisers.
Minutes arekept by the Company whilst remaining committed to ensuring Secretary of the matters considered thatappointments are ultimately made and decisions taken by the Committee.
onmerit against agreed selection criteria.
Minutes are circulated to the Board, unless it is inappropriate to do so.
The Committee Following the appointment of Kjersti has authority to seek any information it Wiklund on 1 July 2015 and Nathalie Rachou requires from any officer or employee on 1 January 2016, women represent 33% of of the Company or any of its subsidiary Board membership.
The Committee can take It is the Committees policy to consider such independent professional advice, diversitygenerally when making at the expense of the Company, as it appointments to the Board, taking considers necessary.
into account relevant skills, experience, Egon Zehnder was appointed to assist knowledge, gender and ethnicity.
with the process for selecting a new More information on the Companys gender Chief Financial Officer and also with the profile is included in the Corporate Social recruitment of Kjersti Wiklund and Nathalie Responsibility report.
Egon Zehnder will also assist with the process to select a replacement for Jack Boyer.
Apart from Egon Zehnders work on these matters and assisting with the recruitment of other senior executives within the Group, Egon Zehnder has no other connection with the Company.
The selection for the new Chief Financial Officer was led by the Chief Executive and the Chairman, working closely with the previous Chief Financial Officer to ensure asmooth transition.
