52 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REMUNERATION OVERVIEW Our remuneration framework is designed to ensure M&S is run with the skills and expertise necessary to deliver our long-term priorities.
VINDI BANGA CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to The timing of this review was also linked to bonus awards in 2016 and beyond and present our Remuneration Report for our requirement to renew our existing share under any of the Companys executive share 2014 15, my first as the Chairman of the plans, as outlined last year.
The Committee schemes from 2015 onwards.
Details of this Remuneration Committee.
Following the has reviewed the Plan rules and framework, are provided on page 60. new reporting regulations adopted last year, along with changes in market practice and KEY POINTS FOR THE YEAR this report is split into two distinct sections.
Overall, the Although we are not required to include the Committee concluded that while the Salary review policy report approved by shareholders structure of the framework remains Executive director salaries were reviewed last year, the Committee has decided to appropriate, it is time to refresh some and discussed by the Committee during continue to do so in order to maintain full, elements within the Performance Share the year.
The Committee took into account transparent reporting.
For easy reference, Plan in order to provide an even clearer t the salary review applicable for the rest of we have included a summary of the with the businesss current strategic the organisation and directors individual remuneration policy on pages 54 to 60. priorities, following four years of intensive performance when assessing the Information on the policy since its approval investment and transformation.
The Plan appropriateness of any increase.
The last year is shown on pages 60 and 61. will continue to retain the metrics of EPS Committee was also mindful that the and ROCE and their associated weightings executive directors had requested not to Our remuneration framework is designed to of 50% and 20% respectively.
receive an increase last year, despite a 2% support and drive our strategy, and ensure average pay review for the business.
Further, our business is run by high-quality leaders The financial strategic scorecard element the annual salary review date has been with the skills and expertise necessary to will retain targets for International and moved from January to July to t better deliver our long-term business priorities.
com sales as before as we continue to with the annual performance cycle.
In line grow these areas of the business, but will The Committee made good progress with previous years, Marc Bolland has again, now include targets for two key business against the action plan it set itself last year.
at his own request, not received an increase.
priorities of GM gross margin growth and As planned, the Committee reviewed and He has not received a salary increase since the delivery of free cash ow, as set out in retendered the independent external his appointment in 2010.
The highest the Companys key performance indicators.
advisers to the Committee following the increase has been awarded to Steve Rowe While these amendments are within the appointment of Deloitte as the Companys in recognition of his strong performance parameters of the remuneration policy auditor.
After an extensive process, PwC over the period.
However, while there is approved by shareholders at last years was appointed to advise the Committee.
some variation in salary increase across the AGM, we value the views of, and input from, executive directors, the resulting average our shareholders and therefore consulted REMUNERATION REVIEW AND salary increase awarded to the executive with them on the proposed amendments PROPOSED AMENDMENTS directors as a group is in line with the rest and associated targets for the 2015 16 This year, and with PwCs support, we of the organisation and the market median awards.
As a result, we believe the proposed undertook a thorough review of the current for the same period since the last review.
changes and targets are timely and executive remuneration framework and Further details of the directors salary appropriate and will ensure the awards targets to ensure they remained aligned increases are shown on page 63. remain stretching but motivating for the with the strategic business priorities and senior management team.
Our new Chief Finance Offi cer, Helen Weir were balanced against the Company-wide joined the Board on 1 April, after our year remuneration off ering.
The Committee CLAWBACK end on 28March, and was not eligible for was particularly keen to ensure that the In updating the associated plan rules, the this salary review.
We provide full details incentive arrangements remained Committee has also taken the opportunity of her recruitment arrangement and future suffi ciently motivating for management to to introduce clawback in line with updated pay on page73.
deliver while encouraging the behaviours, UK corporate governance guidance.
values and ethics which underpin Fit for the Clawback provisions will apply to any Future and the way we do business at M&S.
53 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 IN THIS SECTION REMUNERATION POLICY p54 REMUNERATION REPORT p62 Executive directors Strategic alignment of pay p62 Performance Share Plan p66 remuneration policy p54 Total single gure remuneration p62 Directors share interests p68-71 Recruitment policy p57 Salary and bene ts p63 Non-executive directors remuneration p74 Termination policy p58 Annual Bonus Scheme p64 Remuneration Committee p75 Non-executive directors remuneration policy p59 Information on remuneration policy since approval p60 Performance-related payments This level of vesting re ects delivery against Together with the rest of the Board, I look The Committee also reviewed the ROCE targets: all other targets were not met.
forward to hearing your views on our performance of both the business and each Further details are shown on page 66. remuneration arrangements and will be director against targets set at the beginning available to answer any questions you of the year for the Annual Bonus Scheme.
SHAREHOLDER CONSULTATION may have at the AGM.
This year, the business met its corporate We remain committed to reporting openly Pro t Before Tax PBT target and a bonus the details of our executive director pay was paid across the organisation.
Following constructive shareholder feedback, we are providing The bonus payments outlined on page 64 further disclosure around our bonus re ect both the delivery against corporate Vindi Banga targets this year.
We will continue to or business area targets and the progress Chairman of the Remuneration Committee maintain a dialogue with investors made by each director against their speci c regarding our disclosures to ensure we individual objectives.
Underlying Group clearly communicate our arrangements PBT at 661.2m was above the minimum as far as possible without it impacting threshold of 650m at which level payments our commerciality.
against financial targets were triggered for directors.
Performance against the Companys overall Plan A targets was also REMUNERATION COMMITTEE taken into consideration by the Committee The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee in determining the resulting outturn for during 2014 15: each director.
The Committee undertook a MEMBER MAXIMUM NUMBER OF % OF rigorous review of the achievement against SINCE POSSIBLE MEETINGS MEETINGS financial and individual objectives to ensure MEETINGS ATTENDED ATTENDED MEMBER the level of bonus payment was appropriate and fair given the overall business 1 September 2011 5 5 100 Vindi Banga performance.
The highest bonus payment Chairman since was made to Steve Rowe, Executive 8 July 2014 Director, Food at c. 60% of maximum bonus 1 Robert Swannell 1 1 100 opportunity re ecting strong performance 1 March 2015 in the Food business.
The other bonus payments range from 18% to around 30% 5 100 Miranda Curtis 1 February 2012 5 of maximum.
The Performance Share Plan awards granted in 2012 were measured for the Jan du Plessis 4 3 75 8 September 2009 three-year period up to 28 March 2015 against challenging Earnings per Share Steven Holliday was the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until his retirement from the Board on 8 July 2014.
EPS, Return on Capital Employed ROCE Although there were no Committee meetings during this time, Steven ensured a smooth handover process and participated and Revenue targets.
As a result of in investor consultations.
performance against these targets, Andy Halford was a member of the Remuneration Committee from 1 May 2014 to 19 June 2014, attending the maximum possible one meeting during this time.
executive directors will receive only 4.7% 1.
Robert Swannell attended Committee meetings by invitation prior to his appointment to the Committee on 1 March 2015. of the original award when it vests in 2015.
GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE
