Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Audit Committee Report Audit Committee members Mark Edwards Alan Coppin Janet Ashdown Tim Pile Role and responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Committee are: to keep under review the Groups financial and other systems and controls and financial reporting procedures: to plan and scope the annual audit and half-yearly audit review, receive audit reports and review financial statements, taking account of accounting policies adopted and applicable reporting requirements: to review the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Mark Edwards advise the Board on whether they give a fair, balanced and understandable explanation of the Companys business and Chairman of the Audit Committee performance over the relevant period: to conduct a detailed review of internal controls and the internalaudit process and report findings at least twice yearly Chairmans introduction tothe Board: Dear Shareholder, to review and update the Companys Risk Register: I am pleased to report to you on the Audit Committees activities to review external auditor independence and audit and non-audit fees and make recommendations regarding audit andobjectives during 2015.
This report, which is part of the DirectorsReport, explains how the Audit Committee has discharged tender and the appointment and remuneration of the auditor: and its responsibilities during 2015, and reflects the recentchanges to to review the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, the Serious reporting under the Code.
I hope you find itusefuland informative.
Concerns Policy and other policies relevant to financial security, The role of the Audit Committee is to oversee financial reporting and compliance and business ethics.
to review the ongoing effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee is the body appointed by the Board with The Committee provides assurance on the Groups risk management responsibility for carrying out the functions required by the Listing processes and assesses information received by the external and Rules DTR 7.1.
The Chairman of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant and the KPMGLLP, who were appointed to carry out the internal audit Board is satisfied he has recent and relevant financial experience as in2015, following their replacement as statutory auditor during required by the Code.
Other members also have relevant financial theyear, conducted 8separate detailed reviews and reported experience.
Their attendance at meetings is shown on page 40. totheCommittee with recommendations, all of which have been During the year, the Audit Committee held 4 formal meetings and implemented or will beimplemented during 2016. there were also meetings between the Audit Committee Chairman, Key areas of focus during the year included the Groups cyber the Finance Director and the external auditor.
security policies and procedures and other processes and procedures The Committees performance was evaluated during 2015 as part of relating to cyber risk and data protection generally.
the Board evaluation process described in the Corporate Governance The Committee has reviewed the Groups Financial Statements section of this Annual Report pages 36 to 41. contained in this Annual Report and, following its review, is satisfied that the Committee has provided assurance to this effect to the Committee Terms of Reference Board that they present a fair, balanced and understandable www.
co. uk documents assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Mark Edwards Audit Committee Chairman Marshalls plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Highlights of 2015 Authorisation controls When reviewing the annual and half-yearly results, the Committee During the year the Group undertook an internal review of exercises its judgement in relation to matters drawn to its attention thedelegation of powers to operational management and the by the Finance Director from the internal audit function, the Risk appropriateness of authorisation limits across all functional areas.
Committee and the Groups external auditor.
The Committee meets TheCommittee noted managements focus in this area and considered the external auditor independently of management, giving the the conclusions of the review.
The Committee is satisfied that robust opportunity to ensure that it has full visibility of matters that have controls are in place that cover delegation of authority procedures been the subject of particular discussions.
The Committee also across the Group.
reports to the Board in relation to the going concern statement and Other matters the viability statement and whether the accounts are fair, balanced Other matters considered by the Audit Committee included the risk and understandable.
management framework and cyber security controls.
The Audit Committee has carried out an assessment of the External audit, auditor independence and objectivity effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a system, covering all material controls including its financial, operational recommendation to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and compliance controls and risk management systems for the year and removal of the external auditor.
It keeps under review the scope to 31 December 2015. and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The Groups current auditor, Deloitte The areas for particular focus in 2015 are summarised below.
LLP, has processes in place designed to maintain independence, Inventory provisioning including regular rotation of the audit partner.
Deloitte LLP was The Committee critically reviewed the carrying value of the Groups appointed in May 2015 to replace KPMG LLP as statutory auditor finished goods inventory, particularly with regard to managements following a tender process and, consequently, the Company has assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against inventory complied with the Competition and Markets Authority's final order obsolescence.
The Company has no contractual The gross levels of finished goods inventory held and the provisions commitment obliging it to select any particular audit firm.
recorded against obsolescence were reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee has adopted policies to safeguard the independence This review was undertaken in the context of current trading and of its external auditor.
Any work awarded to the external auditor theforecast for the next financial year.
In addition, the external witha value of more than 5,000 in aggregate in any financial year, auditor presented its findings with regard to the key audit testing other than an audit, requires the specific approval of the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed the Where the Committee perceives that the independence of the effectiveness of controls in relation to inventory counting procedures auditor could be compromised, the work will not be awarded and the satisfactory adjustment of any stock differences.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and undertook aspecific review of this area.
The Committee concurred non-audit services in 2015 are analysed in Note 3 on page 86, with with managements assessment of the carrying value of Group noamounts paid for non-audit work.
The aggregate amount paid inventories, and noted that there was considerable management toother firms of accountants for non-audit services in the same focus on both the reduction in finished goods inventory and the period was 156,000 2014:195,000. general review of accounting controls within the management of An annual review of external audit effectiveness is undertaken inventory during 2015. bytheCommittee.
Revenue and rebate recognition Risk management The Committee considered and critically reviewed the operating effectiveness of controls surrounding revenue recognition and The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk management and control, and for ensuring that it managements assessment of the appropriate level of provisions torecognise for rebates due to customers.
They are also subject to a regular rolling programme of review, the results of which are periodically In addition, the external auditor presented its findings with regard to reported to the Board.
The Groups Risk Committee, comprising the key audit testing in this area.
The Committee is satisfied with the theExecutive Directors and members of senior management controls and procedures that support the recognition of rebates due withExecutive accountability for particular risk areas, meets at least to customers.
twice yearly to identify, evaluate and consider steps to manage any material risks which might threaten the Groups business objectives.
Marshalls plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Group maintains a written Risk Register that identifies the The Committee has reviewed the current process and has concluded Groups key risk areas, the probability of these risks occurring and that the utilisation of KPMG LLP as independent internal auditor is an theimpact they would have on the Group.
Against each risk, the efficient and effective means of managing the internal audit function.
effectiveness of the controls that exist to manage and, where The Committee will be considering, with KPMG LLP, how this process possible, minimise or eliminate those risks are also listed.
The Risk can be developed further during 2016.
Register process identifies areas for action and independent audit Whistleblowing and bribery assessment in order to test the effectiveness of the Groups risk The Audit Committee monitors any reported incidents under control systems.
Information relating to the management of risks theSerious Concerns Policy our whistleblowing policy, which andany changes to the assessment of key risks isregularly reported isavailable to all employees.
This policy is displayed on operating to the Board, and the Risk Register is updated toreflect changes.
sitenoticeboards and on the Companys intranet, and sets out the Tothe extent that any failings or weaknesses are identified during procedure for employees to raise legitimate concerns about any thereview process, appropriate measures are taken to remedy these.
wrongdoing without fear of criticism, discrimination or reprisal.
During 2015, therewas also a high level review of strategic risk by TheSerious Concerns Policy was reviewed during the year and Non-Executive Directors, which was subsequently integrated into theCommittee was satisfied that arrangements are in place for theoverall RiskRegister.
theproportionate and independent investigation of such matters The Group has an established internal control framework, the and for appropriate follow-up action.
There was 1 matter raised under this policy during 2015 relating to an allegation of bullying keyfeatures of which include clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures and a comprehensive budget and monthly atone of the Groups operating sites, at which there were already steps in place to improve behaviours and employee relations at the reporting system.
The internal control framework governs the internal financial reporting process of the business, with checks time of the allegation.
The allegation was investigated and action taken to address the issues identified, with the assistance of ACAS andbalances built into the system that are designed to reduce thelikelihood of material error orfraud.
Internal controls and audit The Audit Committee also takes responsibility for reviewing The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal thepolicies and procedures adopted by the Company to prevent controls on an ongoing basis.
The process of reviewing and reporting bribery.
The Company is committed to a zero-tolerance position with on the internal control system is carried out by KPMG LLP in their regard to bribery, made explicit through its Anti-Bribery Code and capacity as internal auditor for the Group.
The annual internal audit supporting guidance for its employees, agents and contractors on programme is now derived from a risk-based assessment that takes hospitality and gifts.
The policy and procedures are published on the into account the Risk Register and management input.
This risk-based Company website and displayed on operating site noticeboards.
assessment is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Online training is available to all employees via the Groups internal Thisprocess is overseen by the Finance Director.
KPMG LLP learning zone to reinforce the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, and areindependent from the Companys external auditor and have no classroom-based training sessions are also held throughout the year.
other connection with the Group.
Their work includes regular site To date, 485 employees in decision-making roles with potential visits and internal audit assignments of a financial and systems nature, exposure to bribery risk have completed the training.
There is a including checks against previously completed self-assessment maintained register of employee interests and a gifts and hospitality questionnaires.
The results are reported to the Audit Committee.
The internal audit review programme included a review of the adequacy of the Companys procedures in relation to the prevention The Company operates a self-certification internal control of bribery, and recommendations from the internal audit process processtosupport the internal audit process throughout the have been implemented in 2015, including the establishment of the year.
Theinternal audit programme includes both regular audit Fraud Register.
checksandassignments to look at areas of critical importance.
Theseassignments form part of a much wider programme of The Report of the Audit Committee has been approved by the Board independently audited aspects of the Groups operations.
Any areas and signed on its behalf by: of weakness that are identified through this process prompt a detailed action plan and a follow-up audit check to establish that actions have been completed.
Instances of fraud or attempted fraud if any and preventative action plans are also reported to the Mark Edwards Committee and recorded in a fraud register.
Audit Committee Chairman The Committee is pleased to report that no significant failings or 11 March 2016 weaknesses were identified during the year, and there were no losses identified as a result of fraud.
Marshalls plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
