Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued board of directors Chairman Executive Senior Independent Directors Director Roger Devlin Ralph Findlay Andrew Andrea Peter Dalzell Neil Goulden Chairman Chief Executive officer CEO Chief Financial officer CFO Managing Director Marstons Senior Independent Director Inns and Taverns Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees N N A N R Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Yes No No No Yes Length of service Length of service Length of service Length of service Length of service 2 years 1 month 19 years 6 years 6 months 3 years 7 years 6 months Other appointments Appointed to the Board as Joined the Company in 2002 Joined the Company in 1995 Other appointments Chairman of SIS and Finance Director in 1996 Chairman of The Qualied Chartered Chairman of MIT Porthaven Nursing Homes becoming CEO in 2001 Responsible Gambling Trust Accountant CharitableTrust Independent Non-executive Qualied Chartered Chairman of Afnity Sutton Past experience Past experience Director of the Football Accountant and Treasurer Housing Group Roles held at Guinness Operations Director for Association Other appointments Brewing Worldwide and Marstons Inns and Taverns Past experience Past experience Chair of Council and Bass Brewers Limited Member of The Low Non-executive Director Pro Chancellor at PayCommission ofNational Express and KeeleUniversity Roles at Gala Coral Group, RPSGroup Non-executive Director and Compass Group Plc and Chair of Audit Committee at Chef & Brewer Bovis Homes Group PLC Past experience Roles held at Geest Plc and Bass Plc Skills directly relevant to our business model beer PUBS ROOMS 50 44% 66% 55% 70 55% OF OUR BOARD HAVE 66% OF OUR BOARD HAVE PUBS 44% OF OUR BOARD EXPERIENCE in beer businesses AND BAR EXPERIENCE HAVE EXPERIENCE IN HOTELS AND LODGES 30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Denotes Committee Chairman Non-executive Group Directors Secretar y Nick Backhouse Carolyn Bradley Catherine Glickman Robin Rowland Anne-Marie Brennan Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Group Secretary Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Length of service 11 years A N N N R A N R Qualied Chartered Independent Independent Independent Independent Secretary and Yes Yes Yes Yes CharteredAccountant Length of service Length of service Length of service Length of service 3 years 8 months 1 year 10 months 5 years 1 month Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director at Group HR Director of Executive Chairman of of Guardian Media Group plc Legal and General Group Plc Genus Plc YO!Sushi Limited Fellow of the Institute of Director of The Member of the Institute of Non-executive Director at Chartered Accountants MentoringFoundation Personnel and Development Caff Nero Group Limited and Tortilla Past experience Past experience Past experience Senior management UK Marketing Director Group HR Director at Tesco Past experience positions in the pub, leisure at Tesco Roles held at Restaurant and financial sectors Group Plc and Scottish & Trustee of the Newcastle Plc DrinkAwareTrust other Relevant experience FOOD RETAIL LEISURE 88% 88% 66% of our Board of our Board of our Board PLC OPERATIONAL FINANCE 66% 55% 44% of our Board of our Board of our Board 31 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 corporate governance report continued BOARD AGENDA AND ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Board papers are circulated in advance of each Board or The Board has a forward agenda of scheduled matters for Committee meeting to ensure that Directors have sufficient consideration to ensure sufficient time is devoted to key time to review them before the meeting.
Standing items and business matters at the appropriate time.
The agenda itself is regular reports cover the Groups financial position, risk reviewed on a regular basis and the agenda for each meeting, management and regulatory compliance.
Updates on activities agreed between the Chairman and the CEO, is sufciently across each operating division and performance against exible to accommodate the addition of any specic matters targets are reported to the Board in a monthly summary as required.
Items considered during the period include: Customer Focus and Leadership and Strategy Business Operations People Development Governance Shareholder Focus Annual strategy day Warehouse investment Board and other key Board evaluation report Review of personnel succession results announcements Annual plan Major food and drink People strategy Terms of reference Dividend proposals supplier proposals objectives, progress and membership for and plan all committees Property update and Beer company innovation Employee engagement Fair, balanced and Going concern and viability further investment survey 2014 results understandable review statement review in rooms of Annual Report and Accounts IT strategy Health and safety review Group risks and AGM preparation risk management Financing proposals Corporate and Assessment of Shareholder feedback social responsibility key business and financial controls Pubs branding Annual insurance renewal Regulatory and developments statutory compliance Acquisition of Thwaites Developments in the Pensions triennial beer business Leased estate valuation and scheme accounts Consumer insight BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE We operate Committees of the Board to deal with specic 2015 Strategy Day issues under the Code, each with its own terms of reference On the agenda which are regularly reviewed and updated.
Reports from each Committee can be found on pages 36 to 57.
The table below In addition to regular strategic discussions, the Board holds shows each Directors attendance throughout the year: an annual strategy day offsite.
This enables the Board to Name Board Nomination Audit Remuneration conduct an in-depth review of strategy and its implementation.
Presentations were received from a number of senior Andrew Andrea 9 9 managers enabling Non-executive Directors to engage, Nick Backhouse 9 9 5 5 3 3 challenge, discuss and debate with those in attendance.
Carolyn Bradley 9 9 4 4 Theagenda for the Strategy Day is set out below.
1 Rosalind Cuschieri 4 4 1 1 2 2 Market sentiment and strategic alternatives Peter Dalzell 9 9 Roger Devlin 9 9 5 5 People strategy Ralph Findlay 9 9 3 5 Marketing strategy update 2 Catherine Glickman 6 7 3 4 3 3 Existing strategy and five year financial plan Neil Goulden 9 9 5 5 2 3 5 5 Robin Rowland 9 9 5 5 3 3 5 5 1 Rosalind Cuschieri retired from the Board on 27 January 2015.
2 Catherine Glickman was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2014.
32 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information COMMITMENT 2.
Effectiveness significant commitments of the Directors held outside of BOARD COMPOSITION Marstons are disclosed prior to appointment and on an ongoing At the date of this report, our Board comprised nine Directors.
basis where there are any changes.
During the year Ralph In addition to the Chairman, Roger Devlin, there are five NonFindlay was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Bovis executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The two Homes Group PLC and Chairman of their Audit Committee.
most recent appointments to the Board, Carolyn Bradley The role was discussed with the Board and authorisation was 1 October 2014 and Catherine Glickman 1 December 2014 sought prior to Ralphs acceptance of the position.
have brought with them further diversity to the relevant skills Actual and potential conicts of interest are regularly reviewed.
and experience of the Board.
The Nomination Committee The Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential continues to review Board succession, exploring where conicts of interest and to impose any limits or conditions it sees additional skills and experience could enhance the effectiveness t. All of our Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to of the Board.
Catherine Glickman joined the Remuneration the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and Committee upon her appointment and, during the year, both this is reviewed as part of the annual evaluation process.
Carolyn and Catherine joined the Nomination Committee.
Rosalind Cuschieri retired from the Board in January 2015.
EVALUATION This years annual Board evaluation was carried out internally, We consider all of our Non-executive Directors NEDs to be with the next external evaluation due in 2016.
The Code independent and the charts below portray the balance of the recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board Board as at the date of this report.
and its Committees is conducted annually and that this process is externally facilitated at least every third year.
The last externally facilitated evaluation was carried out in 2013.
1 The evaluation comprised a questionnaire designed to consider 2 the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees by examining 3 the skills, experience and diversity appropriate for the business: how the Board operates and its remit: and where it might 7 improve.
The Chairman held individual meetings with each 5 Director and the Group Secretary, and the Senior Independent Director led a meeting of the Non-executive Directors to consider Chairman Male and evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
After reviewing Non-executive Female the outcomes of the evaluation process the Chairman prepared a Executive summary report that was discussed by the Board.
Agreed action points, together with an update on progress against the action points from the 2013 14 evaluation are shown below.
2014 Board evaluation Progress achieved Summary of key actions summary recommendations agreed following 2015 review Specic topics identied for future Board received presentation outlining More NED attendance at divisional presentations.
Update on progress executive meetings.
against key milestones scheduled for Strengthen process of providing Use of informal meetings for NEDs forthcoming Board meeting.
updates on output of previously received outside the Board timetable.
Presentation on market and consumer Extended duration of the Strategy Day.
backdrop and Companys marketing Increase number of site visits.
Each key area of focus has Future presentation and discussion topics timeline and key measures of success to on forward agenda include: IT investment, enable progress to be tracked.
pricing, rooms and lodges, senior management succession plans.
Updates on progress and output following presentations and proposals now More shareholder and other stakeholder scheduled on forward agenda to give feedback through presentations from Board line of sight.
Two meetings held at managed houses.
Designated mentoring of Executive NEDs have visited other outlets with Directors, to support focus on delivery senior managers.
33 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 corporate governance report continued TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Committee, that each Director continues to make an effective The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring that Directors and valuable contribution and demonstrates commitment to his continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity or her role.
with the Company and he conducted development reviews DIVERSITY POLICY with each Director as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Board, through the CEO, takes overall responsibility for Where specic training needs were identied these have been diversity and equality below Board level.
Through our business incorporated into the Board agenda for 2015 16 and personal we cater for the preferences of many different consumer and development plans.
The Company provides the resources to customer types and therefore it is essential that we consider meet development requirements for individual Directors as diversity when making decisions.
Our Ways of Working are and when required and it will continue to review development shared throughout Marstons: we recruit the best people, initiatives for Directors.
An example during the year was the invest in our people and put people first whether thats the tailored Competition Law refresher training completed by each Marstons team, our customers or our suppliers.
We make individual Director along with other key personnel.
sure we do the right thing.
We have a Whistleblowing Policy Induction programmes are tailored for each individual Director intended to ensure that concerns can be raised without adverse when joining the Board.
Catherine Glickmans comprehensive effect on the individuals career and development at Marstons.
induction programme included scheduled meetings with Further details of Marstons approach to diversity and key HR personnel, an introduction to the Companys succession planning can be found on the website at nancing structure and a comprehensive information pack.
co. uk The information pack covers relevant statutory and regulatory guidance notes including, for example, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companys Share Dealing Policy and Gender diversity guidance on Directors duties, together with internal Company policies, structure charts, matters reserved for the Board Women and Committee terms of reference.
As part of her induction 00 13,399 Men Catherine spent time with each divisional Managing Director 00 6,920 to better understand their area of operations.
This included visits to a number of pubs and a detailed tour around one of the 50 breweries.
Catherine also met with the Companys financial 12 advisers, brokers and Auditors during the year.
6,479 9 38 2 Board meetings were held at a variety of locations during the 7 year including a newly refurbished managed house, a customer Directors Senior Total and a supplier and the Companys financial PR advisers.
managers employees The remaining Board meetings were held in Wolverhampton.
Number of employees at 3 October 2015 Individually, the Non-executive Directors also spent time with senior managers visiting managed and tenanted pubs and attending divisional executive meetings.
Non-executive Directors also meet with their operational counterparts to 3. accountability provide support and counsel.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to engage with employees across the business to FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT enhance their knowledge and understanding of the business.
In accordance with the 2014 Codes requirement that the Board should consider whether the Annual Report and Accounts, The Group Secretary advises the Board on all governance taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, matters.
All Directors have access to her advice and services.
comprehensive reviews are undertaken at regular intervals If necessary, Directors may seek independent professional throughout the year-end process by senior management.
advice at the Companys expense in the performance of The preparation of this document is coordinated by the their duties.
Secretariat team with significant input from the Finance RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS team and Group-wide support from other contributing All Directors offer themselves for re-election at each Annual personnel.
The Board receive drafts of the Annual Report and General Meeting AGM.
Details of each Director serving on Accounts to allow sufficient time to review and provide an the Board at the date of this Report are set out on pages opportunity for challenge and discussion, ahead of approving 30 to 31 and shall be set out to shareholders in the papers the final documents.
In addition, the external Auditors accompanying the re-election resolutions for the AGM.
review the consistency between the narrative reporting and The Board is of the opinion, supported by the Nomination financial disclosures.
34 Number of employees Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information COMPLIANCE The Group Secretary oversees communication with private Marstons Compliance Committee monitors all areas of legal individual shareholders on behalf of the Board.
The Companys compliance across the Group.
The Committee meets quarterly, website is available to all shareholders and provides share and includes representatives from across the business, in order price information, results presentations and announcements, to consider any emerging areas of legislation or challenges to financial calendars and general information on the business.
The Annual Report and Accounts is a key communication tool providing a comprehensive review of the business, details of our RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROLS governance arrangements and annual results.
Information on the Groups risk management framework, systems and internal controls are set out in the Strategic The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to Report on pages 20 to 23. communicate directly with the Board of Directors.
The CEO presents an update on recent trading performance and developments in the business prior to the formal business of 4. remuneration the meeting.
Shareholders are able to ask questions during the Information on the Remuneration Committee, its membership meeting, which is followed by an opportunity to meet with the and activities is given in the Directors Remuneration Report Directors and senior managers of the business on an informal on pages 39 to 57.
The report includes the current Directors basis.
The senior management team attend the AGM and Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the meet with shareholders before and after the meeting.
The report also includes the Annual Report on our Directors attend and the Chairman of the Board and each Remuneration and this is subject to an advisory vote at the Committee are available to answer shareholder questions 2016 AGM.
during the formal business of the meeting.
The voting on all resolutions at the AGM is conducted by way of a poll.
This is to 5. shareholder allow all shareholders, present in person, by proxy or unable to attend, to vote on all resolutions in proportion to their relations shareholding.
The Company will release the results of voting, Engagement with our shareholders is essential to ensure a including proxy votes on each resolution, on its website on the greater understanding of, and confidence in, the medium and next business day at www.
co. uk corporate and longer-term strategy of the Group and in the Boards ability to announce them through an Regulatory News Service.
Details of oversee its implementation.
the 2016 AGM are set out in the separate Notice of Meeting.
The Executive Directors manage an investor relations Analysis of shareholder register by investor type programme involving institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts.
The CEO and CFO meet with private client fund managers in a number of locations on a quarterly basis.
Within the constraints of information already made publicly 9.14% available, matters discussed at these meetings include strategy, performance, management and governance.
31.25% 59.61% The Board considers it important to understand the views of shareholders and issues which concern them.
At least twice each year, it receives written feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders on their meetings with Executive Directors.
Additionally, the Chairman and Senior Independent Institutional Private client fund managers Director make themselves available for meetings with the Private individuals Companys major institutional investors.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY: KEY COMMUNICATIONS CHANNELS Institutional shareholders Private Client Fund Managers Private shareholders and analysts Rolling investor relations programme Quarterly meeting with CEO and CFO Annual General Meeting with full Board and senior management present Bi-annual written feedback received Annual Report and Accounts and website Chairman and Senior Independent Director available to meet with largest shareholders Group Secretary oversees communication on behalf of the Board 35
