Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction We believe that high standards of governance are an essential underpin to sustainable growth and the protection of shareholder value DEAR SHAREHOLDER REMUNERATION I am pleased to present the Boards annual report on corporate The Remuneration Committee has continued to focus on governance.
At Marstons we are continually striving to help strengthening and clarifying the link between rewards our people and our business develop and go from strength to and performance.
The Committee has also reviewed the strength.
We strongly believe that high standards of corporate requirements relating to clawback provisions and updated governance are an essential underpin to sustainable growth the 2014 LTIP and deferred bonus rules to incorporate this and the protection of shareholder value.
This review, together provision to ensure that they remain in line with best practice.
with the reports of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration The Remuneration Committees report is on pages 39 to 57.
Committees, provides an overview of our corporate governance AUDIT practices and summarises our activities in this area during The focus of the Audit Committee during the year has been on the period.
the new requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Code the 2014 Code, the evaluation of the internal audit The Board is keen to review and further develop its function conducted by , and the effectiveness to support the Company in its ambitions.
commencement of the new internal audit co-source provision Details of the outcomes from this years Board evaluation by Grant Thornton.
More details are in the Audit Committee together with progress against last years action points are Report on pages 36 to 37. given on page 33.
Details of each Directors experience and STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE how that contributes to the effectiveness of the Board and the The 2014 Code has applied to the Company during the reporting Company are set out on pages 30 to 31. period under review.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board BOARD AND COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS considers it has fully complied with the main principles of the As previously reported, Catherine Glickman joined the Board Code.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils and the Remuneration Committee on 1 December 2014 and website www.
uk Rosalind Cuschieri retired from the Board following the 2015 AGM.
Catherine Glickman and Carolyn Bradley also joined the Roger Devlin Nomination Committee during the year.
Further details on the Chairman Boards composition are given on page 33.
26 November 2015 Shareholder Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration 1 2 3 4 5 Relations See page 29 See page 33 See page 34 See page 39 See page 35 See page 00 28
