34 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS N R N CC Robert Swannell Chairman Marc Bolland Chief Executive Helen Weir Chief Finance Offi cer Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Executive Director, Marketing & Appointed: Chairman in January Appointed: May 2010 Appointed: April 2015 International 2011, Non-Executive Director in Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: October 2010 Appointed: July 2013 Marc has extensive international Helen is an Accountant, with over 20 Skills, competence and experience: experience in growing global years experience in the finance and Skills, competence and experience: Robert is a Chartered Accountant consumer brands, as well as retail sectors.
She brings substantial Patrick brings over 25 years of strong and a Barrister.
He has extensive signi cant retail expertise from over strategic financial experience, and experience in the consumer goods government and regulatory 25 years in the industry.
He joined a wealth of signi cant retail and industry.
His valuable strategic insight experience and possesses a wealth M&S from Morrisons where, as CEO, consumer experience to the Board.
is supported by his experience in of knowledge of many diff erent he successfully led the development Helen has strong listed company developing and marketing brands business areas, banking and the and implementation of its long-term experience having been group globally, and a broad knowledge of City acquired over a 33-year career strategy, turning around the business.
finance director, executive director, enhancing business performance in investment banking.
He has Since joining M&S, Marc has led the and non-executive director on the and customer experience in a signi cant experience as a director store modernisation programme, Board of a number of major listed multi-channel environment.
Patrick and chairman across various sectors, improved the positioning and companies.
Helen is a Fellow of the played a key role in creating the and his leadership in the area of optimisation of the sub-brands and Chartered Institute of Management new marketing strategy for governance promotes robust debate driven international expansion.
Marc Accountants and was awarded a CBE Womenswear, and continues to lead and drives a culture of openness in continues to work with the Board in for services to Finance in 2008. the transformation of M&Ss in-store the boardroom.
developing and implementing the environment and the publishing Other roles: Non-Executive Director, business strategy to become an strategy for M&S.
In addition Other roles: Chairman of the SAB Miller, Trustee of Marie Curie international, multi-channel retailer.
to his responsibility for Corporate advisory board of the Shareholder Cancer Care.
Strategy and Marketing, Patrick Executive, Trustee of Kew Foundation, Other roles: Non-Executive Director, assumed responsibility for the Advisory Board Member of Sutton The Coca-Cola Company, Honorary International business from July 2014.
Vice President of UNICEF UK and Director of the Consumer Goods Other roles: Non-Executive Director, Forum.
Brown-Forman Inc, Non-Executive Director, Collectively.
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS R N N A A N R A N CC Vindi Banga Senior Independent Alison Brittain Non-Executive Miranda Curtis Non-Executive Martha Lane Fox Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Appointed: Senior Independent Appointed: January 2014 Appointed: February 2012 Appointed: June 2007 Director in March 2015, NonSkills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Executive Director in September 2011 Alison brings comprehensive Mirandas substantial experience Martha brings signi cant experience Skills, competence and experience: financial and commercial experience of the international consumer and from the successful operation of Vindi has extensive consumer brand to the Board, combined with technology sectors, and varied online and customer facing knowledge and global business considerable knowledge of running knowledge of global industry provide businesses.
Martha co-founded experience, acquired over 33 years customer facing retail branch a valuable contribution to the Board.
Europes largest travel and leisure in senior roles within the consumer networks.
She has held a number of During her 20-year career with website lastminute.
His in-depth senior positions in the financial sector Liberty, Miranda led the companys taking it public in 2000 and selling it in knowledge of both UK and particularly in retail, and has valuable investments in digital distribution 2005.
She has extensive knowledge international trade and industry regulatory insight.
Alison has an and content operations across of the online sector, and her valuable provides an invaluable insight into MBA from Cambridge Universitys Continental Europe and Asia-Paci c, input continues to challenge and business and enterprise across the Judge Institute.
in uence the development of our globe.
He has strong experience multi-channel strategy.
In 2013, Other roles: Group Director of Other roles: Chairman of as a board member of other listed Martha was awarded a CBE and Lloyds Banking Groups LBG Retail Waterstones, Non-Executive Director companies, and is the recipient of appointed a crossbench peer in the Division, and Chair of the FCAs of Liberty Global plc, Board Member the Padma Bhushan, one of Indias House of Lords.
She was also the Practitioner Panel.
Alison will be of both the Institute for Government highest civilian honours.
UKs Digital Champion until 2013. leaving LBG in 2015 and will become and the Royal Shakespeare Company, Other roles: Partner at Clayton CEO of Whitbread plc in the early part Deputy Chairman of Garsington Other roles: Chancellor of the Dubilier & Rice, Non-Executive of 2016.
Opera and Chair of African girls Open University, Chair of Go On UK, Director of Thomson Reuters, education charity, Camfed.
MakieLab, Co-founder and Chair of Chairman of the Mauser Group, Lucky Voice, Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Confederation of of the Womens Prize for Fiction, British Industrys CBI Economic Founder of charitable foundation Growth Board, Non-Executive Antigone and Patron of AbilityNet, Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc Reprieve, Camfed and Just for from 1 September 2015, and sits Kids Law.
on the Governing Board of the Indian School of Business.
35 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FIND OUT MORE See p36 for Governance and Board structures See p38-39 for Board activities in 2014 15 See p36 for Board roles and responsibilities BOARD DIVERSITY The Board Diversity Policy was launched in 2012 with the intention of ensuring that diversity, in its broadest sense, remains a central feature of the Board.
The Board continues to take positive steps towards broadening the diversity of both the Board and our senior management.
Our Board Diversity John Dixon Executive Director, Steve Rowe Executive Director, Food Laura Wade-Gery Executive Director, Policy on page 43 sets out our ambitions General Merchandise Multi-channel with regard to diversity and what this Appointed: October 2012 means for our business, customers and Appointed: September 2009 Appointed: July 2011 Skills, competence and experience: stakeholders, as well as the progress Skills, competence and experience: Steve joined M&S in 1989 and Skills, competence and experience: we continue to make against those John joined M&S in 1986 as a progressed through a variety of roles Laura brings considerable retail, ambitions.
management trainee and has worked within store management before e-commerce and customer The tables and graphics below provide a in many areas across the business.
He experience, gained from over 15 years visual outline of our Boards diversity in His senior positions have covered has worked in several senior roles in senior roles in the retail sector.
terms of gender, range of experience and length of tenure.
com, Director of across various areas of the business Laura has been instrumental in the Home and Executive Assistant to including Director of Home, Director improvement and modernisation of the CEO until his appointment to the of Retail, and Director of Retail and our ecommerce and multi-channel GENDER DIVERSITY Board in 2009 as Executive Director E-commerce, before his appointment capabilities, which she continues to of Food.
John returned Food to as Executive Director of Food in lead.
In July 2014, Lauras role was growth by focusing on what M&S October 2012.
Under his leadership, expanded, adding responsibility does best meeting our customers the Food division has continued to for UK stores to provide greater desire for quality and innovation.
achieve strong growth, broadened oversight and a fully integrated EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE GROUP In October 2012 John became its range of quality and innovative approach to M&Ss multi-channel BOARD Executive Director of GM where he products, and maintained high strategy.
MALE MALE MALE has applied the same focus to the customer satisfaction ratings.
67% 57% 62% Other roles: Non-Executive Director products we sell, strengthened FEMALE FEMALE FEMALE of British Land, Trustee of Royal 33% 43% 38% the management team, delivering Opera House Covent Garden Limited, signi cant margin improvement and Member of the Governments Digital returning the division to growth in Q4 Advisory Board, and Trustee of BOARD EXPERIENCE for the first time in four years.
RETAIL CONSUMER GROUP SECRETARY 100% 100% N A N CC FINANCE E-COMMERCE 39% & TECHNOLOGY 46% INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE Andy Halford Non-Executive Richard Solomons Non-Executive Amanda Mellor Group Secretary Director Director and Head of Corporate Governance Appointed: January 2013 Appointed: April 2015 Appointed: July 2009 Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Other roles: Non-Executive Director NON-EXECUTIVE TENURE A Chartered Accountant, Andy Richard brings strong commercial, of Kier Group plc.
has a strong finance background financial, consumer, branding and 0-1 YEAR 14% and signi cant recent and relevant global experience to the Board.
1 DIRECTOR financial experience gained from CFO His broad international retail and 1-3 YEARS 29% positions in global listed companies.
consumer experience, and his 2 DIRECTORS His detailed knowledge of the UK role as a CEO of an international 3-6 YEARS 43% and international consumer market business, provides valuable insight 3 DIRECTORS provides the Board with valuable to the Board.
During his career at 6-9 YEARS 14% strategic insight.
Andy is a member InterContinental Hotels Group IHG, 1 DIRECTOR of the Business Forum on Tax and Richard was integral in shaping and Competitiveness and a Fellow of the implementing IHGs asset-light Institute of Chartered Accountants in strategy, which has helped the KEY TO COMMITTEES England and Wales.
business grow signi cantly since it was formed in 2003, as well as Other roles: Group Finance Director N supporting the return of $10.4 billion Nomination of Standard Chartered plc.
A Audit Other roles: CEO of IHG, Governor of R Remuneration the Aviation Travel Industry Group of CC Committee Chair the World Economic Forum, Member of both the Executive Committee of the World Travel and Tourism Council Full details of each director are and of the Industry Real Estate available on Financing Advisory Council.
com thecompany FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS F I R C & E O T, S M E N A H E M E F T I E M T E T A T I E T E G M L Y E T A M N H O A C M C U I N S U S T I N O G I T H M E T E V D R I T R U A 36 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CONTINUED BOARD OVERVIEW This section looks at our Board members, the role of the Board, its performance and its oversight.
We provide an overview of GROUP the induction programme undertaken by BOARD our two newly appointed directors, highlighting the diff erences between inductions for non-executive and executive directors respectively.
We also outline how our Board contingency plan was tested during the year.
PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE We provide further transparency on activities COMMITTEE BOARD Audit Remuneration Nomination and discussions undertaken during the year by sharing some of the actions arising from the discussions and the progress against them.
We also provide insight relating to director: Independence Maintaining the right EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES balance of independence on the Board: Eff ectiveness The review this year Property Fire, Health Business Customer How We Do was externally facilitated.
We update Board & Safety Continuity Insight Unit Business on the output and the action plan for the year ahead on page 41: and Ongoing development Business training, engagement and mentoring.
ROLE OF THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for ensuring BOARD RESPONSIBILITY leadership through eff ective oversight Responsibility for implementing operational and review.
Supported by its Principal decisions and the day-to-day management Committees Audit, Remuneration, and of the business is delegated to the Chief Nomination the Board sets the strategic Executive and the Executive Board.
The direction and aims to deliver sustainable Management Committee supports the shareholder value over the longer term.
Executive Board by monitoring the development of the Groups workstreams Clear terms of reference outline the full GROUP BOARD against the Groups three-year plan and AUDIT, schedule of matters reserved for the inputting annually into the Groups REMUNERATION, Boards decision and that of its key AND NOMINATION strategic plan.
These, along with the COMMITTEES update the Board at each Group individual roles of the Board members, Board meeting.
can be found in the Groups formal Governance Framework at There is clear delegation and oversight marksandspencer.
from the Executive Board to the Executive Committees outlined in our Governance BOARD MEETINGS Framework at marksandspencer.
com The Board held eight scheduled meetings thecompany, which strengthens decisionduring the year, and individual attendance making across key areas of the business.
is set out on the next page.
Suffi cient time In addition, the Audit Committee receives is provided at the start and end of each a business update at each meeting.
meeting for the Chairman to meet privately with the Senior Independent Director and BOARD COLLABORATION non-executive directors to discuss any The work of the Board complements, in standards and performance across matters arising.
During the year the Board enhances and supports the work of the our business.
Working together, all parts held two meetings away from the offi ce, one Executive Board.
We believe that eff ective of the Board structure conduct robust of which was its annual two-day strategy governance is realised through leadership interrogation of plans and actions, ensuring meeting.
A brief overview of the key areas of and team work.
Collaboration across all high-quality decision-making in all areas discussion, the actions and the outcomes is levels within the Board structure drives of strategy, performance, responsibility provided on the following pages.
a culture of continuous improvement and accountability.
See Board activities on p38-39 C O D E B X C O H E O O B M U W M S I I T W N T E E E E S E S Y E T S I T S U T E I P N N M I I R T S B M O N U O B O P O A E C C R R D T Y 37 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 See Board activities overview on p38-39 See our Board biographies on p34-35 See our Remuneration Report on p52-76 BOARD COMPOSITION, ROLES AND ATTENDANCE EXECUTIVE MAX LINKED TO MAX DIRECTORS ATTENDED POSSIBLE RESPONSIBILITY REMUNERATION CHAIRMAN ATTENDED POSSIBLE RESPONSIBILITY 8 8 Board governance Robert Swannell Strategy & Group Chief Executive and performance, Marc Bolland 8 8 performance and shareholder Chief Finance Offi cer Group Financial engagement.
1 Helen Weir performance NON-EXECUTIVE MAX appointed 1 April 2015 DIRECTORS ATTENDED POSSIBLE RESPONSIBILITY Alan Stewart Vindi Banga 8 8 Independent nonresigned 10 July 2014 3 3 executive directors Alison Brittain 8 8 assess, challenge and Executive Director Marketing & International monitor the executive Miranda Curtis 8 8 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne performance 8 8 directors delivery of Martha Lane Fox 8 8 the strategy within the General Merchandise Boards risk and Executive Director Andy Halford 8 8 8 8 John Dixon performance governance structure.
2 In addition, they review Steven Holliday Food retired 8 July 2014 2 3 the integrity of financial Executive Director 8 8 performance information, devise Steve Rowe 3 Jan du Plessis appropriate succession retired 4 March 2015 6 7 plans, and monitor UK Retail & Multi-channel Executive Director 1 Richard Solomons Board diversity.
8 8 Laura Wade-Gery performance appointed 13 April 2015 This table provides details with regard to meetings held in the 2014 15 financial year.
Both Helen and Richard joined the business in the new financial period, and their attendance will be included in next years Annual Report.
Steven Holliday was unable to attend the meeting on 19 May due to business commitments with National Grid.
Jan du Plessis was unable to attend the meeting on 9 September due to overseas business commitments.
MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS RISK MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT The Board reviews the independence of its discussion.
This year the agenda focused on non-executive directors as part of its annual the Castle Donington distribution centre Protecting the business from operational, Board Eff ectiveness Review.
com, GM, customer engagement, financial and reputational risk is an our property portfolio and International essential part of the Boards role.
As key The Chairman is committed to ensuring the performance.
Progress was reviewed transformational projects came online Board comprises a majority of independent against the three-year plan and the longerthis year, the Board, supported by the non-executive directors who objectively term vision for the future.
Audit Committee, looked to ensure that challenge management, balanced against key financial and operational controls The Board debated the priorities and the need to ensure continuity on the Board.
were robust throughout this change.
the longer-term challenges, identi ed The Board approved the appointment of Progress was assessed and challenges opportunities for improvement and agreed Martha Lane Fox for a third term in May 2013. were managed within the context of the an action plan.
The non-executive directors At the date of publication, Martha will have Boards appetite for risk.
shared their expertise and provided served on the Board for eight years.
Martha independent oversight to the discussion.
The Group Risk Pro le, owned by the continues to receive strong support from Board, is compiled by Group Risk using shareholders as can be seen from the There has also been increased focus on business area risk registers and one-onthe people implementing the plans with voting results of the 2014 AGM.
As Martha one interviews with Board members and has served more than six years with the key skills and competencies improved business unit directors.
Oversight and Company and, as required by the Code, throughout the business.
independence is provided in the process her appointment was again the subject of See People Behind the Plan on p22.
through the Audit Committee, which particular review and scrutiny and it was ensures that the risks included in the agreed that she continues to make a strong Group Risk Pro le continue to re ect the GOVERNANCE IN ACTION independent contribution to the Board.
An Internal the exception of Martha, all continuing nonThe role of the non-executives is not limited Audit plan is then mapped to the Group executive directors have served less than six to Board attendance.
Examples of other Risk Pro le demonstrating where assurance years on the Board.
activities undertaken in the year: is provided over the mitigating activities.
See details and experience of each director Andy Halford: met with the Groceries on p34-35.
STRATEGIC PROGRESS Code Adjudicator, visited Castle Donington, the Mumbai store, and the Hong Kong Progress against the strategy is closely The Board considers that all of the nonSourcing Offi ce and store: and monitored by the Executive Board and executive directors bring strong independent discussed at each Group Board meeting.
Alison Brittain: visited Castle Donington oversight and continue to demonstrate The annual two-day strategy meeting held and undertook a store visit with a multiindependence.
However, the Board recognises away from the offi ce continues to provide channel fashion retail expert from Boston the recommended term within the UK for more relaxed and freeowing Consulting Group.
Corporate Governance Code and is mindful of the need for suitable succession.
See our Risk management and Principal risks on p23-25, and Risk in action on p44-45.
OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE 38 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CONTINUED BOARD ACTIVITIES TOPIC ACTIVITIES DISCUSSION ACTIONS ARISING PROGRESS Discussed the Groups capital Continue to invest for growth.
Higher growth margins and lower Strategy structure and financial strategy, than expected cost growth, delivering Consider most appropriate use for including capital investments stronger cash generation.
increased cash ow now capital and the dividend policy.
Interim dividend increased by 3.2%, with further 7.4% increase in the final dividend.
Reviewed the property strategy Accelerate growth throughout Preferred target store locations including the property plan and UK Simply Food portfolio.
Deliver international presence Accelerated growth in India and against planned objectives.
Acquire, develop and manage the global Improved property asset management property portfolio at optimal value.
Deliver new business unit High level of in-store activity delivered.
Ongoing investigation to ensure Investigate opportunities for optimal balance of in and out of town development in existing stores.
Two-day offsite meeting provided time to: Review logistics agreements to ensure Logistics agreements reviewed alignment with future strategy.
resulting in increased transparency Discuss and review GM and Food strategy.
Consider customer engagement Development opportunities identi ed.
Debate and approve the Companys capital structure and funding plan.
Full evaluation of international presence Review the property portfolio to undertaken.
Greater focus on store improve the quality of, and drive value 102 Plan A commitments to be size, product off ering and availability from, our property assets.
Debate and evaluate International Improve in-store environment and Writedown of assets and closure of poor performance and growth.
Investment Test and review the corporate in agship stores in growth regions.
Plan A 2020 over half of the Review Plan A 2020. commitments achieved or on plan.
Debate, scrutinise and review performance Upgraded the store environment in many against the three-year plan and the of our stores, including new Menswear operating plan.
departments in our top 70 stores, and Review the performance of M&S.
com and refreshed Womenswear departments Castle Donington see Customers on p39.
Reviewed the Group Risk Pro le half Evaluate the completeness and Robust set of Group level risks and Governance yearly, including core internal and appropriateness of the Group Risk Pro le mitigating activities agreed and & risk external risks, those driven by business and identify any additional mitigating monitored.
change and areas of emerging risk.
Progress made in developing our Discussed the UK Corporate Governance Engage with external risk experts to approach to risk appetite.
Code requirements regarding risk appetite.
prepare draft risk appetite statements.
Continue to foster debate on risk appetite.
Reviewed progress against the Review of Board decision-making Progress has been made in addressing 2014 15 Board Action Plan.
some of the underlying infrastructure issues of the business, Board members Discussed the outcome of the Board Review of all management information were contributing well and there is a evaluation process conducted by an and KPIs to improve quality, transparency positive Board ethos.
external facilitator, F on Hague of and consistency of data, and enable Independent Board Evaluation.
Agreed 2015 16 Action Plan with clear monitoring processes over the year.
Discussed the 2015 16 Board Continue to re ne our approach to risk Action Plan.
Plans in place to improve the review andmonitoring of past Board Improve tracking, review and debate decisions, and the quality of on quality of past investments, including supporting information.
Continue to encourage greater interaction with Board members across the business.
Discussed the evolution of Plan A to 102 commitments to be achieved by 2020.
Trust & Plan A 2020 incorporating the values 47 achieved: 9 not achieved.
values of Inspiration, Innovation, Integrity, 5 not started.
and In Touch, and the increased focus on our customers.
Launched Fit for the Future, Engage with employees across the Over 1,300 head offi ce employees took incorporating the new M&S brand and business to increase awareness of the new part in the Fit for the Future focus groups, new values of Inspiration, Innovation, values and provide an opportunity for including all our executive directors.
employees to give their feedback.
The feedback received helped shape the final values.
39 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 See our Board Eff ectiveness Review on p41 BOARD ACTIVITIES CONTINUED TOPIC ACTIVITIES DISCUSSION ACTIONS ARISING PROGRESS Discussed employee engagement Identify improvement opportunities Increased engagement with people Leadership across the business from the results from the results.
& employees of the annual Your Say survey and quarterly Pulse surveys.
Discussed talent and succession, Review the gender diversity policy and 38% of Board members are female.
including gender diversity across performance management processes.
Implemented improved performance management and performance Continue to support executive director management structures to align with management.
our values of Inspiration, Innovation, Integrity, and In Touch.
Continued with successful initiatives including The Leadership Development Service, and mentoring and coaching schemes.
Reviewed the composition Committed to maintaining the right Approved the appointment of a new and succession of the Board balance of skills and experience on Chief Finance Offi cer, Senior Independent and its Committees.
Reviewed ways of working to ensure Introduced more collaborative ways of Discussed organisational culture, greater accountability across the business.
working throughout the Company to structure and process.
speed up decision-making with the launch of Fit for the Future.
Reviewed the GM strategy Continue focus on further product Better buying and supplier models.
Customers and performance and agreed improvement, increased choice and Greater design experience in-house 2015 16 targets.
delivering better product, stronger Strengthen the management team for margin improvements and faster delivery buying and supplier logistics, and increase through the network.
design experience within the business.
Investigate opportunities for innovative Introduction of a new customer customer communication and engagement strategy, to bring a reward programme.
centralised relationship between the business and the customer.
Introduction of the Shareholder Card, in partnership with Equiniti Company registrar.
Discussed the International business, Improve like-for-like performance across Creation of one distinct brand across our including historic and current owned and franchised existing estate.
performance, negative factors Grow the business pro tably through new Improving global brand relevance, impacting the business, cross-culture stores, new countries and new formats.
implemented experienced management engagement with customers, building team, and re-enforced franchise Rede ne ways of working with relationships with key franchise partnerships.
partners, and the vision going forward.
Implement organisational structure with clear accountability to drive the growth in International.
Reviewed the marketing strategy Create one distinct brand across our M&S rebrand, including same branding including the operating model, and various off erings.
for GM and Food TV adverts.
com site optimisation and review Customer satisfaction improved, performance of M&S.
com and the of delivery proposition.
over 7 million registered customers on challenges faced at Castle Donington.
com, strong platform stability, and regular cross-functional meetings with representatives from M&S.
com, GM, and Castle Donington.
Strong engagement with stakeholders Actively support engagement Investor conferences held on M&S.
engagement Fourth annual governance event.
Reviewed shareholder feedback in Focus areas of Chairmans statement Communicate the key topics raised advance of the AGM.
to speci cally address issues raised byshareholders.
Continued discussions regarding Continue discussions with Equiniti to nd Shareholder Card launched in March 2015. the off ering of a wider shareholder a solution to provide rewards re ective of Discussions to extend the M&S reward scheme.
shareholder card off er to bene cial Discuss with nominees a solution to extend shareholders.
initiatives to their bene cial shareholders.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE 40 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CONTINUED DIRECTOR INDUCTION BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW Shortly before the publication of this report, and investor opinion: review of investor The assessment of the Marks & two new directors joined the business: surveys: share register and voting history: Spencer Board was conducted Helen Weir, Chief Finance Offi cer, and key stakeholder relations including according to the guidance in Richard Solomons, Non-Executive Director.
employees, customers, suppliers and service the UK Corporate Governance Both are receiving a tailored induction providers: opinion leaders: an overview of programme led by the Chairman, which our remuneration policy and pensions.
Code and was facilitated by includes time with each of the executive F on Hague of Independent Richards induction as a non-executive was directors, the group secretary, members of supported by one-on-one meetings, and Board Evaluation.
Neither the Management Committee, a wide range aimed to provide a broad learning about F on Hague nor Independent of senior management from across the the business, its operations, its key markets business, and the opportunity to meet Board Evaluation have any other and its risks.
Helens induction was supported by a greater number of one-on-one meetings Helen and Richards induction with the Chairman, the executive and programmes are comprehensive the non-executive directors, but also and both cover: management from Strategic Programmes, The external evaluation Finance, HR including visiting our Company structure and strategy, employee support team, GM including our including: Our history: strategy including of our Board is an overseas sourcing teams, Food, Customer details of all key investment decisions, Insight, Communications and Investor important factor in key people and succession plans: Board Relations including some of our larger procedures including the Governance ensuring we are creating shareholders and our corporate brokers, Framework, Code of Ethics and Behaviours: Store operations including visiting the Board calendar, minutes from previous an open, eff ective Castle Donington facility, Plan A, Health meetings, eff ectiveness reviews and action Board and realising & Safety, Pensions, M&S Bank, Internal plans: nances, performance, operating Audit & Risk, the Company Archive and plans, current KPIs and targets, operational our potential.
overview of all business areas: key relationships, ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN including suppliers and major contracts: Given that the two directors joined the Group Risk Pro le and our approach to risk: business within a short space of time, insight into key audits and areas of focus.
we will take this opportunity to obtain feedback on their experience of the Industry and competitive environment, induction process and review the director including: Customer trends, consumer and induction programme.
Going forward regulatory environment including governance we will also seek feedback from Alison and all relevant consumer and industry Brittain, on her induction and her first year bodies, Corporate Social Responsibility, with the business.
Further information environment and sustainability.
on our induction can be found in the Sentiment and reputation, including: Corporate Governance section of Brand positioning and media pro le: marksandspencer.
marketing campaigns: brand values: analyst SUCCESSION Succession planning and the succession In August 2014, we also announced that pipeline remain a key agenda item for Jan du Plessis would be leaving the business the Board.
Jan had served M&S for six years as a non-executive director.
During the year, our Board contingency plan Having Jan remain with the business until was tested when, shortly after the AGM, March 2015, and Paul cover the Finance role Alan Stewart resigned from the Board.
Given for nine months, allowed the Board to focus Alan had accepted a role with another food suffi cient attention on ensuring the new retailer, the Board felt it necessary for him appointments came with the required to leave the business immediately.
Until a quali cations, experience and skills to meet suitable replacement was found for the the challenges and opportunities ahead.
position, Paul Friston, our then Director of Group Financial Control, was appointed More detail on succession planning can be found on pages 42-43.
Interim Chief Finance Offi cer.
Paul held the position until Helen Weir joined the business on 1 April 2015, at which point Paul took up a new role within the business.
41 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 BOARD REVIEW PROCESS Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 A comprehensive brief was given to the assessment team by the Chairman, Robert Swannell, and Group Secretary, DISCUSSION BRIEFING WITH Amanda Mellor, in December 2014.
The & BOARD COMMITTEE OBSERVATION evaluation team also observed Board and CHAIRS RESULTS committee meetings in December 2014, and !
Copies of all Board REPORTED & ACTION papers were provided to the team for brie ng EVALUATED PLAN AGREED purposes prior to the meeting.
ONE-TO-ONE BOARD In January and February, detailed interviews INTERVIEWS DISCUSSION WITH BOARD were conducted with every Board member.
All participants were interviewed according to a clear agenda, tailored for the Board.
In Note: The above activities were undertaken by F on Hague of Independent Board Evaluation.
addition, the team spoke to the Director of HR, F on Hague also attended the Board discussion.
the Interim Chief Finance Offi cer, Head of Internal Audit & Risk, the Group Secretary, the Companys external remuneration BOARD REVIEW INSIGHTS 2014 15 consultants, PwC, and the Companys lead The ethos and culture of the Board is and the potential changes that should Audit Partner from Deloitte.
positive and remains in line with the last be implemented to improve overall Stage 2 The report was compiled by the independent review in 2012.
A number of these evaluation team based on information and improvements have featured in previous Overall, the Board rated its performance as views supplied by the Board and those years and primarily relate to information acceptable in the areas of governance and interviewed.
All recommendations were context, content and consistency, and compliance, shareholder accountability based on best practice as described in the debate around business and strategic risk.
and relationships, induction, and UK Corporate Governance Code and other These now form the core of the 2015 16 succession planning.
However, in other current corporate governance guidelines.
areas performance was not considered to Stage 3 Draft conclusions were discussed be as strong, and progress had been slow Board Committees Board Committees with the Chairman and subsequently in relation to last years Action Plan.
As a were also reviewed and were all considered discussed with the whole Board at its result, this year members were clear that well run, challenging, structured, trusted meeting in April, with F on Hague present.
there were several key areas that would and eff ective.
Members noted that The conclusions of that discussion were enable the Board to be more eff ective, committees were improved in terms of recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
challenge business performance, and drive quality of information and support from Robert Swannell also received a separate strategic debate.
Feedback from each report with feedback on individual directors.
Committee meeting to the main Board was The Board review was conducted in Following the Board meeting, F on Hague felt to be full and transparent, particularly December 2014 and January 2015 when gave feedback on the Chairman to the Senior in relation to Audit and Remuneration.
M&Ss performance was under particular Independent Director, and to the Committee scrutiny, with operational issues aff ecting Chairmen on the performance of each the Castle Donington distribution centre committee.
The Senior Independent Director and M&S.
Given this context, members also met with the non-executive directors to were particularly open, objective and review the Chairmans performance.
This critical with respect to Board performance review was then shared with the Chairman.
BOARD ACTION PLAN As in previous years, the Boards focus on THE BOARD ACTION PLAN 2015 16 INCLUDES: culture, values and people development Review of Board decision-making Improve tracking, review and debate was felt to be strong.
However, this year it process and debate.
on quality of past investments.
was felt that more could be done to facilitate greater informal engagement Review of all management information Continue to encourage greater between the Board and the broader and KPIs to improve quality and interaction with Board members management team.
consistency of data, and enable clearer across the business.
After a thorough debate of the review with F on Hague present, the Board has agreed Continue to re ne our risk appetite an Action Plan for the year ahead.
This plan statements across the business, focuses on the quality of information to building on the progress delivered support Board discussions, and broadening on risk in 2014 15.
Board debate and scope around risk.
GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS
