Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee members Andrew Allner Chairman Mark Edwards Alan Coppin Tim Pile Janet Ashdown Role and responsibilities The role of the Nomination Committee includes: Board succession planning, including size, composition and balance of skills and experience, giving due weight to the achievement of diversity in its widest sense: recruitment and induction of candidates for appointment totheBoard: Andrew Allner Chairman of the Nomination Committee reviewing individual performance evaluation outcomes for Directors standing for election or re-election in advance oftheAnnual General Meeting: and Chairmans introduction monitoring conflicts, reviewing the Board conflicts policy, maintaining the conflicts register, and considering any newnotifications.
I am pleased to report to shareholders on the main activities of theCommittee and how it has performed its duties during 2015.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Ichair Nomination Committee meetings, but would not do so Board evaluation process in 2015, and the Committee Terms of wherethe Committee was dealing with my own reappointment Reference were also reviewed.
During the year the Nomination Committee held 1 scheduled meeting, and additional meetings and discussions in connection with succession planning and recruitment were held by telephone.
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 40.
Andrew Allner Recruitment and succession planning Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Committee remains committed to achieving diversity initswidest sense in the composition of the Board and senior management.
The Nomination Committees priorities during 2015 included the recruitment of a female Non-Executive Director, anobjective initially identified in 2012 but deferred during the recruitment and appointment of Martyn Coffey in 2013 and Jack Clarke in 2014 as Chief Executive and Finance Director respectively.
The Committee In late 2014, the Committee recommenced its search, working with an external search consultant, Lygon.
Lygon also provided services willbeworking with inrelation to the recruitment of the Executive Directors in 2013 and 2014, but it has no connection with the Company other than the provision of the Board search services described in this report.
management on a high level review of senior management succession planning below Board level during 2016.
Marshalls plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Suitable candidates were sought with Lygons support, following It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors can only hold 1 which a detailed series of meetings and interviews between those external company Non-Executive directorship.
Voluntary service on candidates and members of the Committee took place, resulting in the governing board of a social, trade or charitable organisation is the appointment of Janet Ashdown to the Board on 25 March 2015. also permitted.
Details of the external appointments held by the Janets extensive experience in industry and her knowledge of the Executive Directors are included in the biographical notes on pages building materials sector are valuable additions to the Board, and she 34 and 35. has, since appointment, received full induction training and made There have been no changes to my own other commitments during anumber of site visits to familiarise herself with the business.
the year, which are also listed on page 34.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject Governance toreappointment and the Companys Articles of Association and The Committee has acted in accordance with the principles of the subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal Code in developing and applying its succession plans and policies.
During 2015, the Committee agreed a framework The Committees effectiveness, including the effective application forsuccession planning with the current Non-Executive Directors ofthose principles, is assessed as part of the annual Board evaluation designed to phase future recruitment so that the composition of the process.
The evaluation concluded that the Committee had been Board can be refreshed whilst ensuring continuity.
Under this plan, successful in securing a good mix of skills and experience in the Alan Coppin will retire from the Board following the 2016 Annual composition of the current Board.
The framework for the refreshment General Meeting and Janet Ashdown will take over from Alan Coppin of skills, experience and diversity to support the needs of the as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration business and its stakeholders in the future is transparent and Committee on his retirement.
The Committee will be working with management on a high level review of senior management succession planning below Board level during 2016, focusing on the development of internal talent and potential succession to the Board.
Andrew Allner Reappointment of Directors Chairman Each Non-Executive Director was, on joining, provided with a 11 March 2016 detailed description of his or her role and responsibilities, and received a detailed business induction.
All Directors have an annual one-to-one development review meeting with the Chairman to appraise performance, set personal objectives and discuss any development and training needs to enable them to continue to add value to the Board.
The Committee expects to develop this process during 2016 to include a 360-degree assessment of individual and collective performance with contributions from senior management and other business stakeholders.
Before any Director is proposed for re-election, or has their appointment renewed, the Committee considers the outcome ofthereviews to ensure that the Director continues to be effective anddemonstrates commitment to the role.
The Chairman provides an explanation to shareholders as to why the Director should be re-elected and confirming that a formal performance evaluation hastaken place when the resolution to re-elect is circulated.
Marshalls plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
