Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 audit committee report DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Committee has also considered and discussed a report I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the undertaken by PwC evaluating the internal audit function.
The output from those discussions is a reassurance of the quality of the function currently provided and a programme to Each member of the Committee, all independent Non-executive further develop the internal audit plan, succession planning Directors, contributes their own financial and business and the allocation of additional resource.
Mindful of increasing experience to effectively assess the external and internal audits responsibilities, the Committee has also reviewed its own of the Company and the internal control and risk management meeting agenda to ensure it is allowing sufficient time to focus systems.
Both Neil Goulden and I are considered by the on the issues within its remit and extended the time allocated Board to meet the requirements of the Code as having recent as appropriate.
The Committee members challenge and debate the reports, statements and findings Having reviewed the external audit process, the Committee presented to them.
believes that PwC continue to provide an effective audit service and recommends their re-appointment to shareholders.
A key focus for the Committee this year has been the new As previously reported, the audit partner is next due to rotate requirements of the 2014 Code that now apply to the Company, after the 2017 reporting period and the Company will conduct a particularly the process by which the Directors are able full tender of the external audit at that time.
The Committee will to confirm they have carried out a robust assessment of review and agree a timetable for the tender process during the the principal risks facing the Company and consideration coming financial year.
of the period over which the viability statement will apply.
The Committee has reviewed the assurance process and the risk management framework to ensure that it remains Nick Backhouse appropriate and does provide a robust assessment of those Chairman of the Audit Committee principal risks.
See pages 20 to 23 for more details.
Membership Responsibilities Nick Backhouse Reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements including the Interim Results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
Rosalind Cuschieri Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management system.
until27January2015 Reviewing the Groups systems for detecting fraud, preventing bribery and allowing employees to raise concernsin Neil Goulden a safe and condential manner.
Robin Rowland Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, specically reviewing and approving their fees and the termsof engagement.
Reviewing and monitoring the external Auditors objectivity and independence and the effectiveness of the auditprocess.
Attendees Terms of reference The Corporate Risk Director and external Auditors attend each Full terms of reference of the Committee can be found in the Investors meeting.
section of the Companys website www.
co. uk Other individuals, such as the CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend all or part of the Committees meetings.
36 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information AUDITORS The Corporate Risk Director attends each Committee meeting In assessing the work of the external Auditors, the providing ongoing assurance and regular updates on the Committee was satisfied with the scope of their work and Groups main risks and the scope and findings of internal audit.
their effectiveness, and recommended their re-appointment As part of its remit, the Committee also considered the Annual to the Board.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the Report and Accounts and Interim Results.
In order to provide independence and objectivity of the external Auditors, and the the Committee with the opportunity to review and challenge safeguards to protect it, remain strong noting the following: the integrity of the Companys financial reports, the external Auditors also attend each meeting.
The external Auditors The external Auditors conduct an annual review of their also present their audit strategy, findings and conclusions in independence identifying all services provided to the Group respect of the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Results.
and assessing whether the content and scale of such work is In addition, at least once a year, the external Auditors meet the a threat to their independence.
Committee without any Executive Director present to provide an The Committee accepts that some non-audit work is opportunity for open dialogue and feedback.
most appropriately undertaken by the external Auditors.
The Committee also reviewed a number of standing items The Committees terms of reference set out what is including the Whistleblowing Policy and arrangements permissible and where such work is expected to be in excess thereunder, matters arising from internal audits and of a specified amount, the Chairman of the Audit Committee compliance and legal developments.
Below that amount, the CFO has authority to approve such work once he is satisfied that the SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS Auditors are the most appropriate providers.
The Group In recommending the Interim Results and Annual Report and has used other accounting rms for some non-audit Accounts to the Board for approval, the Committee reviewed work.
In each case, consideration is given to the need for in particular the accounting for and disclosure of the following value for money, experience and objectivity required in the key matters: particular circumstances.
The Committee considered the results of The audit partner is changed at least once every five years the external valuation of the Groups entire property portfolio and a new partner was appointed during the 2012 13 financial undertaken during the year.
The Committee challenged the reporting period.
The audit partner is next due to rotate valuation methodologies adopted and assumptions used, after the 2016 17 financial year when a formal tender will be considering external trends and the performance of the conducted.
Given the length of their tenure, PwC will not be properties, and concluded that the valuation was appropriate.
invited to tender at that time.
The Committee reviewed Fees paid to the external Auditors are disclosed in Note 3 of the Financial Statements managements assessment of each item disclosed as nononpage 83 underlying and satisfied itself that the classication was both consistent with prior years and appropriate.
In reaching this KEY ACTIViTIES DURING THE REPORTING YEAR conclusion the Committee took note of the quality of earnings and, in particular, the threshold for property-related matters Considering the implications of the new requirements to be treated as non-underlying.
Reviewing the main corporate risks and the outcomes Acquisition of the beer business of Daniel Thwaites PLC.
from testing the systems and processes for managing and The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the mitigating those risks.
The Committee has satisfied itself accounting for this acquisition, including the assumptions that the Risk Management Framework provides sufficient made in valuing the acquired beer brands.
was satisfied that the methodology adopted and the Drafting a viability statement that assesses the prospects judgements made were suitable.
of the Group over an appropriate period.
The Committee considered that the Groups existing five year financial Uncertain tax positions.
Having considered the Groups planning horizon makes that time period most appropriate.
outstanding tax positions where settlement is uncertain, and having considered the risks relating to each of the Assessing the evaluation of the Internal Audit function that various items, the Committee concurred with managements found the overall function to be sound and efficient but identied opportunities for improvement through better treatment and disclosure.
The Committee noted that the use of technology, audit plan development and succession potential benefit in respect of the majority of positions has not planning.
An action plan and timeline for implementing been recognised.
improvements has been agreed with the Corporate Risk Director.
The Committee will track progress over the coming reportingperiod.
