77 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOVERNANCE PENSIONS GOVERNANCE The Group operates a fide ned bene t The Trustee Board has a business plan The Scheme is a signatory to the UN pension scheme the Scheme for against which progress is measured on an Principles for Responsible Investment and employees with an appointment date ongoing basis in a similar approach to the the Trustee has partnered with a specialist prior to 1 April 2002.
There is also an annual Board engagement service, Hermes Equity Eff ectiveness Review and both the Trustee Ownership Services EOS, to exercise its The results of the triennial actuarial Board and the Investment Committee global equity voting rights in accordance valuation of the Scheme as at 31 March 2012 hold annual strategy days which help drive with a detailed Trustee policy, which revealed a fide cit of 290m.
This represents the long-term agenda and the business addresses a range of governance, social a substantial reduction in fide cit from 1.3bn plan priorities.
The next valuation is enhanced the Trustees stewardship and due as at 31 March 2015.
Funding progress Each Trustee Board director has an governance oversight of investee is closely monitored and the investment individual training plan, which is based on companies by engaging with companies, derisking journey has continued since the the Pension Regulators Trustee Knowledge ona global basis, where management is last valuation.
and Understanding requirements and considered not to be acting in the best tailored to address any skill gaps and The assets of the pension scheme, which are long-term interests of investors.
The majority of held under trust separately from those of results of these voting and engagement the Trustee Board members hold the the Group, are managed by the Board of the activities are published quarterly on the Pensions Management Institute Award Pension Trust Trustee Board.
The Trustee M&S Pension Schemes website.
Board comprises four company nominated is also a signatory to the Financial Reporting directors, including the Chairman, Graham All advisers, investment managers and Councils UK Stewardship Code.
Oakley: three member nominated directors suppliers are appointed through a rigorous and two independent directors.
They are monitored via are appointed for a five-year term and quarterly reports and periodic meetings may stand for a second term.
The Trustee and there is also a rolling programme of Board operates three main committees: both informal and formal adviser reviews.
Management and Governance, Investment, In addition to six monthly reports from EY and Actuarial Valuation, which has been as covenant adviser, the Trustee Board convened earlier this year in preparation also receives presentations from the Chief for the 2015 valuation.
Finance Offi cer after the Year and Half Year results.
GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE
