Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder, This Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Reports ofthe Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on pages 36 to 65, explains how Marshalls governance framework works and how we apply the principles of business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all our activities.
As a Board, we recognise that weare accountable to shareholders for good corporate governance, and we seek to promote consistently high standards of governance throughout the Group which are recognised and understood by all.
Good governance involves good and effective leadership, robustsystems and processes that are regularly tested, and a good understanding of risk and risk appetite.
The Board seeks to add valuethrough constructive dialogue and challenge, engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders, and with a strong focus onthe strategic agenda.
This year, the Board has set aside additional time for risk review and for consideration of our key strategic objectives, which I have commented on in my Chairmans Statement.
Group strategy is outlined on pages 16 and 17 of the Strategic Report.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity in its composition, and, having recruited Janet Ashdown in 2015, we have a clear succession Andrew Allner plan aimed at refreshing and extending the range of skills, experience Chairman and diversity on the Board in future years.
Our progress in this area is highlighted in the Nomination Committee Report.
This Corporate Governance Statement, which is part of the Directors Report, has been prepared in accordance with the principles of theUK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 the Code, which the Board fully supports.
We consider that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year in all material respects.
I can also confirm that inthe opinion of the Directors these Annual Financial Statements present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and 44 Statement of Directors Responsibilities pages 44 45 performance, business model and strategy.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement of Directors 46 Remuneration CommitteeReport pages 46 60 Responsibilities and the Auditors Report on pages 44 to 45 and 66to69 respectively.
61 Audit CommitteeReport pages 61 63 Andrew Allner Chairman Marshalls plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, Role of the Board The Board currently comprises an Independent Non-Executive Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 61 to 63 provides details of how the Board applies Chairman, 4 Non-Executive Directors and 2 Executive Directorswho are equally responsible for the proper stewardship andleadership the Code in relation to financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Nomination Committee Report on pages 42 and ofthe Company.
Their biographical details are onpages34 and 35.
43 explains how Board and senior management succession planning Among the written Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, and Board development are being addressed.
The Remuneration Report which is reviewed annually, are: on pages 46 to 60 gives details of Executive Directors remuneration approving and monitoring progress of strategy, business plans and policy.
Other Board Committees are established periodically for and budgets: particular purposes.
For example, during the year, Board Committees were established to approve the grant ofSharesave options, dividend approving any changes to capital, constitution or payments and the preliminary and half-yearly results.
corporatestructure: Day-to-day management and the implementation of strategies approving the annual and half-yearly accounts, and the approval agreed by the Board are delegated to the Executive Directors.
The and monitoring of the internal financial control system, risk Groups reporting structure below Board level is designed so that management, health and safety and anti-bribery policies alldecisions are made by the most appropriate people in a timely andprocedures: manner.
Management teams report to members of the Executive Board appointments and succession planning, and setting terms Committee, which currently consists of 7 senior managers, including of reference for Board Committees: the 2 Executive Directors.
The Board receives regular updates from this Committee in relation to business issues and developments.
approving transactions of significant value or major strategic These policies and procedures collectively enable the Board to make importance: and informed decisions on a range of key issues including strategy and remuneration matters, including major changes to pension risk management.
The interaction between these bodies is illustrated schemes, the introduction of share and incentive schemes, in the chart below.
andthe general framework of remuneration.
Interaction between Board andmanagementbodies Audit Committee Board Nomination Committee Group corporate support Remuneration Executive Committee Directors Operational andfunctional management Executive Committee Chairman and CEO Terms of Reference Committee Terms of Reference www.
co. uk Marshalls plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Board composition, commitment and election NonExecutive Directors ofDirectors There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board andChief Executive, each of whom has annually reviewed written appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board and sets its Webelieveour Board is of sufficient size and has an appropriate agenda, ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all balance of skills and experience to meet the needs of the business.
agenda items, in particular strategic issues, making sure all Directors, Individual Director evaluations, succession planning and the work particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to contribute, and ofthe Nomination Committee are commented on further in the maintaining a constructive relationship between the Executive and Nomination Committee Report.
The Chief Executive has responsibility On appointment, Board members, in particular the Chairman and for all operational matters which include the implementation of theNon-Executive Directors, disclose their other commitments and strategy and policies approved by the Board.
agree to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their The Senior Independent Director, who also has written Terms of duties effectively and ensure that these other commitments do not Reference, is responsible for providing a sounding board forthe affect their contribution.
The current Board commitments of the Chairman and is an intermediary for other Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman and of the remaining members of the Board are shown on He is available to shareholders if they have concerns whichare not pages 34 and 35.
Any conflicts of interest are dealt with in accordance resolved through the normal channels of contact.
with the Board conflicts procedures.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were independent The Companys Articles of Association contain powers of removal, on appointment, and the Board considers each of the Non-Executive appointment, election and re-election of Directors and provide that Directors to be independent in character and judgement in accordance at least one third of the Board must retire at each Annual General with the principles of the Code.
Meeting and each Director must retire by rotation every 3 years.
Inpractice, the Company requires all Non-Executive Directors and At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting with the Executive Directors to stand for re-election at each Annual General Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being Meeting so, with the exception of Alan Coppin who is retiring, all will present.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet annually without the stand for re-election or election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Chairman being present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Jack Clarke, who joined the Board in October 2014, and Janet Ashdown, Directors are able to ensure that any concerns they raise about who joined the Board in March 2015, were each elected at the Annual therunning of the Company or a proposed action are recorded General Meeting in May 2015.
The terms of appointment of the current inthe Board minutes.
If a Non-Executive Director did have any such Directors are reported on page 60 and the Directors biographical concerns on resignation the Chairman would invite that Director details on pages 34 and 35 show their length of service on the Board.
toprovide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
Board induction, development and support Conflicts of interest New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining The Board has adopted procedures for the authorisation of existing the Board.
There is an induction pack for new Directors incorporating situations and for considering and authorising where appropriate the Companys constitutional and governance documents, Group new situations which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
These policies and other key information.
Directors receive training on the arerecorded in a Conflicts Register, reviewed by the Nomination use of our electronic Board packs, and other tailored training may be Committee at least annually.
The Nomination Committee has arranged to meet individual needs, for example to refresh knowledge delegated authority to make recommendations on any situation of the Listing Rules and regulatory compliance.
Typically, a new notified to the Board in future.
Currently, the only situations Director will meet the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors authorised are the holding by Directors of directorships or similar in one-on-one sessions: he or she will have meetings with key offices with companies or organisations not connected with the management, briefings with external advisers and shareholders, Company where the Board has not identified any actual conflict anda programme of site visits will be arranged at which the Director ofinterest.
The Board has reviewed the procedures and is satisfied meets site-based staff to gain a full understanding of the business.
that they are operating effectively.
Marshalls plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Training is also built in to the annual Board programme, which seeks Indemnities and insurance to incorporate a range of in-depth topics of particular relevance The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance tothe business.
Directors are expected to attend external courses cover to cover legal proceedings against its Directors and Officers and seminars as appropriate to maintain and develop their Board acting in that capacity.
The Group has also granted indemnities to competencies.
During 2015, there were Board briefings relating to itsDirectors to the extent permitted by law which are qualifying health and safety and changes to financial reporting and corporate third-party indemnities within the meaning of Section 236 of the governance.
The Board also received senior management presentations Companies Act 2006, and these remained in force during the year in relation to innovation, manufacturing operations and the Groups inrelation to certain losses and liabilities that the Directors may incur marketing strategy, and there were individual meetings between to third parties in the course of action as Directors or employees of Non-Executive Directors and senior managers relating to areas of the Company, any subsidiary or associated company, or as a Director particular interest.
Training needs are identified through the Board of the pension scheme trustee board.
Neither the liability insurance evaluation process and through individual reviews between the nor the indemnities provide cover in the event of proven fraudulent Directors and the Chairman.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Board evaluation Secretary and are entitled to rely on the impartial and independent The Company carries out a full evaluation of Board performance nature of that advice and those services.
The Company Secretary andthat of its 3 principal Committees annually.
The 2015 evaluation isresponsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied was conducted in a similar way to previous years, using a detailed withand, through the Chairman, advises the Board on corporate questionnaire, and one-to-one confidential discussions between governance matters.
Both the appointment and removal of the each of the Directors and the Company Secretary.
The questionnaire Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
referenced current guidance on Board effectiveness published by the Financial Reporting Council and other external investor bodies, such The Board has an approved procedure for all Directors to take as the ABI, the Investment Association and NAPF, as well as the Code.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Board It was designed to stimulate thought and discussion rather than to Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their deliver scores, and included questions about the effectiveness of duties, including the option to appoint external advisers when they Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and the performance of the deem it appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director separately reviewed the Chairmans performance with other Non-Executive Directors.
The results of the evaluation were reviewed by the Chairman and the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board.
All Directors receive training as partof the annual Board programme, which seeks to incorporate a range of in-depth topics of particular relevance to the business.
Directors are also expected to attend external courses and seminars as appropriate to maintain and develop their Board competencies.
Marshalls plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Board evaluation continued Board attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination The Board also reviewed the priorities identified for 2015 from the Board Committee Committee Committee previous 2014 evaluation process.
These included deeper debate on Andrew Allner strategic issues and the strategic objectives of the Group, increasing Non-Executive 7 7 4 4 1 1 focus on dynamic risk reporting, increasing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors to meet senior management below Board Janet Ashdown 5 5 3 3 2 2 level, recruiting a female Non-Executive Director and developing Jack Clarke 7 7 opportunities for contact between the Chairman and shareholders.
Martyn Coffey 7 7 Good progress against all of these priorities was made during the year.
Alan Coppin The key themes emerging from the 2015 evaluation have been applied Non-Executive 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 in developing specific Board objectives for 2016.
They include: Mark Edwards extending the strategy debate with an externally facilitated Non-Executive 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 Board strategy day to focus on long-term vision: Tim Pile putting more structure around Board development and Non-Executive 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 succession planning, including personal development plans for each Director and individual appraisal and development work at Janet Ashdown joined the Board in March 2015 and has attended Board and senior management level: allmeetings held since the date of her appointment.
In 2016 there developing risk reporting and best practice within the business are7 Board, 4 Audit Committee, 4 Remuneration Committee and on the management of risk: 1Nomination Committee meetings scheduled, with 2 additional days set aside for strategy.
Board members are expected to participate improving visibility of risk assessment at the early stages in site visits, and are invited to other events such as the Groups ofproject evaluation: and annual management conference.
raising the profile of people related issues generally at Board Performance reporting and Board information level, and adding HR related KPIs to the regular Board reports.
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review process, The Board believes that the current evaluation process works including detailed annual budgets, business plans and regular extremely well.
All Directors take the opportunity to respond fully forecasting.
There is a range of performance indicators which are and frankly to the questionnaire, which is thorough and robust, with tracked by management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, as a genuine desire to enhance overall Board performance, and the appropriate, and addressed through a programme of operational process contains sufficient objectivity through the confidentiality of meetings and action plans.
All Directors receive regular and timely individual responses to ensure that challenge is acknowledged and information to enable them to perform their duties, including acted upon.
The Board considered whether an external evaluation information on the Groups operational and financial performance, should be carried out in 2015, and concluded that in view of Board customer service, health and safety performance and forward trends.
changes and the positive impact of the established evaluation The Board reviews at each regular Board meeting the monthly process, an internally led review remained appropriate for 2015. financial results, taking account of performance indicators and the However, recognising the potential benefit of a periodic external detailed annual business plan and budget.
The Board also considers review, the Board plans to commission an external evaluation during forward trends and performance against other key indicators, 2016 using an external facilitator, who will be identified in next years including areas where performance departs from forecasts, and Annual Report.
The Board reviews and discusses medium and long-term strategy on a regular basis and meets at least annually Board meetings with the Executive Committee to review strategy and also holds There were 7 regular Board meetings scheduled during 2015, separate meetings with individual members of senior management 4meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and to update the Board on business and strategic issues.
In this way, the 1Nomination Committee meeting.
Additional meetings were Board assesses the prospects of the Group using all the information heldduring the year for other specific purposes.
Non-Executive at its disposal, and considering historic performance, forecast Directors also attended site visits.
performance for the current year, and longer-term forecasts over the The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are usually invited 3 5 year business planning cycle as appropriate.
In approving these toattend Audit Committee meetings, although the Audit Committee accounts the Board has considered these matters in detail.
The Board also meets the auditor without any Executive Director being present.
has a reasonable expectation that the Group is able to continue in The Chief Executive is invited to attend Remuneration Committee operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least the next meetings where appropriate.
The Company Secretary is also Secretary 12 months.
to the Board Committees and attends meetings for this purpose.
Marshalls plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Risk management and internal control Annual General Meeting The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining the nature The Notice of Annual General Meeting is dispatched to shareholders, and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its together with explanatory notes or a circular on items of special strategic objectives, and for the Groups system of internal control.
business, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
It is the The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each risk management and internal controls systems, including financial, substantially separate issue, including a resolution relating to the operational and compliance controls.
The Strategic Report comments Report and Accounts, and to put all resolutions to an electronic poll in detail pages 20 to 23 on the nature of the principal risks facing at the Annual General Meeting.
All Directors normally attend the the Group, in particular those that would threaten our business meeting, including the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and model, future performance, solvency or liquidity and the measures Nomination Committees, who are available to answer questions.
In conducting its review, the Board has TheBoard welcomes questions from shareholders who have an included arobust assessment of these risks.
The Audit Committee opportunity to raise issues informally or formally before or at the Report onpages 61 to 63 describes the internal control system and Annual General Meeting.
The Board acknowledges that For each resolution the proxy appointment forms provide such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote either for or offailure to achieve business objectives and can only provide against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material any announcement of the results of a vote make it clear that a vote mis-statementor loss.
withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation Relations with shareholders of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
The Board places great emphasis on good communications with All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director meet Information on the number of shares represented by proxy, the proxy regularly with major shareholders to discuss the Groups votes for and against each resolution, and the number of shares in performance, strategic issues and shareholder investment objectives, respect of which the vote was withheld for each resolution, together and also periodically arrange site visits for investors.
Reports of these with the voting result, are given at the meeting and made available meetings and any shareholder communications during the year are on the Companys website.
During 2015, 83 such meetings were held, at which at least 46 institutional shareholders were represented.
The Board also regularly receives copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
The Chairman is available to meet major shareholders on Andrew Allner request to discuss governance and strategy.
The Senior Independent Chairman Director is also available to meet shareholders separately if requested.
11 March 2016 When appropriate, the Non-Executive Directors attend meetings or site visits with major shareholders and would be available to meet major shareholders if a meeting were requested.
There is a regular reporting and announcement schedule to ensure that matters of importance affecting the Group are communicated to investors, and the Annual and Half-yearly Reports, together with the Marshalls website, are substantial means of communication with all shareholders during the year.
Marshalls plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
