44 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY RISK IN ACTION RISK AND THE ROLE OF INTERNAL AUDIT Internal Audit & Risk comprises both the new stores proposals, to the formal postthe timeliness with which products are Group Risk function and Internal Audit.
investment reviews that measure actual launched online.
The audit recommended Group Risk facilitates and manages the risk performance against initial estimates.
clearer fide nition of roles and process that is ultimately owned by the The audit highlighted an opportunity to responsibilities between the GM teams Group Board.
Internal Audit, accountable improve the quality and consistency of data developing and buying the products, and to the Audit Committee, uses a risk-based supporting these initial estimates prepared the M&S.
com team managing the website approach to provide independent by the in-country teams, including greater content, and a more structured critical assurance over the adequacy and alignment with the process for UK stores.
path for product launches online.
eff ectiveness of the control environment, This would support better decision-making including controls related to key risks and enable more eff ective comparison of RISK: IT CHANGE on the Group Risk Pro le.
The audit also In 2014 15 new agreements were actions from all of our audits are tracked recommended more robust tracking of implemented with a number of third-party to completion and the status of these actions agreed at the post-investment IT service providers, covering areas such as actions is reported to the Audit Committee reviews through to their completion, to Infrastructure and Application Support to ensure that the risks identi ed are drive pro tability.
This will, in turn, management of our IT service providers is further mitigate the risks included in our RISK: GM CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT a key element of managing IT change risk, Group Risk Pro le.
The continuous improvement of our ensuring, for example, that IT changes customers online experience is an are executed in line with M&S IT policies.
The following examples illustrate how important part of driving customer Internal Audit conducted a review to assess Internal Audit supports the business engagement.
com the eff ectiveness of IT service provider through driving improvements to our website launch, Internal Audit reviewed the management processes.
The audit provided control environment and adding value process to maintain product content online, assurance that signi cant focus had been in core business areas.
including narrative product descriptions, placed on the successful implementation photographic images, and the navigation of the new agreements.
Atthe time of the RISK: INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION paths supporting customer searches.
audit there was further work required to In support of the Groups international Our review con rmed that robust review clearly fide ne vendor management roles growth plans, Internal Audit reviewed the mechanisms are in place to minimise the and responsibilities and to implement process to identify and approve new store risk of errors or omissions in product monitoring against all contractual service locations, with a focus on Asia.
The audit information on the website.
However, levels, both of which have subsequently con rmed that we have a well fide ned in instances where data is missing or been addressed.
governance structure in place through the incorrect, delays in resolution can impact Property Board, from the review of initial RISK INTERDEPENDENCY We recognise that there is signi cant The highlighted risks illustrate potential that they trust us to do the right thing.
interdependent risk scenarios: By maintaining these high standards of This diagram, based on our current Group food safety and integrity, we continue to The success of our business is highly 3 Risk Pro le, highlights how changes to one stand out from our competitors.
in uenced by our ability to retain quality risk could impact on those connected to it, 10 individuals.
The loss of key product 1 Strong GM customer engagement is and therefore on the Group Risk Pro le as a developers would impact our ability to in uenced by our ability to maximise whole.
By understanding the relationship provide a point of diff erence against our product availability and provide customers between our key risks, if they were to competitors in terms of quality, value and with an effi cient and reliable delivery materialise, we are better placed to ensure 3 innovation, whilst maintaining expertise 12 proposition.
The robustness of the that we are managing them appropriately in our Food technology team enables us to online business 7 will also impact this and to understand the entirety of our maintain high standards of food safety and supply chain and logistics network, aswell risk exposure.
integrity across our products and supply as having a direct in uence on customer chain in an increasingly challenging engagement through the provision of a environment 2.
Our customers tell us reliable online experience.
45 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 RISK APPETITE This year, we have placed signi cant focus We have covered a wide range of risks from there may be merit in operating outside on developing our approach to risk appetite GM ethical sourcing and food safety and of these risk parameters but proposed in line with the UK Corporate Governance integrity, through to investment decisions exceptions will need to be escalated to Code.
By expressing the types and amount and business resilience.
Given the varied senior management for debate and of risk we are willing to take or accept to nature and diversity of such risks, there is no approval before activities commence, achieve our plan, we aim to support one size ts all approach to establishing risk ensuring that appropriate mitigating consistent, risk-informed decision-making parameters.
We believe that taking the controls are in place.
time to get this right will yield the greatest Once nalised, our risk appetite statements bene ts to our business and as such we are Our starting point has been to fide ne will be incorporated into an operating currently working with management to draft risk appetite statements for our framework, integrated with our existing fide ne a draft set of risk statements which principal risks, and for key decisions made Group Risk process, and used to monitor we will re ne over time to ensure that they by the Board.
These statements provide business activities and decision-making.
best re ect what the Group stands for.
parameters within which we typically We believe we have made good progress expect the business to operate, facilitating Providing clear parameters is important: this year and risk appetite remains a key structured consideration of the risk and however, it is essential that we also foster priority for the Board in 2015 16. reward trade-off in the decisions we make an environment where innovation and and in how the Group conducts business.
At times, VIABILITY STATEMENT Changes to the UK Corporate On the surface this might appear to be a Whilst the Code changes are not applicable Governance Code, which came into eff ect simple statement to make.
However, the to M&S until next years Annual Report, in October 2014, will require companies to Code changes emphasise the need for an elements of the Code change are aligned state whether they believe they will be able interconnected approach to assessing with the principles of integrated reporting.
to continue to operate and meet their viability.
The Board must take into account Both require some changes to a number liabilities, taking into account their current the Companys business model and the of our ways of working and, as part of our position and principal risks.
Companies inputs which support it and the strategy, commitment to producing an integrated will need to state over what period they ensuring that these are aligned with its risk report next year, we have already made have made their assessment and why they appetite, supporting risk framework and the progress.
We are committed to ensuring consider that period to be appropriate.
controls and activities in place to mitigate that our response to the Code change is The assessed period must be longer than risk.
The Code requires statements to be meaningful and adds value both within the 12 months and relative to business planning made as a reasonable expectation rather business and to our stakeholders.
The work processes and how business performance than a certainty.
we have in progress means that we are in a is measured.
strong position to meet the requirements in next years Annual Report.
See more in our 8 1 4 Risk management International GM customer GM expansion engagement margin section p23-25.
com GM supply & workstream business chain & management resilience logistics 5 network 6 9 Information IT Our security change people 2 10 3 Food safety Staff Food & integrity retention competition GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
