54 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REMUNERATION POLICY This report sets out the Companys policy EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AS APPROVED ON 8 JULY 2014 on remuneration for executive and nonexecutive directors, and was approved by FIGURE 1: EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE shareholders at the AGM on 8 July 2014.
Element Base salary Benets The policy remains unchanged from that disclosed in recent financial years.
It took eff ect from 8 July 2014 and may operate for up to three years.
PURPOSE To attract, retain and motivate To provide market competitive benets The Committee has therefore built in a AND LINK high calibre executives needed which drive employee engagement and TO STRATEGY degree of exibility to ensure the practical to deliver our strategy and drive commitment in our business.
application of the policy over this period.
Where such discretion is reserved, the extent to which it may be applied is described.
The Companys policy remains to attract, OPERATION Payable in cash.
Directors are eligible to receive retain and motivate its leaders and ensure Reviewed annually by the benets in line with our policies Committee considering a number which may include: they are focused on delivering business of factors, including: A car or cash allowance: priorities within a framework designed to Salary increases awarded to A driver: and promote the long-term success of M&S, other employees in the wider Life assurance.
workforce: and Where appropriate, our Global Comparable salaries in Domestic Mobility Policy may The directors remuneration policy has appropriate comparator groups apply.
This may include, but not be been republished on pages 54 to 60 with e. g. major retailers, our peer limited to travel, relocation and tax no alterations, with the exception of the group of FTSE 25-75 companies equalisation allowances.
etc.. All employees, including directors, remuneration illustrations which have been Salaries reect the experience, are also off ered a number of other updated to accurately re ect the directors responsibility and contribution benets such as employee discount remuneration for 2015 16 see page 61.
In of the individual and role within and salary sacrifice schemes such as addition, further information regarding the the Group.
Salaries for all employees are Directors are able to participate in a implementation of this policy which does typically reviewed annually on Save As You Earn Scheme and or a not require shareholder approval is set out a similar basis.
Share Incentive Plan and any other on page 60. all-employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.
MAXIMUM Whilst there is no set maximum, Whilst there is no set maximum, any OPPORTUNITY any increases are normally in line bene ts will be provided at a rate with those in the wider workforce.
Individual adjustments in excess Maximum participation in allof this may be made outside of employee share schemes is in line this cycle at the discretion of the with local statutory limits.
Such circumstances can include: Where the role scope has changed: Where comparable salaries in the external market have changed: or To apply salary progression for newly appointed directors.
PERFORMANCE N A N A CONDITIONS 55 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Annual Bonus Scheme including Deferred Pension benets Performance Share Plan Share Bonus Plan DSBP PSP To attract and retain To drive annual profitability, strategic change and individual Measured against the key financial drivers high calibre executives performance in line with our business plan.
of our business plan to deliver sustainable through a commitment value creation.
To recognise and reward individual contributions to the way to responsible, secure we do business.
To encourage long-term shareholding to retirement funding in line retain directors, and provide greater alignment with our Company values.
The deferral into shares provides alignment with shareholders with shareholders interests.
long-term interests following the successful delivery of short-term targets.
Directors may participate Directors are eligible to participate in this non-contractual, The Companys principal long-term incentive in the Your M&S discretionary Scheme.
scheme, first approved by shareholders Pension Saving Plan a Payments are made subject to the satisfaction of predetermined in 2005. dened contribution targets set at the start of the year, as approved by the Committee.
Directors are eligible to participate in this arrangement or receive Not less than 50% of any bonus earned is paid in deferred shares non-contractual, discretionary Plan.
a cash supplement in lieu under the DSBP, with the remainder payable in cash.
Directors may receive an annual award of pension contributions Deferred shares vest after a period of three years subject to which vests after three years subject to into this scheme.
continued service, but no further performance conditions.
Directors who are Malus provisions, good leaver and change of control provisions Malus provisions, good leaver and change of members of the Marks apply to the deferred shares see page 58. control provisions apply see page 58.
& Spencer UK Pension The value of any dividends during the deferred period will be The value of any dividends during the vesting Scheme a dened payable see the explanatory notes on page 56. period will be payable see the explanatory benefit arrangement, The Committee retains the right to exercise discretion, both notes on page 56. closed to new entrants upwards and downwards, to ensure that the level of award payable A significant proportion of the most senior will accrue benets is appropriate and fair in the context of the directors individual managers may be invited to participate in under that scheme.
performance and the Companys overall performance.
Where the PSP, on similar terms as the executive exercised, the rationale for this discretion will be fully disclosed to directors.
shareholders in the subsequent Annual Report.
All employees are eligible to participate in a bonus scheme measured against Group financial local targets and or individual performance.
For the most senior managers, part of the bonus earned is paid in deferred shares under the DSBP.
A maximum of 25% of A maximum annual potential of up to 200% of salary.
The maximum value of shares at grant which salary for executive can be made under an award to an individual directors or 30% of salary in respect of a financial year is 300% of salary.
N A Quanti able one-year performance measures and targets are Performance is measured over a three-year set by the Committee around financial and individual objectives period against a balanced scorecard of linked with the sustainable delivery of our business plan.
financial measures which currently include Financial performance measures comprise at least 50% of awards Revenue, Earnings Per Share EPS and Return and may include, but not be limited to, Underlying Group Pro t on Capital Employed ROCE chosen as those Before Tax PBT.
measures which support and drive top-line Typically, no payment for individual objectives can be earned and bottom-line performance in line with unless a threshold level of PBT has been achieved.
level is set by the Committee taking into account the previous The measures are currently weighted years performance and the business operating plan for the towards EPS.
The threshold level of vesting is 20% of the For threshold performance, up to 40% of maximum bonus maximum.
potential may be payable for the achievement of individual For performance between threshold and objectives.
maximum, awards vest on a straight-line basis.
GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE 56 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FIGURE 2: POLICY TABLE Executive directors may be in receipt of awarded upon recruitment or prior to their remuneration, for transparency, details of awards under share plans outside of the appointment as an executive director.
the plans are set out in the table below.
current remuneration framework detailed While awards under these plans do not on pages 54 to 55: these may have been form part of an executive directors annual PURPOSE AND OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE Element LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY CONDITIONS To enable the Restricted awards may be granted for the Whilst there is no The Committee may Restricted recruitment of key recruitment of directors.
maximum set in the choose to apply no Share Plan directors who are Awards vest after a restricted period, which rules, the Committee formal performance RSP necessary to the delivery can vary by award but is typically between considers the scale conditions save for of business strategy.
Malus provisions, good leaver and change of of awards on an control provisions apply see page 58. individual basis.
The value of any dividends during the restricted period will be payable see explanatory notes below.
Measured against Approved by shareholders and HMRC in Awards are capped Awards vest subject Executive the key drivers of our 2005, the Committee may choose to award at 250% of salary in to at least threeShare business plan to deliver share options to directors if appropriate.
respect of any financial year predetermined Option sustainable value Malus provisions, good leaver and change of year of the Company performance Scheme creation.
control provisions apply see page 58. but in recruitment conditions.
ESOS Options are normally exercised between circumstances awards To encourage long-term the third and tenth anniversaries of may be granted up to a shareholding to retain grant, subject to the achievement of higher limit of 400% of directors, and provide any performance conditions set by the salary.
EXPLANATORY NOTES For these purposes, payments include the In the event of a variation of the Companys Committee satisfying awards of variable share capital or a demerger, special dividend Laura Wade-Gery has unexercised RSP remuneration and, in relation to an award or other event which in the Committees awards which were made in connection over shares, the terms of the payment are opinion may aff ect the price of shares, the with her appointment to compensate her agreed at the time the award is granted.
Committee may alter the terms of awards for incentive awards that were forfeited on and the number of shares subject to them.
cessation from her previous employer.
Awards granted under the PSP, DSBP and The terms of awards may be amended in RSP can be made in the form of conditional Steve Rowe has unexercised ESOS awards accordance with the relevant plan rules share awards, forfeitable shares, options which were made prior to his appointment which in the case of the PSP and the or rights with the same economic eff ect.
ESOS were approved by shareholders In addition, awards may be settled in cash.
The Committee reserves the right to Awards may incorporate the right to receive make any remuneration payments in cash or shares the value of dividends, Any performance conditions applicable to notwithstanding that they are not in line including any dividend tax credit, between PSP and ESOS awards may be amended by with the policy set out above where grant and vesting on the shares that vest.
the Committee if an event occurs which the terms of the payment were agreed This amount may be calculated on causes it to consider that the performance i before this policy was in force or ii at a a cumulative basis, assuming the condition would not achieve its original time when the relevant individual was not a reinvestment of dividends into shares.
purpose and the amended performance director of the Company and, in the opinion condition is, in the opinion of the of the Committee, the payment was not in Committee, no less difficult to satisfy consideration of the individual becoming a but for the event in question.
57 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED RECRUITMENT POLICY The table below sets out the Companys In addition, the Committee in exceptional appropriately disclosed.
For example, for policy on the recruitment of new executive circumstances has discretion to include any internal promotional appointments to the directors.
Similar considerations may also other remuneration component or award Board, the Committee would honour any apply where a director is promoted within which it feels is appropriate, taking into pre-existing contractual remuneration the Board.
account the specic circumstances of the arrangements: these arrangements individual, subject to the limit on variable may be outside of the policy detailed remuneration set out below.
for any such component would be FIGURE 3: RECRUITMENT POLICY RECRUITMENT Element POLICY Salary The Committee will take into consideration a number of factors including the current pay for other executive directors, external market forces, skills and current level of pay at the previous employer in determining the pay on recruitment.
For new appointments to the Board, the Committee may set the rate of pay at the lower end of the rate for other directors with the intention of applying staged increases.
The Committee will off er a package which is set in line with our policy to appropriately reect the circumstances of the individual.
Benets Pension Maximum contribution in line with our policy for executive directors.
benets Annual Eligible to take part in the Annual Bonus Scheme with a maximum bonus of 200% of salary in line with our policy for executive directors.
Bonus Scheme PSP An award of up to 300% of salary in line with our policy for executive directors.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result Buy-out of appointment, the Committee may off er compensatory payments or buy-out awards, dependent on the individual awards circumstances of recruitment, determined on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee in its judgement normally intends that any such awards are made on a like-for-like basis and considers issues such as the plan type, time horizons and valuation of the forfeited awards.
The Committees intention would be to ensure that the value awarded will be no greater than the value forfeited by the individual.
Where appropriate, the Committee may choose to apply performance conditions to any of these awards.
SERVICE CONTRACTS TERMINATION POLICY Service agreements may be terminated without notice and without any payments It is the Companys policy that all executive The Company may terminate the contract in certain circumstances, such as gross directors have rolling service contracts of any executive director summarily in misconduct.
The Company may require the that can be terminated by the Company accordance with the terms of their service individual to work during their notice period, giving 12 months notice and the employee agreement, on payment in lieu of notice of or may choose to place the individual on giving six months notice.
The directors a sum equal to salary, benets and pension garden leave.
Such a decision would be service contracts are available for as per their contractual notice entitlement made to ensure the protection of the shareholder inspection at the Companys see page 73.
Companys and shareholders interests registered ofce.
The Company can make a series of phased where the individual has had access to payments which are paid in monthly commercially sensitive information.
instalments and subject to mitigation.
The table overleaf sets out key provisions This mechanism allows for the amount of for directors leaving the Company under any phased payments to be reduced by their service contracts and the incentive the income from any alternative position plan rules.
secured by the former director during the phased payments period.
GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE 58 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FIGURE 4: KEY PROVISIONS UPON CONTRACT TERMINATION TERMINATION Element POLICY Payment will be made up to the termination date in line with relevant contractual notice periods.
Salary, benets and pension benets There is no contractual entitlement to annual bonus.
Should a director be under notice or not in active service at either the Annual Bonus relevant year end or on the date of payment, awards including any outstanding unvested deferred bonus shares may lapse.
Scheme The Committee may use its discretion as described below to make a bonus award, which is normally prorated for time and based on performance assessed at the end of the bonus period.
Where a director ceases to be an officer or employee of the Group before the end of the relevant period, the treatment of outstanding Long-term awards is determined in accordance with the plan rules.
incentive In some circumstances, where a director leaves due to retirement, injury, ill-health, death or the sale of the directors employing awards company or business out of the Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee and in accordance with the plan rules, DSBP awards normally vest in full on cessation: PSP and ESOS awards which have been held for at least 12 months normally vest when the level of performance has been assessed and agreed at the end of the three-year performance period.
The Committee may determine these awards vest upon cessation as permitted in the plan rules.
In either circumstance, any relevant performance conditions would still apply to the PSP and ESOS awards and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, would be time prorated.
Where a director has been recruited to the Company from overseas, the Company may pay for repatriation.
Repatriation The Company may reimburse for reasonable legal fees in the event a director leaves by mutual consent.
It may also pay for Legal professional outplacement services in these circumstances.
expenses and outplacement The Companys policy toward exit payments MALUS PROVISIONS executive directors pay review in line allows for a variety of circumstances with these arrangements.
All share awards granted in 2013 onwards whereby a director may leave the business.
are subject to malus provisions.
These The Director of Human Resources consults In some cases, where deemed suitable, the provisions allow the Committee, in its on all executive director bonus objectives Committee reserves the right to determine absolute discretion, to determine at any and advises the Committee on how, and the exit payments, where the director leaves time prior to the vesting of an award to extent to which, these may be cascaded by mutual agreement.
In all circumstances, reduce the number of shares, cancel an throughout the Company.
In approving the Committee does not intend to reward award or impose further conditions on the budget for the annual bonus, the failure and will make decisions based on the an award in circumstances which the Committee reviews all bonus costs for individual circumstances.
The Committees Committee considers such action to be the Company against the operating plan.
objective is that any such agreements are appropriate.
Such circumstances may The Committee also reviews and approves determined on an individual basis and are include, but not be limited to, a material any PSP awards made to executive directors in the best interests of the Company and misstatement of the Companys and directors below the Board prior to shareholders at that time, and reect the audited results.
directors contractual and other legal rights.
The Committee also receives updates on a CONSIDERATION OF WIDER CORPORATE EVENTS variety of employee engagement initiatives WORKFORCE PAY which form part of our normal employee In the event of a change of control or The Committee monitors and reviews the engagement practices.
The annual Your winding-up of the Company, unvested share eff ectiveness of the senior remuneration Say employee survey asks employees awards will normally vest on the date that policy and has regard to its impact and about the fairness and reasonableness of the Board noties participants of such an compatibility with remuneration policies employee pay and benets.
The number of shares which may in the wider workforce.
made through this survey or through vest under awards in these circumstances our network of elected employee The Committee is provided throughout will be subject to any relevant performance representatives via our Business the year with information detailing pay in conditions and, in the case of PSP awards, Involvement Groups are taken into account.
the wider workforce which gives additional unless the Committee determines context for the Committee to make The Head of Reward & Global Mobility otherwise, time prorating.
annually provides these employee informed decisions.
The Director of In the event of a demerger, special dividend representatives with an explanation of the Human Resources advises the Committee or other event which, in the opinion of the Companys reward principles and director of the approach which will be adopted Committee aff ects the price of shares, the with the forthcoming UK pay review and pay arrangements during the year, and is Committee may allow some or all of an available to answer questions at this time.
the Committee then considers the award to vest.
59 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED CONSIDERATION OF The Committee seeks the views of the As part of our socially responsible reporting SHAREHOLDER VIEWS largest shareholders when considering strategy, an annual meeting is held and making any significant changes to the the consideration of views on a variety of The Committee is committed to an remuneration policy: this may be done topics, including executive pay, is taken open and transparent dialogue with its annually or on an ad hoc basis, dependent into account.
shareholders on the issue of executive upon the issue.
Where appropriate, the During the year, the Committee consulted engages in a process of investor Committee will actively engage with with shareholders regarding the minor consultation, which is typically in written shareholders and shareholder amendments made to the implementation format, but may be through face-to-face representative bodies, seeking views policy as detailed on page 76. meetings etc.
The which may be taken into account when Committee Chairman is available to answer making any decisions about changes to questions at the Annual General Meeting the directors remuneration policy.
AGM and the answers to specic questions are posted on our website.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AS APPROVED ON 8 JULY 2014 Policy table The table below sets out our policy for the operation of non-executive director fees and benets at the Company.
FIGURE 5: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE Element Chairmans Non-executive Additional Benets fees director basic fee fees PURPOSE To provide a fair fee at a To provide a fair basic fee at a To provide compensation To facilitate the execution of AND LINK TO level that attracts and rate that attracts and retains to non-executive directors responsibilities and duties STRATEGY retains a high-calibre high-calibre non-executive taking on additional Board required by the role.
OPERATION Paid in equal monthly Fees are paid in equal Additional fees are paid In addition to the annual instalments: may be monthly instalments for extra responsibilities fee, the Chairman is made in cash and or and may be made in undertaken by nonentitled to the use of shares.
executive directors for the a car and driver.
Fees are determined Fees are determined role of Board Chairman, a In line with other by the Remuneration by the Chairman and Committee Chairman or employees, the Committee.
the Senior Independent Chairman and nonFees reect the The fee level recognises Director role.
executive directors time commitment, the scope of the role receive employee demands and and time commitment product discount.
Reviewed annually, taking into account The Chairman and taking into account market practice non-executive market practice in appropriate directors do not in appropriate comparator groups participate in pension comparator groups, e. g. major retailers, our or performance-related e. g. major retailers, our peer group of FTSE 25- schemes.
peer group of FTSE 75 companies, etc.. 25-75 companies, etc.
The maximum aggregate fees for nonexecutive directors, including the Chairman, is 750,000 p. a. as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE 60 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FIGURE 6: RECRUITMENT POLICY RECRUITMENT The table opposite sets out the recruitment Element POLICY policy for non-executive directors.
Fees The Committee takes into account a number of factors when determining AGREEMENTS FOR SERVICE an appropriate fee level for the Chairman.
The CEO and executive directors determine appropriate fee levels for the non-executive directors.
This All non-executive directors, including the consideration includes the time commitment and responsibility of the Chairman, have an agreement for service individual role and market practice in appropriate comparator groups.
for an initial three-year term: these are available for shareholder inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
The Chairman has an agreement for service which requires Bene ts The Company may off er bene ts to the Chairman set in line with our policy six months notice by either party.
Nonas detailed on page 59. executive directors service agreements may be terminated by either party giving three months notice.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all nonexecutive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at our AGM.
INFORMATION ON REMUNERATION POLICY SINCE APPROVAL Since the approval of the remuneration CLAWBACK PROVISIONS The speci ed events include gross policy at the AGM held on 8 July 2014, misconduct or where a material M&S is committed to ensuring its a number of changes concerning the misstatement of the Companys financial remuneration arrangements motivate implementation of the approved policy statements has occurred.
Clawback may be participants to strive for exceptional have been made.
These amendments do eff ected, among other means, by requiring performance whilst also protecting not require prior shareholder approval the transfer of shares, payment of cash, or shareholder value from the Company and do not change the current approved reduction of awards.
In line with remuneration policy.
updated guidance in the UK Corporate All outstanding share awards made since Governance Code, clawback provisions will 2013 will continue to be subject to the PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN be introduced as part of the replacement malus provisions which were introduced EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEME share scheme rules at the 2015 AGM.
Upon at that time and as reported on page 58 The Companys Performance Share Plan introduction, these clawback provisions will of this report.
These malus provisions will PSP and Executive Share Option Scheme apply to payments made under the 2015 16 be renewed as part of the replacement ESOS were first approved by shareholders Annual Bonus Scheme and any future share plan rules.
As such, they are due to expire in bonus schemes operated by M&S.
Awards 2015 and will be updated with replacement made under any of the Companys other UNVESTED AWARDS UNDER plans if approved by shareholders at the executive share schemes including the RESTRICTED SHARE PLAN AND 2015 AGM.
The terms of the proposed new Performance Share Plan in 2015 and EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEME plans are principally in line with those of onwards will similarly be subject to clawback As shown on page 56, Laura Wade-Gery and the 2005 Plans and are fully in line with the provisions.
These provisions enable the Steve Rowe had unexercised Restricted policy approved by shareholders at the Committee, in its absolute discretion, to Share Plan and Executive Share Option 2014 AGM.
Further details of the proposed reclaim awards paid to individuals for up to Scheme awards respectively, when the replacement plans are set out in the three years after the respective vesting or remuneration policy was first implemented.
Notice of Meeting and on page67.
payment date or up to two years in the case In both instances, these outstanding awards of PSP awards where speci ed events occur.
have now been exercised during the year.
61 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 INFORMATION ON REMUNERATION POLICY SINCE APPROVAL CONTINUED APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY The charts below provide an illustration These charts are illustrative as the actual to 2017 18 for the PSP, as well as share price of what could be received by each of the performance to the date of the vesting of value which will ultimately be received will executive directors in 2015 16. the share element of the bonus scheme depend on business performance in the year 2015 16 for the cash element of the and PSP awards in 2018. bonus scheme and in the three-year period FIGURE 7: REMUNERATION ILLUSTRATIONS DIRECTOR KEY ASSUMPTIONS Fixed remuneration Marc Bolland Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Includes all elements of xed 000 000 remuneration: Base salary eff ective 1 July 2015, 5,674 6,000 6,000 as shown in the table on page 63 : Pension bene ts using the salary 43% supplement policy on pages 54 to 55 : and 4,000 4,000 3,176 2,749 Bene ts using the value for 2014 15 included in the single gure table 18% 43% 34% on page 62.
For Helen Weir, the 1,538 35% 2,000 2,000 1,287 average value of bene ts of the other 18% 34% 719 35% executive directors has been used 100% 47% 23% for the purpose of this calculation.
100% 47% 23% 0 Fixed Target Maximum 0 Fixed Target Maximum Annual Bonus Scheme ABS John Dixon Steve Rowe Represents the potential value of the 000 000 annual bonus for 2015 16.
Half of any bonus would be deferred into shares 6,000 6,000 for three years and this is included in the value shown.
No share price growth is assumed.
0 Fixed Target Maximum 0 Fixed Target Maximum BASIS OF CALCULATIONS Fixed Fixed remuneration only.
No vesting Helen Weir Laura Wade-Gery under the Annual Bonus Scheme 000 000 and PSP.
Target Includes the following assumptions 6,000 6,000 for the vesting of the incentive components of the package: A nnual Bonus Scheme: 50% of 3,421 maximum: and 4,000 4,000 3,292 PSP: 20% of maximum.
43% 43% Maximum Includes the following assumptions 1,651 1,585 for the vesting of the incentive 2,000 2,000 18% 18% 35% 35% components of the package: 766 36% 731 36% A nnual Bonus Scheme: 100% 46% 22% 46% 22% 100% 100% of maximum: and 0 Fixed Target Maximum 0 Fixed Target Maximum PSP: 100% of maximum.
GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE
