42 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT We We h have an established mapping of the experience and skill and s s requirements for our Board.
This allowed us t to o mo move with clarity on the replacement and succession o of f Jan du Plessis as Senior Independent Director.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE INTRODUCTION and also appoint Miranda Curtis to the Audit senior management talent development Committee, in addition to her membership of and pipeline.
We have continued to support We have seen further change to our Board the Remuneration Committee.
Following the executive coaching and mentoring and are composition this year.
I am pleased to retirement of Steven Holliday from the Board pleased with the bene ts and insights these welcome our new Chief Finance Offi cer, in July 2014, we recognised the bene ts that initiatives have brought.
We announced Helens a serving CEO brings to our Board mix, along appointment in November 2014 and she Building on initiatives in previous years, our with international, brand and consumer formally took up her position on 1 April 2015. non-executive directors continue to engage experience.
This clear brief underpinned In August 2014 we announced that with both senior management and the the appointment of Richard Solomons to Jan du Plessis would be stepping down in broader business, hosting lunches and the Board in April 2015. the early part of 2015.
He left the business on breakfast presentations.
As highlighted in 4 March after nearly six years on the Board.
Vindi Banga succeeded Steven Holliday as our Action Plan, this is something we intend As part of our Board succession planning Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Vindi to build on in the year ahead.
process, we have established mapping of our and Steve managed an exemplary handover, As a Board we continue to drive diversity experience and skills requirements, future including consultation and meetings with across the business.
We are pleased that Board and Committee requirements, and investors ahead of the approval of our women now represent almost 40% of our director tenure.
As a result, following Jans Remuneration Policy at the AGM in July 2014.
Our current diversity retirement, we were well placed to appoint In addition to these Board changes, percentage is also re ective of broader Vindi Banga as Senior Independent Director, throughout the year, the Committee focused senior management, where female in addition to his responsibilities as on executive director development and representation also accounts for almost 40%.
Remuneration Committee Chairman, EFFECTIVENESS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Independent review build on this in the coming year with our the process, timetable, shortlist and final The Committees performance was 2015 16 Action Plan.
recommendation for the appointment of reviewed externally this year by F on Hague Richard Solomons and succession planning Nomination Committee activity of Independent Board Evaluation.
following the departure of Jan du Plessis.
We continued to refresh and review nonPerformance was felt to have improved, executive director tenure and skillset to We continued to support succession and with better support and more professional ensure an appropriate mix and diversity development of the executive directors, processes coming into eff ect.
We intend to of experience.
As part of this, we agreed implemented development initiatives for senior executives, further international MEMBER ATTENDANCE MEMBER MAXIMUM NUMBER OF % OF business school training, executive coaching SINCE POSSIBLE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS ATTENDED ATTENDED and non-executive director mentoring.
Committee members also participated in 3 Sep 2011 4 4 100% Vindi Banga several employee-focused and diversity- 1 May 2010 4 4 100% based initiatives, giving increased access to Marc Bolland the organisation, direct employee feedback Alison Brittain 1 Jan 2014 4 4 100% and greater visibility of high potential talent.
3 Feb 2012 4 4 100% Miranda Curtis Action Plan 2015 16: 1 Jun 2007 4 4 100% Martha Lane Fox Continue to review succession plans for the Board and key roles 1 Jan 2013 4 4 100% Andy Halford across the business: 1 Jan du Plessis 1 Nov 2008 4 3 75% Continue to identify future talent pipeline: 2 Richard Solomons 13 Apr 2015 - - - Review development initiatives 4 Oct 2010 4 4 100% Robert Swannell Chairman for directors: and 1.
Jan du Plessis was a member of the Committee until 4 March 2015, when he resigned from the Board.
He was unable to Continue to identify opportunities attend the meeting held on 8 September due to overseas business commitments.
Richard Solomons joined the business during the new financial period and his attendance will be included in next for broader business engagement.
43 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Our assessment of diversity in terms of The Leadership Development Service has Report annually against these objectives experience and background is covered in been in place for two years and continues and other initiatives taking place within the further detail below.
We also reviewed our to identify and partner key senior talent Company which promote gender and other diversity policy this year to ensure it remains across the business, broadening their forms of diversity.
skillsets and experience to prepare them The Board has made strong progress against for future opportunities.
This has been the key policy objectives during the year, as BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY supported through greater boardroom reported above.
exposure, non-executive and Trustee Since the launch of the Board Diversity Policy In addition, the business has continued to roles outside of M&S, and participation in 2012, the Board has made progress in promote diversity with the introduction or in mentoring schemes.
broadening the diversity of the Board and continuation of key initiatives: senior management.
In 2014, the Board Access to International Business The annual Board evaluation process reviewed the policy to ensure that it School Training.
includes an assessment of the Boards continues to drive the bene ts of a diverse Senior management mentoring and diversity including gender, helping to Board and workforce across the business.
coaching schemes, including individual objectively consider its composition The Board agreed that the ambitions and leadership assessments, and nonand eff ectiveness.
objectives set out in the policy remain executive director sponsored lunches relevant targets against which to measure The M&S Inspiring Womens Network, and breakfasts.
launched in 2014, continues to support the Consider candidates for appointment as progress of women in our business, giving For further information on employee non-executive directors from a wider pool, access to a range of role models, providing diversity, including gender, ethnicity including those with little or no listed informal mentoring and networking and age, see p23 of our Plan A Report marksandspencer.
opportunities, and creating a forum for During the year, the Nomination Committee discussion to explore and address the BOARD DIVERSITY: PROGRESS UPDATE discussed the Boards successional needs, career challenges women face.
and continues to work closely with executive Maintain a level of at least 30% female Taking part in a number of pilot schemes search agency JCA in compiling long and directors on the Board over the short to including cross-business mentoring for short lists of candidates.
During the search medium term.
senior women, run by the governmentfor the most recent appointments, the As highlighted earlier in the report, the Board backed 30% Club, a female only Board identi ed and interviewed a range of made two appointments during the year development programme.
candidates from various backgrounds and following one retirement and one resignation.
industries, and all candidates were measured The MBA Leadership Programme is in its The appointments of Helen Weir and Richard against criteria agreed at the start of the fourth year, recruiting and developing Solomons increased the female male process.
The Chairman also meets informally talented MBA graduates from international balance on the Board from 31% female with a range of people introduced by third business schools: to date intake into the membership at the start of July last year parties or through direct approaches.
programme has been over 50% women.
Although we do not currently openly Partnering with a local school to provide The Board remains committed to maintaining advertise our non-executive director one-to-one mentoring support for around at least a 30% female representation on the positions, we appreciate the bene t of this 50 female students between the ages of Board, whilst ensuring that diversity in its approach and will keep this under review.
15 and 17. broadest sense remains a central feature.
Ensure long lists of potential However, the Nomination Committee will A number of programmes to help people non-executive directors include 50% continue to recommend appointments in our communities, including Marks & Start, female candidates.
to the Board based on merit, measured Marks & Start Logistics, and Make Your The Board remains committed to ensuring against objective criteria and the skills and Mark, are successfully helping young that high performing women from within the experience the individual off ers.
people, the homeless, lone parents and business and from a variety of backgrounds, those with disabilities, to nd work in our The Board remains committed to who have the requisite skills, are given greater stores and distribution centre.
strengthening the pipeline of senior female exposure to the nomination committees of executives within the business and has taken FTSE100 companies.
Once again, the Board Report annually on the outcome of the steps to ensure that there are no barriers to met its commitment, and all non-executive Board evaluation, the composition and women succeeding at the highest levels director long lists in 2014 15 included 50% structure of the Board as well as any issues within M&S.
and challenges the Board is facing when considering the diverse make-up of the In 2015, M&S was again listed in The Times Only engage executive search rms who Company.
Top 50 Employers for Women for the fifth have signed up to the voluntary Code We continue to regard the Board evaluation year running.
of Conduct on gender diversity and process as an important means of monitoring best practice.
Assist the development of a pipeline of our progress.
Full details of the 2014 15 Board The Board continues to support the nine high-calibre candidates by encouraging a evaluation and the Action Plan are on page 41. principles of the Executive Search Firms broad range of senior individuals within the We remain committed to getting the right Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender business to take on additional roles to gain balance of internal versus external hires and diversity, demonstrated by remaining valuable Board experience.
work towards understanding and managing committed to only engaging executive During the year, the Board continued to some of the challenges we face, such as: search rms who are signatories to this code.
focus on strengthening the pipeline of During the year, we continued to work closely International management experience executive talent in the Company.
It with JCA, and maintained our focus on re ective of the customers and committed to learning and building on the targets and ambitions around female communities we serve: and existing programmes while introducing new representation on the Board.
The Board initiatives to broaden and develop the strong Any main challenges women face in con rms that JCA has no other connection talent which exists across the business.
reaching regional management positions with the Company.
and above, within the business.
Key initiatives include: A comprehensive talent review presented to the Board annually, mapping successional candidates and opportunities across all senior roles within the business.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
