Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee Report DEAR SHAREHOLDER his continuing role as a Non-executive Director invaluable.
As previously reported, this year saw a number of changes Mindful that an effective Board should be a balance between to the Board and Committees.
Catherine Glickman joined preserving some continuity of challenge with the introduction the Board on 1 December 2014 and Rosalind Cuschieri of some fresh thinking, the Committee consider Neils tenure retired from the Board on 27 January 2015.
Catherine joined on the Board to strengthen his effectiveness as the Senior the Remuneration Committee upon her appointment and Independent Director.
Looking ahead, Neil has stated that he both Carolyn Bradley and Catherine were appointed to the will step down from the Board after the 2017 AGM.
Nomination Committee with effect from 8 May 2015.
Finally, the Committee considered its own effectiveness.
DIVERSITY POLICY This provided a formal opportunity to review the way we operate Our approach remains the same: we take note of the guidance and our strategy for discharging those duties.
The Committee provided and we require any search agency to have signed up to was satisfied that it continues to perform its duties in their industrys Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender accordance with its terms of reference.
We have not set a specic target for numbers of female Having discussed the personal effectiveness and commitment Directors and we will continue to make appointments on the basis with each Director in individual meetings as part of this years of merit.
However, we recognise the benets that greater diversity Board evaluation, I have concluded that the performance of can bring and take into account such factors when considering each Board member continues to be effective and I therefore any particular appointment.
Currently, two of Marstons nine Board recommend the re-election of each Director to shareholders at members are female.
RE-ELECTION AND EVALUATION The Committee considered the time required from each Roger Devlin Non-executive Director, their effectiveness and the experience Chairman of the Nomination Committee brought to the Board.
Neil Gouldens breadth of experience in the pubs, food and leisure sectors together with his involvement in areas relevant to our corporate responsibilities make Membership Responsibilities KEY ACTIViTIES DURING THE REPORTING YEAR Roger Devlin Chairman Ensure the Board and its Committees have the right balance of skills, Understanding the leadership needs of the business, Ralph Findlay knowledge and experience.
succession planning, the process for this years Board Nick Backhouse To plan for the orderly succession of evaluation and the contribution and tenure of each Director.
Carolyn Bradley Directors to the Board and other senior Considering future succession planning and executive Rosalind Cuschieri managers.
until 27 January 2015 development needs to ensure delivery of operational To identify and nominate suitable performance in line with the Companys strategy.
Neil Goulden candidates for Executive and Nonexecutive Director vacancies having Catherine Glickman Ahead of this years internal evaluation process, the regard to, amongst other factors, the Robin Rowland Committee met to consider the most effective method for the benets of diversity, including gender diversity.
review of the Board, its Committees and individual contribution of each Director.
Reviewing the membership of the Board and each of its Attendees Terms of reference Committees by way of a self-assessment skills matrix of Other Executive Directors, senior Full terms of reference of the core competencies.
We developed the matrix to identify the management and external advisers Committee can be found in the strengths and balance of skills and experience within the may be invited to attend meetings.
Investors section of the Companys Board and any gaps in desirable skills when looking to future website.
