46 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT T The Committee has covered much ground this year w with the auditor transition, a wider and enhanced assurance scope and greater risk oversight.
We plan to build on this in the year ahead.
ANDY HALFORD CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INTRODUCTION This report also shares some of the insight challenge, discuss and debate with the we received from the executive updates presenters whilst sharing our experience The following pages aim to open up the presented to us from across the business.
and providing an independent perspective.
doors to the boardroom and provide These continue to provide the Committee insight into the Audit Committees activities In October 2014, the UK Corporate with real insight into our challenges and in the year, as well as provide an update Governance Code was updated.
These also tell us how the risks on the Companys new statutory auditor Committee is looking closely at the are being managed and mitigated, as well Deloitte, their eff ectiveness and the nonadditional requirements introduced by as helping the Committee members audit fees they received.
It provides the the new iteration of the Code to assess understand the progress being made Committees opinion on the Annual Report which of our processes need updating towards the strategic plan.
The updates when viewed as a whole, including how it and to ensure that we are well positioned provide us with an opportunity to has assessed the narrative reporting in the to report against them in future.
front of the report to accurately re ect the financial statements in the back.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Board is satis ed that one member the business response to internal audits Reviewed their ways of working and of the Committee, Andy Halford, has and the overall quality of information assurance following appointment of recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee Deloitte as the new Statutory Auditor.
made good progress against the 2014 15 Updated the process for assessing the Independent review Action Plan, establishing good ways of eff ectiveness of the external auditor.
working with Deloitte and improving the The Audit Committees performance risk oversight in key business areas that Reviewed the design and scope was reviewed externally this year by were critical to performance.
of the assurance plan, with particular F on Hague of Independent Board focus on key strategic priorities.
Evaluation, as part of the Board Audit Committee activity Eff ectiveness Review.
The Committee Received and discussed speci c received very positive feedback from Board Remained focused on the audit, business presentations relating to members and external participants.
It is assurance and risk processes within risks within the Group Risk Pro le.
seen as open, transparent and eff ective and the business, and maintained oversight Board members value the feedback to the of financial and other regulatory wider Board.
In particular, the Committee is requirements.
Action plan 2015 16: seen to have driven some improvement in Looking ahead, the Committee will remain focused on the audit, assurance MEMBER ATTENDANCE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF % MEMBER and risk processes within the business, POSSIBLE MEETINGS OF MEETINGS SINCE MEETINGS ATTENDED ATTENDED and maintain its oversight of financial and other regulatory requirements.
11 Mar 2014 5 5 100% Alison Brittain The action plan for 2015 16 will focus on: Providing oversight of key business 4 Mar 2015 1 1 100% Miranda Curtis risks with particular focus on International retail and ethical sourcing: 1 Jun 2007 5 5 100% Martha Lane Fox Supporting risk work achieved in 1 Jan 2013 5 5 100% Andy Halford Chairman 2014 15 and fide nitions of risk appetite across the business: and 1 15 Jul 2004 1 0 0% Steven Holliday resigned 8 July 2014 Continuing to support the development, design and scope of 2 1 Nov 2008 4 3 75% Jan du Plessis the assurance plan, with particular resigned 4 March 2015 focus on key strategic priorities.
Steven Holliday was unable to attend the meeting held on 15 May due to business commitments with National Grid.
Jan du Plessis was unable to attend the meeting held on 8 September due to overseas business commitments.
47 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 EXTERNAL AUDITORS TENURE OF THE AUDITORS including audit partner attendance Deloitte had provided several non-audit at a stock count, operations in nine services to the business prior to their At the AGM last year shareholders overseas countries China, Hong Kong, appointment and, although many of these approved the appointment of Deloitte India, Turkey, Greece, Czech, France, were complete by March 2014, some were as the Companys new Statutory Auditor.
expected to run over into the 2014 15 The proposed change in auditor was financial year whilst they were tendered In addition, Deloitte have participated in communicated to shareholders in to another rm.
Where non-audit work is workshops on material and judgemental December 2013.
This extended lead time performed by Deloitte, both the Company areas prior to their first half year review.
provided a smooth handover process from and Deloitte ensure robust processes to The Company and Deloitte adopted a PwC, the previous Statutory Auditor, and prevent auditor independence from being collaborative approach throughout allowed Deloitte to shadow PwC through compromised.
the year, encouraging ongoing, open areas of the 2014 year end process, communication on current matters as The non-audit fees to audit fees ratio giving them a good understanding of and when they arose.
related to services now transitioned In the early part of the year, Deloitte NON-AUDIT FEES to other companies overseas payroll, underwent a thorough induction process accountancy and tax compliance A robust auditor engagement policy to enhance their understanding of the services and two other small one-off is in place and adhered to.
reviewed annually and disclosed on Meetings with management and marksandspencer.
All non-audit work performed by Deloitte executives across the business including was put to the Audit Committee for In the interest of transparency, last year a large number of individuals outside of consideration and approval, regardless we highlighted that business forecasting the finance function trading managers, of size.
and planning indicated that fees for nonbuyers, property team, HR and others.
audit work with Deloitte were likely to be A number of site visits across the UK impacted by additional items, much of and International operations: including which were a direct result of the transition 16 UK distribution centres, 27 UK stores between audit rms.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Committee believes the independence process, and provide the Audit Committee communication and challenge.
The and objectivity of the external auditor with suffi cient detail to establish an informed Committee had access to copies of the and the eff ectiveness of the audit process view on the overall effi ciency, integrity and completed finance questionnaires sections 1 are safeguarded and remain strong, and eff ectiveness of the external audit.
and 2 above to assist their considerations.
recommends the reappointment of Questionnaires were tailored to the Deloitte LLP for the 2015 16 financial year.
following target groups: As this is Deloittes first year with M&S, the The assessment of the eff ectiveness of our 1.
Chief Finance Offi cer and Director of Committee was only able to assess their external auditor is based on a framework Group Financial Control A full questionnaire, work up until the end of the financial period divided into ten structured components covering all areas of the audit process, was and not the year end audit itself.
However, setting out the key areas of the audit process completed based on the individuals close the period assessed included the interim for the Audit Committee to consider, as well knowledge of the audit process, their reporting cycle, providing Committee as the role that management has contributed interaction with the audit partner and members with early insight into the level of to an eff ective process.
taking consideration of the questionnaire challenge and scrutiny Deloitte provide.
The framework provides the Audit completed by the Heads of Finance for Food, Feedback highlighted: Committee with a mechanism to encourage GM and International.
A good understanding of the business and management to improve standards in a 2.
Heads of Finance: Food, GM and its values: number of key areas.
These include ensuring International Shorter questionnaire, focusing that information is presented with a culture A team that were robustly challenging, on the audit team, planning, challenge and of right first time, that the quality of whilst supportive on technical matters: and interaction with the business.
management papers is high, that robust A joined up approach towards the internal systems and controls are maintained, 3.
Audit Committee A high level set of signi cant issues for discussion.
that the audit process is respected and questions with speci c focus on the audit valued by the management team, and that partner, planning, execution, value, proposed audit adjustments are examined Last years feedback identi ed: How has this been addressed?
The Committee believes that this framework provides a robust process for The Committee Chairman was felt to have Time has been made available prior to monitoring auditor eff ectiveness now, and greater visibility of the overall audit process each Committee meeting for the Chairman can be measured against the findings of as a result of his one-to-one meetings with to update Committee members, where future external auditor eff ectiveness surveys.
For 2014 15 we tailored the approach to The survey itself contained a level of detail The content of the survey has been the assessment process enabling senior regarding processes that the Committee reviewed and updated.
An overview of management to answer the detailed may not have or need visibility of.
the new process is provided above.
questions on the Company-wide audit FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE 48 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE UPDATES SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The Committee receives a detailed update Updated on the key changes to the M&S The Audit Committee has assessed whether from the business at each Committee meeting, ways of working to deliver the margin suitable accounting policies have been with one or more areas represented.
Business initiatives, including changes in supplier adopted and whether management has made updates are planned on a rolling 12-month models and a better buying model.
basis and reviewed at every meeting.
Some of Noted the risks and impact of external Throughout the year, the finance team has the 2014 15 updates are listed below: factors and mitigating actions, including worked closely with Deloitte to ensure that currency volatility risk.
the business is transparent and provides ETHICAL SOURCING the required level of disclosure regarding Discussed ways of working with our GM Updated our GM ethical trading approach, signi cant issues considered by the supply base and how this has changed including M&S standards and auditing.
Committee in relation to the financial over time and key areas of change going statements, as well as how these issues Discussed the monitoring process, forward, including change in culture.
were addressed, whilst being mindful of site rankings and escalation procedures matters that may be business sensitive.
and improvements made in this area.
HEDGING POLICY The main areas of judgement that have been Received examples of high, medium Updated on the key areas relating to considered by the Committee to ensure that and low risk suppliers, noting those transaction and translation exposure, the appropriate rigour has been applied are outlined that M&S works with.
associated level of exposure and speci c in this section.
All accounting policies can be approaches to transactional hedging.
Updated on training and innovation, and found in note 1 on pages 94 to 97.
Where noted the introduction of new technologies Discussed the impact of currency further information is provided in the notes to and methodologies in this area.
the financial statements, we have included the note reference.
Updated on net asset hedging and FOOD SUPPLIER TERMS AND approach, including risk appetite and Each of the areas of judgement below has CONDITIONS REPORT associated limits.
been identi ed as an area of focus and Discussed the outcome and therefore the Committee has also received recommendations of the internal audit into M&S.
COM AND CASTLE DONINGTON detailed reporting from Deloitte.
Food Supplier Rebates, including the types DISTRIBUTION CENTRE RESILIENCE and mechanics of Food Supplier income IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL, Updated on Castle Donington business and proposed improvements in the control BRANDS AND TANGIBLE ASSETS continuity, including contingency options environment.
and devising a plan for e-commerce The Committee has considered the Updated on the areas of greater potential ful lment.
assessments made in relation to the impairment risk and opportunities for an associated of goodwill, brands and tangible xed assets, Discussed the Castle Donington higher level of risk-based monitoring.
including land and buildings and store assets.
operating model, including planning The Committee received detailed reports Discussed the importance of accounting and forecasting models and resourcing, from management outlining the treatment of standards, controls and appropriate training.
impairments where we are committed to close Updated on the M&S.
com platform a store, valuation methodology, the basis for INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS resilience and noted that the resilience key assumptions discount rate and long-term Updated on the risks and mitigating actions solution for the M&S.
com platform had growth rate and the key drivers of the cash to deliver the international strategy, been embedded, but would be regularly ow forecasts.
The Committee has challenged including eff ective supply of goods.
management and is satis ed that these are appropriate.
The Committee has also Discussed the challenges facing the Discussed the recovery testing and understood the sensitivity analysis used by International business including the the process for evaluating and testing management in their review of goodwill and impact of the social-economic and management judgement for unplanned brand impairment.
In addition, the business geopolitical climates.
plans detailing managements expectations Updated on the international growth of future performance of the businesses are BUSINESS CONTINUITY strategy, including the franchise model, the Board approved.
The Committee is satis ed international control environment and the Discussed the 2014 15 performance by that no impairment of goodwill or brand is performance of the India business model.
key incident areas and the bene ts from required and appropriate impairment of tracking incident data.
tangible assets has been recognised.
Discussed the International food strategy, See notes 14 and 15 on page 110-111 re, health & safety, and improvements Updated on progress made in the in business continuity.
International business, including legacy INVENTORY VALUATION joint venture countries and franchise.
AND PROVISIONING GM SOURCING Discussed the current national threat Inventory provisions include stock in transit, Updated on the improvements in level, level of preparedness and key areas obsolete stock, net realisable value below cost GM margin and sourcing strategy, key for improvement, including working with and stock loss provisions.
The Committee drivers to delivering the target growth our franchise partners.
has examined in detail management papers in the plan, and key areas of risk.
Discussed the strategy and focus for outlining the judgements made regarding 2015 16 with the key areas of focus being provisioning for inventory balances and is Castle Donington and International.
satis ed that a suffi ciently robust process was followed to con rm quantities of inventory and that net realisable value of inventory exceeds its cost at year end.
49 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE PRESENTATION OF THE At the request of the Board, the Committee IS THE REPORT BALANCED?
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS has considered whether, in its opinion, the Is there a good level of consistency 2014 15 Annual Report and Financial The Committee gave consideration to the between the narrative reporting in the Statements is fair, balanced and presentation of the financial statements and in front and the financial reporting in understandable, and whether it provides the particular the presentation of the Non-GAAP the back of the report, and does the information necessary for shareholders to measures in accordance with the Group messaging re ected in each remain assess the Groups performance, business accounting policy.
This policy states that consistent when read independently model and strategy.
adjustments are only made to reported pro t of each other?
before tax where income and charges are As the Chairman advised in his opening Is the Annual Report properly a document one-off in nature, signi cant, and distort the statement, the structure of the report has for shareholders?
In the been updated this year to provide greater current year, management has included Are the statutory and adjusted measures focus on the key strategic messages in the pro t on property disposal, one-off pension explained clearly with appropriate Strategic Report.
Therefore, it was important credits, interest income on tax repayments, prominence?
for the Committee to ensure these changes restructuring costs, international store did not dilute the level of transparency Are the key judgements referred to in review, fair value movement of embedded in disclosure that we know is useful for the narrative reporting and the signi cant derivatives, strategic programme costs and stakeholders, and that the business issues reported in this Audit Committee the reduction in M&S Bank income for the continued to provide a clear message that Report consistent with the disclosures impact of the financial product mis-selling was re ective of the Company as a whole.
of key estimation uncertainties and provision within this category.
The Committee critical judgements set out in the A broad outline of the proposed changes has concluded that this presentation is financial statements?
to the Annual Report was given to the appropriate.
See note 5 on p100 Committee early in the planning process, How do these compare with the risks that RETIREMENT BENEFITS along with a similarly broad indication of Deloitte plan to include in their report?
The Committee received a full draft The Committee has reviewed the actuarial of the report some two weeks prior to the assumptions such as discount rate, in ation IS THE REPORT UNDERSTANDABLE?
meeting at which it would be requested rate, expected return of scheme assets and Is there a clear and understandable to provide its final opinion.
Feedback was mortality which determine the pension cost framework to the report?
provided by the Committee in advance of and the UK fide ned bene t scheme valuation, that meeting, highlighting any areas where Are the important messages highlighted and has concluded that they are appropriate.
the Committee believed further clarity was appropriately throughout the document?
The assumptions have been disclosed in the required.
The draft report was then amended financial statements.
See note 11 on p104 Is the layout clear with good linkage to incorporate this feedback prior to being throughout in a manner that re ects tabled at the Audit Committee meeting for REVENUE RECOGNITION IN the whole story?
RELATION TO REFUNDS, GIFT CARDS AND LOYALTY SCHEMES The Committee was provided with a list of the CONCLUSION Revenue accruals for sales returns and key messages included in the Annual Report, Following its review, the Committee was of deferred income in relation to loyalty scheme highlighting which were positive and which the opinion that the 2015 Annual Report redemptions and gift card and credit voucher were re ective of the challenges from the and Accounts is representative of the redemptions are estimated based on historical year.
A supporting document was also year and presents a fair, balanced and returns and redemptions.
The Committee provided speci cally addressing the following understandable overview, providing the has considered the basis of these accruals, listed points, highlighting where these could necessary information for shareholders to along with analysis of historical returns and be evidenced in the report.
assess the Groups performance, business redemption rates and has agreed with the When forming its opinion, the Committee model and strategy.
re ected on the information it had received and its discussions throughout the year.
SUPPLIER INCOME NEW DISCLOSURE In particular, the Committee considered: The Committee has considered the assessment made by management over the IS THE REPORT FAIR?
accounting for supplier rebate arrangements Is the whole story presented and has and has been actively involved in reviewing any sensitive material been omitted that the Groups controls in place in this area.
The Committee has reviewed in detail managements paper, which set out the Is the reporting on the business segments nature and value of these arrangements in the narrative reporting consistent with and the timing of recognition in the financial those used for the financial reporting in statements, along with the related Internal the financial statements?
The Committee is Are the key messages in the narrative satis ed with managements conclusion that re ected in the financial reporting?
there is no risk of material misstatement in the current and previous period.
In addition, Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate the Committee decided to enhance the level based on the financial reporting?
disclosures in relation to supplier income by publishing the accounting policy and disclosing the eff ects of supplier income on certain balance sheet accounts.
See note 17 on p112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE 50 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ASSURANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Board assumes ultimate responsibility The Board has delegated responsibility 3.
Other control agencies Responsible for for the eff ective management of risk across for reviewing the eff ectiveness of the maintaining control over critical areas of the Group, determining its risk appetite and Groups systems of internal control to the risk, the processes and controls of these tolerance as well as ensuring that each Audit Committee.
This covers all material agencies are tested by Internal Audit & Risk business area implements appropriate internal controls including financial, operational and during relevant audits.
An overview of these controls.
The Groups risk management compliance controls and risk management agencies and the manner in which they systems are designed to manage rather systems.
The Committee is supported by a provide assurance to the Committee is than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve number of sources of internal assurance indicated in the table below.
business objectives, and can only provide from within the Group in order to complete The Group was compliant throughout reasonable and not absolute assurance these reviews, in particular: the year with the provisions of the UK against material misstatement orloss.
Internal Audit & Risk The Groups Corporate Governance Code relating to primary source of internal assurance internal controls and the FRCs revised See p23-25 of the Strategic Report for more remains delivery of the Internal Audit Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
information on our material risks.
Plan, which is structured to align with the No signi cant failings or weaknesses were See p44-45 for further information on our Groups strategic priorities and key risks identi ed during the Committees review risk management processes.
and is developed by Internal Audit & in respect of the year ended 28 March 2015 Risk with input from management.
and up to the date ofthis Annual Report.
The key features of the Groups internal Recommendations from Internal Audit & Where the Committee identi ed areas control and risk management systems Risk are communicated to the relevant requiring improvement, processes are in that ensure the accuracy and reliability of business area for implementation of place to ensure that the necessary action financial reporting include clearly fide ned appropriate corrective measures, with istaken and that progress is monitored.
lines of accountability and delegation of results reported to the Committee.
authority, policies and procedures that Further details of these processes 2. Business Presentations Focusing primarily cover financial planning and reporting, can be found within our detailed on the key risks identi ed in the Group Risk preparing consolidated accounts, capital Corporate Governance Statement Pro le, management continues to provide expenditure, project governance and which is available to view in the updates to the Committee on how these information security, and the Groups Corporate Governance section of are managed in individual business areas.
Code of Ethics and Behaviours.
These are complemented by independent reviews conducted by Internal Audit & Risk.
Andy Halford Audit Committee Chairman INTERNAL ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK COMMITTEES Existing direct line ofreporting Fire, Health Plan A Business & Safety Continuity ANNUAL UPDATE BY RELEVANT EXECUTIVE REPORTS Formal updates Information Whistle Blowing GSCOP Bribery Code AUDIT Security & Fraud Grocery Supplier of Ethics COMMITTEE Code of Practice ANNUAL PAPER OTHER CONTROL AGENCIES Updates as requested Food Safety & Integrity Ethical Audits appropriate Trading Safely & Legally AUDIT TESTING BY INTERNAL AUDIT & RISK ASAPPROPRIATE Reports directly to the Group Board.
