52 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP Our governance framework as at 31 December 2015: Board of directors Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman Three executive directors Five independent non-executive directors Creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value Board committees Remuneration Audit Nominations Five independent Five independent Chairman, Chief Executive and five non-executive directors non-executive directors independent non-executive directors Determines the reward strategy for Monitors the integrity of the Groups Ensures the Board and senior management theexecutive directors and senior financial statements and the effectiveness team have the appropriate skills, knowledge management, to align their interests of the external and internal auditors and experience to operate effectively and to withthose of the shareholders deliver the Groups strategy Ethics and trade compliance Finance Chairman, one independent Three executive directors non-executive director and and the Chief Operating Officer threeexecutive directors Approves treasury-related activity, Ensures the implementation and application insurance and other matters delegated of the Ethics and Business Conduct and bythe Board Trade Compliance policies and programmes Management committees Group Executive Committee Commercial Committee Three executive directors, the Chief Operating Officer, Three executive directors, the Chief five senior functional executives Operating Officer and two other Group and five divisional presidents Executive Committee members Assists the Chief Executive to develop and implement the Reviews and approves bids and proposals Groups strategy, manage operations and discharge of Group significance and any other responsibilities delegated by the Board commercial activity 156768.01 Text 052-059 NEW-06.03.16.
indd 52 07 03 2016 04:26 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 53 The role of the Board the Chairman is responsible for i setting the Boards agenda: The Board retains full and effective control of the Group and ii ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of is collectively responsible for its success.
It sets the Groups agenda items including strategic issues: iii leading the Board: strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place to achieve and iv ensuring its effectiveness.
the Groups objectives and reviews performance regularly.
the Chairman facilitates the contribution of non-executive directors and oversees the relationship between them and the The Board is responsible for setting the Groups values and executive directors.
The Chairman holds meetings with standards and for ensuring obligations to shareholders, non-executive directors without executive directors present.
employees and other stakeholders are met.
the Chairman is responsible for ensuring directors receive A Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board updated in 2015 accurate, timely and clear information and is satisfied that sets out the matters on which the Board must make the final effective communication, principally by the Chief Executive decisions.
These include setting the Groups strategy and and Chief Financial Officer, is undertaken with shareholders.
approving the annual budget, changing the Groups capital the Chairman agrees apersonalised approach to the training structure and capital allocation policy, approving acquisitions and development of each director and reviews this regularly.
and disposals above acertain threshold and agreeing approval ofresults announcements, annual reports and dividends.
Senior Independent Director Ifadecision is not reserved for the Board, authority lies, in The role of Mr Heiden, as Senior Independent Director, is to: accordance with authorisation policies and terms of reference, make himself available to shareholders if they have concerns with aBoard committee, amanagement committee, the Chief that cannot be resolved through normal channels: Executive or other executive director, Chief Operating Officer, divisional president or site director.
chair the Nominations Committee when it is considering theChairman of the Boards succession: and Board membership and attendance during 2015 meet with the non-executive directors at least once ayear The Board met ten times in 2015 seven scheduled meetings, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
shown in the table below, and three unscheduled meetings.
Scheduled Non-executive directors meetings The non-executive directors: eligible to Meetings 1 Name Title attend attended play afull part by challenging executive management and 3 Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 6 6 contributing to the development ofthe Groups strategy: Mr G S Berruyer Non-executive director 7 7 scrutinise the performance ofexecutive management and 4 Mr P G Cox Non-executive director monitor the reporting of the Groups performance, the integrity 5 Mr C R Day Non-executive director 3 3 of financial information and the effectiveness of financial Ms A J P Goligher Non-executive director 7 7 controls and risk management systems: Mr P E Green Executive Director, 7 7 are responsible for determining appropriate levels of Commercial and remuneration for executive directors and participating in the Corporate Affairs selection and recruitment of new directors and succession Mr P Heiden Non-executive director 7 7 planning: and Ms B L Reichelderfer Non-executive director 7 7 have terms and conditions of appointment which are available 6 Sir Colin Terry Chairman 2 2 for inspection at the Companys registered office during Mr D R Webb Chief Financial Officer 7 7 normal business hours.
Mr S G Young Chief Executive Officer 7 7 7 Mr D M Williams Non-executive director 7 6 Company Secretary 1 The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is All of the directors attended the scheduled meetings in the year with the exception of Mr Williams who sent his apologies for the meeting held in amatter for the Board.
2 Three unscheduled meetings took place which were attended by all the The work of the Board in 2015 directors eligible to attend, except Mr Green and Mr Heiden who sent The Board visited several facilities and received regular reports apologies for one unscheduled meeting each owing to travel commitments, from executive management on strategy and business performance, and Mr Williams who sent his apologies for two unscheduled meetings.
financial performance including treasury activity and corporate 3 Appointed 1 March 2015. affairs including risk, legal and compliance.
The Board approved 4 Retired 31 January 2015. the appointment of Colin Day as anon-executive director.
The Board covered the following specific items during 2015: 7 Retired 31 December 2015. there was aBoard session dedicated to adetailed review Chairman anddiscussion of the Groups strategy.
The Groups strategy Sir Nigel Rudd met the independence criteria on appointment process was significantly enhanced in 2015: and as Chairman on 23 April 2015. there was greater focus on risk, including asession to review the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and approve the Groups risk appetite and aformal delegation and aclear division of responsibilities has been approved of authority to the Audit Committee to oversee the risk andagreed in writing by the Board.
These were reviewed management process.
andupdated by the Board in 2013.
indd 53 07 03 2016 04:26 54 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate governance report continued Annual Report.
Further details of the composition and operation The Board received and discussed: of these Committees are set out in the Audit Committee, divisional and functional updates and presentations Nominations Committee and Directors remuneration reports.
onoperational performance, Customer Services & Support aftermarket, M&A, engineering and technology, senior Appointments to the Board executive succession, operations, IT andinvestor relations: There is aformal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the the Groups strategic plan: appointment of new directors.
Full details of the process for reports on internal control, risk management and appointments made during the year are available in the goingconcern: and Nominations Committee report set out on page 59. reports on the activities of its committees.
Commitment The Board reviewed and approved: The letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive the 2016 budget: directors set out the time they are expected to commit.
These can be inspected during normal business hours at the the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, 2014 full-year results Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Othersignificant and 2015 interim results announcements: commitments of the Chairman and non-executive directors the May andOctober 2015 trading statements: are disclosed on appointment and requireapproval thereafter.
recommendations to shareholders on the final dividend Details of significant appointments for all of the Board members payment for the year ended 31 December 2014 and are provided on pages 50 to 51. approval of the interim dividend payment for the year ended31December 2015: Development The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge the acquisition of the Cobham and EDAC composites its duties.
businesses: the Groups risk appetite and risk register: Since Sir Nigel Rudd joined the Board, he has been through the conflicts of interest register for the Board: acomprehensive formal induction programme, including meetings with other directors, senior management, investors, the decision to suspend the share buyback programme: auditors, brokers and other professional advisors, as well as site fees payable to the Groups auditors and arecommendation visits in the UK and US and adetailed induction pack.
Mr Colin toshareholders on their reappointment: Day started asimilar induction process in October 2015 following a Corporate Responsibility Policy for the Group: and his appointment to the Board.
The Company Secretary, who a Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
facilitates the induction of new directors and assists with professional development where required, will continue to Since the year-end, up to the date of the Annual Report, the enhance the induction process following feedback from directors.
Board has approved the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the2015 full-year results announcement and the proposed Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and finaldividend for the year ended 31 December 2015. their training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation process.
Their knowledge and familiarity with the Group is During the year, no unresolved concerns were recorded in the facilitated by access to senior management, reports on the Boards minutes.
Resources are available to all directors to develop and update their knowledge andcapabilities.
Effectiveness Composition Information and support The Board considers it has agood balance of executive and The Chairman is responsible for ensuring directors receive non-executive directors, is of an appropriate size and has the accurate, timely and clear information.
The Company Secretary independence, skills, experience and knowledge to enable the is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities Board and Committees and between senior management and effectively.
All non-executive directors are considered non-executive directors.
The Board members have regular independent under the Code.
discussions about their information and support requirements, and are involved in setting the annual Board schedule.
All non-executive directors other than the Chairman are members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on The Board and its Committees have been provided with sufficient appointment.
All non-executive directors are asked to join the resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have had Nominations Committee on appointment.
Chairmanship of access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary Committees is considered during discussions on composition who is responsible to the Board for advising on all governance and succession.
No one other than Committee chairmen and matters.
The Board allows all directors to take external independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
members are entitled to attend the meetings, although others can be invited.
Committee chairmen, members and regular meeting Board performance evaluation invitees are noted in the respective Committee reports below.
The Board recognised that compliance with the UK Code on Each of these Committees written terms of reference were Corporate Governance would require an externally facilitated reviewed and updated in 2014 by the Board and are available on review in 2015.
However, following the appointment of Sir Nigel our website.
All Committee chairmen report orally on the Rudd as Chairman in April 2015, the Board considered this proceedings of their Committees at the next meeting of the matter and concluded that conducting an external review in 2016 Board.
Where appropriate, the Committee chairmen make would be more valuable and effective than an external evaluation recommendations to the Board on appropriate matters, for carried out in 2015 when the Chairman had only recently example, the fairness, balance and understandability of the assumed his role.
indd 54 07 03 2016 04:26 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 55 Accordingly, starting in December 2015 the Chairman led an in 2015.
The Chairman met anumber of investors at their request internal performance evaluation and appraisal process for the after the trading update issued in October 2015.
Board, its members and its main Committees.
The effectiveness Directors understanding of major shareholders views is review, carried out using questionnaires and group and individual enhanced by reports from the Head of Investor Relations, our discussions, covered strategy, risk management, the annual brokers and attending analysts briefings.
Analysts notes on the Board schedule, composition, succession, the appointment Group are made available to all directors.
process, diversity, remuneration, audit and open channels ofcommunication.
We provide annual reports and other documents to shareholders in their elected format under the electronic communications The Board continues to be thoroughly engaged with the review provisions approved by shareholders at our AGM in 2007. process.
Areport summarising the findings of the evaluation Electronic copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2015 and was discussed by the Board and Committees at their meetings the Notice of AGM will be posted on our website, with in February 2016.
The main findings and recommendations of announcements, press releases and other investor information, the 2015 evaluation were: i continuing to improve the Boards including an analysis of ordinary shareholders by size of holdings involvement in the strategy process, which was already and shareholder type.
enhanced in 2015 with the introduction of adetailed Board strategy session: ii conducting more site visits in 2016 as some Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting had been postponed in 2015 owing to the appointment of the The Board uses the AGM to communicate with its shareholders.
new Chairman and increasing contact with senior executives Proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide other than those on the Board: iii continuing to enhance and shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote on embed the risk management process: and iv enhancing the resolutions or to withhold their vote.
All proxy votes for, against successionprocess.
and withheld are counted by the Companys Registrars and the level of voting for, against and withheld on each resolution is Accountability made available after the meeting and on the Groups website.
Financial and business reporting The proxy form and the voting results announcement make it The financial statements contain an explanation of the directors clear that avote withheld is not avote in law and will not be responsibilities in preparing the Annual Report and the financial counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and statements pages 83 to 84 and astatement by the auditors against the resolution.
The directors also report that the business is agoing concern page 84 and detail Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on substantially how the Group generates and preserves value over the longer separate issues and there is aresolution relating to the financial term the business model and the Groups strategy for delivering statements.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to its objectives in the Strategic report pages 1 to 47.
The directors shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
have also made astatement about the long-term viability of the Meggitt encourages shareholders to vote at the AGM and Group, as required under the Code page 29. provides afacility for electronic proxy voting.
Shareholders who are not CREST members can vote online on resolutions proposed Remuneration at the AGM via our website, after voting has opened.
Proxy cards The Directors remuneration report is on pages 60 to 80.
It sets contain further details on how and when to vote and further out the activities of the Committee and provides details of the information for CREST members.
remuneration policy which was approved at our AGM in 2014, andhow it has been implemented in 2015.
The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees are available at the AGM to respond to questions.
It is customary for all other directors to attend.
Relations with shareholders The Group values its dialogue with institutional and At the AGM to be held on 21 April 2016, in addition to the routine privateinvestors.
business, shareholder consent will be sought on the authority to convene general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance The Board communicates with private investors via direct with the Articles on the terms set out in the Notice of Meeting.
communication with our Head of Investor Relations and the Company Secretary and content distributed or made available All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first onthe investor relations section of our website and at the AGM AGM after their appointment and are subject after that to see below.
re-election annually to comply with the Code.
All directors in office at the date of the AGM will be subject to election or Effective communication with fund managers, institutional re-election.
investors and analysts about the Groups strategy, performance and policies is promoted by meetings involving, principally, the By order of the Board Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives and discusses reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Investor Relations on the views of shareholders, which are discussed.
M L Thomas The Chairman and other non-executive directors are available Company Secretary to attend meetings with shareholders.
Aspecific letter was 22 February 2016 issued to major shareholders after the AGM in 2015, offering ameeting with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Several such meetings on corporate governance took place 156768.01 Text 052-059 NEW-06.03.16.
