50 50 M ME EG GG GI IT TT T P PL LC C R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND D A AC CC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 01 15 5 B Bo oa ar rd d o off d diir re e c ctto orr ss Meggitts Board is characterised by world-class experience of UK, mainland European and North American businesses spanning multiple sectorsmany with global reach.
Stephen Young Colin Day Sir Nigel Rudd Guy Berruyer Alison Goligher Sir Nigel Rudd DL Stephen Young Colin Day Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2015 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2015 | Nationality: British Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director Skills and experience in 2004, prior to appointment as Chief Executive Skills and experience Chartered accountant with extensive Board Chartered certified accountant with significant experience spanning multiple sectors including Skills and experience experience in senior operational and financial roles aerospace, retail and financial services.
Chartered management accountant with wide gained across avariety of sectors including experience in all financial disciplines gained from engineering and technology, pharmaceuticals, oil Current appointments national and multi-national businesses across and gas and aerospace.
Non-Executive Chairman of BBA Aviation plc.
Current appointments Appointments in unlisted entities: Non-Executive Current appointments Chief Executive of Essentra PLC formerly Filtrona Chairman of Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee Chairman PLC and Non-Executive Director of Amec Foster due to retire in September 2016 and Aquarius and member of Risk and Remuneration committees Wheeler plc.
Platinum Ltd and Non-Executive Director of of Derwent London plc.
Appointments in unlisted entities: Previous appointments Non-Executive Director of FM Global.
Previous appointments Senior financial positions held previously Chief Executive of Williams Holdings plc.
Chairman includeGroup Finance Director, Thistle Hotels plc Previous appointments of Kidde plc, BAA Limited, The Boots Company, and Group Finance Director of the Chief Financial Officer, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Pilkington PLC, Pendragon PLC and Invensys plc.
Group Finance Director of Aegis Group plc, Deputy Chairman of Barclays PLC and NonNon-Executive Director of WPP plc, Easyjet plc, Guy Berruyer Executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
Imperial Tobacco Group plc and Cadbury plc.
Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2012 | Nationality: French Alison Goligher OBE Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Appointed: 2014 | Nationality: British Trained as electrical engineer at the cole Polytechnique Fdrale fide Lausanne and holds Skills and experience Harvard Business School MBA.
Brings significant MEng Petroleum Engineering.
Brings specific oil and experience to the Board as arecently serving gas experience to the Board, including technology FTSE-100 Chief Executive.
management expertise and experience running diverse functions and businesses within globally Current appointments significant energy corporations.
Appointments in unlisted entities: Chairman of Linaro Limited since October 2015 and amember of Current appointments the Council of the University of Southampton.
Previous appointments Previous appointments Group Chief Executive of The Sage Group plc until Various roles at Royal Dutch Shell from 2006 to 5 November 2014.
Chief Executive of Sage Group 2015, most recently, Executive Vice President, plcs Europe and Asia division.
Early career spent Upstream International Unconventionals.
Previously with software and hardware vendors in French spent seventeen years at Schlumberger, asupplier and other European management roles.
of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to oil and gas Committee membership customersworldwide.
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee Finance Committee 156768.01 Text 048-051 NEW-06.03.16.
indd 50 07 03 2016 04:22 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 51 Philip Green Brenda Reichelderfer Paul Heiden Doug Webb Philip Green Brenda Reichelderfer Executive Director, Commercial and Non-Executive Director Corporate Affairs Appointed: 2011 | Nationality: American Appointed: 2001 | Nationality: British Skills and experience Skills and experience Skilled engineer and business leader Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries withconsiderable US aerospace and and Administrators, with significant legal and industrialexperience.
Current appointments Current Appointments Non-Executive Director of Federal Signal Appointments in unlisted entities: Corporation and Chairman of their Compensation Non-Executive Director of Poole Hospital NHS and Benefits Committee and Non-Executive Foundation Trust since 25 April 2015, Deputy Director of Moog, Inc.. Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Audit Appointments in unlisted entities: Senior Vice and Governance Committee since 1 December 2015.
President and Managing Director of private equity Member of the GC100 and the Dorset Employment sector consulting firm TriVista.
Previous appointments Previous appointments Senior roles at ITT Industries Corporation including Meggitts Company Secretary from 1994 to 2006, Senior Vice President, Director of Engineering, after 14 years at British Aerospace in company Chief Technology Officer and Group President secretarial roles.
Non-Executive Director of Wencor Aerospace.
Paul Heiden Non-Executive Director Doug Webb Senior Independent Director Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 2010 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British Skills and experience Skills and experience Chartered accountant, with considerable experience Chartered accountant who has held senior in senior executive and financial roles in aerospace.
international financial positions in defence, Current appointments aerospace, engineering, technology and Senior Independent Director and Chairman of financialservices.
the Audit Committee of London Stock Exchange Current appointments Group plc.
Non-Executive Chairman of Intelligent Non-Executive Director of SEGRO Plc, Chairman Energy Holdings plc.
oftheir Audit Committee and member of their Nominations Committee.
Appointments in unlisted entities: Non-Executive Chairman of A-Gas Orb Limited.
Appointments in unlisted entities: Member ofthe Hundred Group of Finance Directors and the Previous appointments Chief Executive of FKI Plc, senior positions, Investment Advisory Committee of Fitzwilliam including Director, Industrial Business and Finance College, Cambridge University.
Director of Rolls-Royce plc and senior financial Previous appointments positions with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Co, Chief Financial Officer of London Stock Exchange Hanson Plc and Mercury Communications.
Group Plc, QinetiQ Group Plc and various senior Non-Executive Director of UU Plc, Bunzl plc, financial roles in both the UK and US for Logica Essentra PLC formerly Filtrona PLC and now CGI.
Chairman of Talaris Topco Limited.
