STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 59 Nominations Committee report Chairmans introduction Board diversity The Nominations Committee plays aleading role in assessing The Board confirms astrong commitment to diversity including, the balance of skills and experience on the Board and the but not limited to, gender diversity at all levels of the Group.
The Committee identifies the Boards policy on diversity commits Meggitt to: roles and capabilities required to meet the demands of the ensuring the selection and appointment process for business and ensures that asuccession plan is in place.
employees and directors includes adiverse range of Candidates continue to be considered on merit against specific candidates: criteria determined by the Committee.
disclosing statistics on gender diversity in every Annual Report see page 46 : and Following arigorous search process using executive search firm reviewing this policy from time to time and continuing to The Zygos Partnership, Mr Colin Day was appointed as nondisclose this policy in the Annual Report.
Mr Day is achartered accountant and is currently Chief Executive at Essentra PLC and Based on the current size and composition of the Board and non-executive director at Amec Foster Wheeler plc and FM taking into account current succession plans, the Board has Global.
Mr Days extensive experience in senior financial roles determined that there should be aminimum of two female across arange of sectors including aerospace, engineering and directors, which is currently the case.
The Board remains technology, oil and gas and pharmaceuticals make him an committed to ensuring that the directors bring awide range of excellent addition to the Board.
There were other Board changes skills, knowledge, experience, backgrounds and perspectives.
Our directors are from the UK, US and France, and have arange of different skills and experience.
In 2016, the Committee will continue to review the composition of the Board and succession plans for executive and non-executive Succession directors, taking into account diversity and the skills, knowledge The Group operates asuccession planning process which and experience that will be of benefit to the Board in the future.
enables the identification and development of employees with the potential to fill key business leadership positions in the Group.
Committee membership and attendance during 2015 In 2015, the Board reviewed detailed executive succession plans Meetings Meetings for each division and function with the Group Organisational Name eligible to attend attended Development Director, including plans for the executive directors 1 Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 2 2 and each member of the Group Executive Committee.
Each Mr S G Young 3 3 individual on the succession plan has regular performance Mr G S Berruyer 3 3 reviews and individual development plans.
2 Mr P G Cox 3 Board composition and succession for the Chairman and Mr C R Day non-executive directors is regularly discussed by the Ms A J P Goligher 3 3 Nominations Committee.
Mr P Heiden 3 3 Ms B L Reichelderfer 3 3 4 Sir Colin Terry 1 1 Evaluation 5 Mr D M Williams 3 2 The Committee performed an internal evaluation using the process described on page 55.
The results of the evaluation were 1 Appointed 1 March 2015. generally positive.
Although the succession planning process 2 Retired 31 January 2015. had been enhanced in 2015, the need for continued improvement 3 Appointed 1 October 2015. was noted during the Board evaluation.
Mr Williams sent his apologies for one Committee meeting.
External search consultancies During 2015, the Committee used The Zygos Partnership to Terms of reference assist in the search for anon-executive director.
The Zygos The Committee operates within agreed Terms of Reference.
Partnership has no other connection with the Group.
These were reviewed and updated in 2014 and are published On behalf of the Nominations Committee onour website.
Responsibilities The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and, in consultation with the directors, makes recommendations to the Board on any proposed changes.
Decisions on Board changes are taken by the Board as awhole.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the Sir Nigel Rudd services of the Company Secretary and may seek external Chairman of the Nominations Committee professional advice at the Groups expense.
