56 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Audit Committee report Terms of Reference The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which outline the key responsibilities of the Committee, were last updated in 2014 and are available on our website.
Work of the committee In 2015, the Audit Committee: reviewed the financial information contained in the 2014 Annual Report and 2014 full-year and 2015 interim results announcements and recommended them to the Board for approval: reviewed the 2015 external audit fees, and recommended Chairmans introduction them to the Board for approval: discussed the external audit strategy memorandum and I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2015. interim audit clearance report for 2015: I chair the Audit Committee and as aFellow of the Association of reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external Chartered Certified Accountants, current Chief Executive Officer auditors, agreed their terms of engagement and fees: ofEssentra plc, and previously Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt received reports from internal audit at each meeting, Benckiser Group plc, I can confirm that I bring recent and discussed significant items and the effectiveness of internal relevant financial experience to the Committee.
I took over the audit, and approved the internal audit plan for 2016: Chairmanship of the Committee from David Williams on my appointment on 1October 2015 and chaired my first meeting in received an IT audit update from Grant Thornton LLP: December 2015. received atax update from the Head of Tax and Treasury: Committee members throughout 2015 were Guy Berruyer, Alison received technical accounting and governance updates Goligher, Paul Heiden and Brenda Reichelderfer.
Phil Cox and provided by theGroup Financial Controller, Company David Williams were also on the Committee, retiring on Secretary and the external auditors: 31 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 respectively.
The reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of Committee would like to thank Phil Cox and David Williams, internal control: particularly for the significant contribution made by David in his role as Chairman of the Committee.
took responsibility for oversight of the risk management process, aduty which was delegated to the Committee by the By invitation, there were anumber of other regular attendees Board in 2015: including the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the internal and external auditors.
The Chairman of the Board, took responsibility for the oversight of the process executive the Chief Executive and the Executive Director, Commercial & management used to enable the Board to make the viability Corporate Affairs also attended each meeting by invitation.
statement: and The Audit Committees key role is to engender confidence in the reviewed the effectiveness of the Committee and internal integrity of our processes and procedures relating to internal audit using the process described on page 55.
There were no financial control and corporate reporting.
The Board relies on significant findings and the Committee confirmed it was the Committee to review financial reporting and to appoint and satisfied with the outcome of the evaluation.
oversee the work of the internal and external auditors.
Since the year end, the Committee has approved the 2015 Annual The work of the Committee in 2015 is described below in detail.
Report and Accounts and full-year results announcement and Itincluded advising the Board on whether these accounts are recommended them to the Board for approval and provided advice fair, balanced and understandable, review of the work carried out to the Board that the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as by executive management on the viability statement and taking awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
TheCommittee on responsibility for oversight of the risk management process provided this advice having verified and confirmed the from the Board.
managements process and its output, and provided confirmation to Committee membership and attendance the Board that this process was effective.
The Committee also recommended that the Board approve the viability statement, Meetings Meetings Name eligible to attend attended having overseen the viability statement process throughout the year 1 1 as described on page 29 and confirmed their agreement to Mr C R Day Committee chairman propose the reappointment of the external auditors to Mr G S Berruyer 3 3 1 shareholders for the 2016 financial year.
Mr P G Cox 3 3 Ms A J P Goligher 3 3 Mr P Heiden 3 3 Ms B L Reichelderfer 2 Mr D M Williams 3 3 1 Retired 31 January 2015.
indd 56 07 03 2016 04:26 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 57 Significant judgements relating to the financial statements The table below summarises the significant judgements reviewed by the Committee in respect of the Groups financial statements.
There were no new areas of significant judgement in2015.
Significant judgements Action Goodwill and other The principal judgements are managements determination of the level at which impairment testing intangible assets arising should be performed, the achievability of CGU business plans and therefore future cash flows, on an acquisition growth rates beyond the period covered by the five-year business plans and the appropriateness of the discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Committee addressed this through consideration of areport from management setting out the basis for the assumptions, confirmation that the cash flows used were derived from the 2016 budget and strategic plan which intheir role as members of the Board, committee members had previously reviewed, asensitivity analysis on key assumptions and an analysis of the headroom for each CGU.
The Committee noted the increased level of sensitivity analysis undertaken in view of the increased market volatility and its impact on the Groups results for 2015.
The Committee agreed the assumptions made by management were appropriate and that no impairment was required.
The Committee agreed with management that due to the proximity of the two acquisitions of businesses in 2015 to the balance sheet date, the fair value of net assets acquired would be finalised in 2016.
Development costs The Committee considered the method of testing for potential impairment used by management and and programme the aggregation of related intangible assets at an aircraft platform level.
The Committee addressed participation costs this through consideration of areport from management covering these areas, exposure to different platforms and asensitivity analysis onspecific programmes.
The Committee concluded that assumptions made by management were reasonable and the carrying value and estimated useful lives of the assets were appropriate.
Provision for environmental The Committee considered areport from management setting out the basis for the judgements matters relating to made and the extent to which these were supported by third party specialist advice.
The Committee historicsites and related discussed with management the sensitivity of amounts recorded to increases in cost estimates, insurance receivables including the impact on insurance policy limits, and to changes in discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Committee agreed with the judgementsmade by management.
Provision for onerous The key areas reviewed by the Committee were the provision held for the supply from avendor of noncontracts and other matters conforming raw material identified in 2013 and the impact of Heatrics local content provider in Brazil having received Court approval for its restructuring plan.
TheCommittee considered areport from management setting out the bases for the judgements madeon each of these items.
The Committee agreed with the accounting treatment adopted.
Retirement benefit Assumptions on mortality, inflation and the rates at which scheme liabilities are discounted can obligations have asignificant impact on the value at which retirement benefit obligations are included in the financial statements.
The Committee considered areport from management setting out the basis on which the 2015 assumptions had been determined and how the Groups assumptions used in its 2014 financial statements benchmarked against those disclosed by other large corporate entities.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions used, whichwere supported by third party actuarial advice, were appropriate.
Income taxes Judgements have to be made by management on the tax treatment of anumber of transactions in advance of the ultimate tax determination being known.
In determining the appropriateness of the estimates made, the Committee considered areport from management setting out the basis for thejudgements including the release of provisions held against prior period tax uncertainties.
The Committee concluded that the position taken was appropriate.
Treatment of items excluded The Committee discussed the treatment and disclosure of costs and income included within from underlying profit exceptional operating items and merger and acquisition M&A related items, together with the measures exclusion from underlying profit of gains made from remeasurement of the share buyback close period commitment and the Groups new cross currency and treasury lock derivatives.
The Committee noted items were treated appropriately and, where applicable, consistently year on year.
The Committee also discussed each of the above judgements with the external auditors before reaching their conclusions.
indd 57 07 03 2016 04:26 58 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Audit Committee report continued The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related Key areas of oversight and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the External audit office of PwC conducting the audit or PwC as awhole and The external auditors are  LLP PwC therefore the objectivity and independence of the external who were appointed as Group auditors for the financial year auditors was not compromised.
commencing 1 January 2003 on 2 October 2003 after acompetitive tender.
There are no contractual obligations Internal audit restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
The Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan which is The lead audit partner is Mr Andrew Paynter whose appointment developed according to arisk assessment process and ensures in thisrole commenced with the audit for the financial year ended that adequate resources are available to execute the plan.
Mr Paynter has had no previous involvement risk assessment process divides our business units into three with the Group in any capacity.
tiers determined by financial measures, but subject to adiscretionary risk based adjustment if there are circumstances The Committee assessed the effectiveness of PwC and the which suggest asite should have an audit accelerated.
Tier 1 external audit process using aquestionnaire and aCommittee businesses are visited annually, with Tier 2 businesses visited discussion on the responses to the questionnaire.
TheCommittee every other year and Tier3 businesses every third year.
was satisfied with PwCs performance and the external audit process and that they had employed an appropriate level of At each meeting, the Committee receives astatus update on the professional challenge in fulfilling their role and there were no audit programme and discusses and challenges any significant significant findings from the evaluation process.
The Committee issues arising and monitors implementation by the businesses of has determined, on the basis of the satisfactory outcome of the any recommendations made.
In 2015, internal audits were evaluation, that the external audit will not be subject to tender carried out at over 25 Group sites, including the finance shared in 2016.
It has recommended that the Board submit the reservice centres, as part of the 3 year rotational audit cycle.
appointment of PwC to shareholders for approval at the Internal audits remit was expanded in 2014 to include IT, using AGM in 2016. the services of Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The 2015 IT audit scope The Committee reviewed recent tendering and rotation provisions included reviews of IT security and our SAP enterprise resource from the EU and Competition and Markets Authority, and has also planning and HR systems.
taken into account the length of appointment of the incumbent The Committee routinely meets internal audit without executive auditors but balanced against their continued effectiveness.
No concerns have been raised and it was Committee intends to put the external audit for the financial year confirmed that the internal auditors had been able to carry out ending 31 December 2018 out to tender and to commence that their work and offer constructive challenge to executive process in 2017.
This is in the best interests of the Company as it management during the year.
The Committee considered the ensures continuity of audit services until the end of the current effectiveness of internal audit and confirmed that they audit partner rotation period.
This plan is subject to any other weresatisfied.
changes to the regulatory regime and the Committee continuing to be satisfied with the effectiveness of the auditors, which is Whistleblowing evaluated annually.
The Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee is responsible The Committee routinely meets PwC without executive management forreviewing the process for handling allegations from present and no concerns have been raised.
It was confirmed that the whistleblowers.
In February 2016, the Ethics and Trade external auditors had been able to offer rigorous and constructive Compliance Committee confirmed that it was satisfied with the challenge to executive management during the year.
Groups process for handling whistleblowing allegations.
Whistleblowing is included in our Ethics and Business Conduct Non-audit services Policy and Code of Conduct, which are available on our website.
The Group places great importance on the independence of its The Group sponsors an independently operated and monitored external auditors and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not Ethics Line, enabling employees to report concerns about compromised.
The Committee agrees the fees paid to external possible misconduct, with proportionate and independent auditors for their services as auditors and is required to approve, in investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
Whistleblowing advance, any fees to the external auditors for non-audit services in reports are received regularly by the Ethics and Trade excess of 0.1 million.
Compliance Committee as part of the report from the Executive Director, Commercial and Corporate Affairs.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the consolidated Compliance with audit services order financial statements.
The fees paid for non-audit services in 2015 We comply with the Competition and Market Authority Order 2014 were less than 0.1 million 1% of the total audit fee and the average relating to the audit tendering and the provision of non-audit fees paid for non-audit services for the last three years to 2015 were services, as discussed further above.
Nil million 2% of the total audit fee over that period.
Fees paid for On behalf of the Audit Committee non-audit services related to services allowed to be provided by PwC under the Groups policy on non-audit services.
The Groups policy on non-audit services covers the services that can be provided and which generally cannot be provided for Colin Day example internal audit services and tax planning.
The full policy Chairman of the Audit Committee is disclosed on our website under Audit Committee in the 22 February 2016 Governance section.
