Melrose Industries PLC Governance 58 Annual Report 2015 Audit Committee Report reviewing and considering the Annual Report and financial John Grant statements to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable Audit Committee Chairman and advising the Board on whether it can state that this is the case.
Composition Each member of the Committee is deemed to be independent by the Company and brings recent and relevant financial experience from senior executive and non-executive positions as described in their biographies on pages 48 and 49.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external and internal auditors to attend meetings where appropriate to the The responsibilities of the Audit Committee business being considered.
The Committee has the right to invite any other Directors and or employees to attend meetings where the Committee include overseeing this is considered appropriate.
In addition, the Committee meets financial reporting, risk management and at least once per year with both the external and internal auditors internal controls, in addition to making without management present.
recommendations to the Board regarding Summary of meetings in the year the appointment of the Companys internal The Committee is expected to meet not less than three times and external auditors.
In 2015, the Committee met in March, July and November.
The scheduling of these meetings is designed to be aligned with Member No.
of meetings the financial reporting timetable, thereby enabling the Committee John Grant Chairman 3 3 to review the Annual Report and financial statements, the interim Perry Crosthwaite 3 3 financial report and the audit plan ahead of the year-end audit Justin Dowley 3 3 and to maintain a view of the internal controls and processes Liz Hewitt 3 3 throughout the year.
The release of the interim results was brought forward from August to July 2015, to align with the announcement relating to the sale of the Elster businesses.
Role and responsibilities The attendance of its members at these meetings is shown in The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms the table opposite.
These were updated in December 2015 in line with best practice and are available on the Companys website and Significant issues related to the financial statements from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
In discharging its duties under its terms of reference, the Committee In discharging its duties, the Committee embraces its role of protecting undertook the following recurring activities that receive annual scrutiny: the interests of shareholders with respect to the integrity of financial information published by the Company and the effectiveness of the reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements and interim audit.
Specifically, the Committee is responsible for: financial report, including the going concern assumption and the assessment forming the basis of the longer-term viability statement.
reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial statements As part of this review the Committee received reports from of the Group, including the Annual Report and interim report: the external auditor on their audit of the Annual Report and keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial financial statements and their review of the interim financial report: reporting, risk management and internal control systems and considered the processes in place to generate forecasts of compliance controls: cash flows and accounting valuation information, including the monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the internal audit reasonableness and consistent use of assumptions: function: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management reviewing and challenging the going concern assumption and the and internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report assessment forming the basis of the longer-term viability statement: and financial statements on this matter: focusing and challenging the consistency of accounting policies, considered the Annual Report and financial statements in the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions context of being fair, balanced and understandable and reviewed and compliance with accounting standards: the content of a paper prepared by management with regard to this principle in relation to the 2015 Annual Report and financial reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise statements.
The Committee advised the Board that, in its view, concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial the 2015 Annual Report and financial statements when taken reporting, in accordance with the Companys whistleblowing policy: as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy on the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness performance, business model and strategy: and of the auditor: and reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the internal auditor and the external auditor.
Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 59 In addition to these matters, the Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the financial statements during the year: The Audit Committees activities during 2015 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and Budget plans prepared by management, which support the future performance other fixed assets expectations used in the calculation, were approved by the executive Directors.
The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment testing The Committee challenged the outcome of the impairment review performed by relate to the assumptions applied in calculating the value in management.
use of the cash-generating units being tested for impairment.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external auditor, The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the who reported their findings to the Committee.
future performance expectations of the cash-generating units.
The Committee considered managements approach, the assumptions applied The Committee has also considered the related disclosures in relation to the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other fixed assets within the financial statements.
and related disclosures and, having taken input from the external auditor, agreed Refer to notes 3 and 12 with managements impairment assessment.
Provisions for legal and environmental claims and The Committee considered managements proposed provisioning in respect other provisions of these legal and environmental claims and other provisions including the key The level of provisioning for legal and environmental claims judgements made and relevant legal advice.
and other provisions requires significant judgement.
The external auditor also reported on all material provisions to the Committee.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis Having considered the matter and sought guidance from the external auditor, and adjusted for managements best current estimates, the Committee concluded that managements proposed provisioning and the the judgemental nature of these items means that future associated disclosures in the Annual Report were appropriate.
amounts settled may be different from those provided.
Refer to notes 3 and 20 Classification of exceptional items The Committee considered the nature, classification and consistency of exceptional The reporting, classification and consistency of exceptional items.
These items were detailed in the external auditors paper to the Committee.
items, specifically restructuring, were an area of continued The Committee considered this issue and concluded that these exceptional items focus for the Committee.
were appropriately captured and disclosed.
Refer to note 6 Disposal of Elster The Companys accounting treatment of the divestment of the Elster Group and The Companys accounting treatment of the disposal the FKI UK and McKechnie UK defined benefit pension plans was examined by of the Elster net assets and the disposal of the FKI UK the Committee.
and McKechnie UK defined benefit pension plans.
The Committee considered managements approach and, having taken input from the external auditor, agreed that it was appropriate.
Taxation risks and recognition of deferred tax assets Managements taxation judgements, accounting treatment and the appropriateness Judgement is required in determining the Groups income of tax disclosures have been reviewed by the Committee.
statement tax charge and its provision for income taxes The Committee reviewed the tax implications of corporate transactions undertaken including estimating tax provisions where additional current during the year.
The tax risks and provisions, particularly those relating to audits tax may become payable in the future following the audit by by non-UK tax authorities, were also examined.
The Committee also reviewed the tax authorities of previously filed tax returns.
Judgement the Groups recognised UK deferred tax asset and the key judgements which is also required as to whether a deferred tax asset should be underpinned this.
recognised based on the availability of future taxable profits.
Having taken input from the external auditor, the Committee agreed with Refer to notes 3, 8 and 21 managements proposed treatment of tax risks and deferred tax assets.
External auditor rotation The Committee considered a paper which highlighted the developing regulatory and The Group is required to comply with developing regulatory governance framework, the expected timeline and relevant impact on the Group.
requirements in respect of external auditor rotation.
A new audit signing partner took office following the conclusion of the audit process As noted below, the external auditor is required to rotate in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014. the audit signing partner every five years.
Non-audit fees The Committee received an update on the latest guidance on the new rules governing Under new EU and Competition Commission rules, effective the provision of non-audit services and considered the impact on the Group.
from 17 June 2016, new restrictions on non-audit services A policy on the engagement of the external auditor for the supply of non-audit services will apply.
is in place and, in line with best practice, is subject to regular review.
The Committee closely monitors the non-audit services provided by the incumbent external auditor to ensure that these are appropriate.
Melrose Industries PLC Governance 60 Annual Report 2015 Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committees activities during 2015 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee Risk management and internal control The Committee received updates during the year from senior management on the Monitored the risk management and the internal control Companys risk management framework and internal control systems.
systems and conducted a review of their effectiveness.
The Committee also received a presentation from senior management on the risk management framework and on the financial, operational and compliance controls in place.
The Committee considered the risk management and internal control systems and concluded that they were effective and reported this to the Board.
Going concern and viability The Committee reviewed and supported managements recommendation to Assessment of the going concern assumptions and the prepare accounts on a going concern basis.
basis of the viability statement.
The Committee also considered papers prepared by management detailing the qualifications, assumptions, scenario modelling, sensitivity analysis and judgements which underpinned the longer-term viability statement to be included in the 2015 Annual Report.
The Committee concurred with the assumptions and judgements made by management and concluded that the longer-term viability statement was appropriate.
Risk management and internal control The Committee has reviewed the external auditors performance During 2015, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of the and effectiveness.
For 2015, the chairman of the Committee Groups risk management and internal control systems through worked with the Company Secretary to develop a series of regular updates from management and a review of the key findings questions covering the key areas of the audit process that the presented by the external and internal auditors.
Committee is expected to have an opinion over, including: In accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the UK Corporate the calibre, continuity, experience, resources and technical and Governance Code, the Board instructed the Committee to industry knowledge of the engagement partner and of the wider undertake a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk external audit team: management and internal control systems, covering all material the planning and execution of the audit process: controls including financial, operational and compliance controls.
the quality and timeliness of communications from the external This review took the form of management presentations followed auditor: by a Committee discussion.
The Company Secretary briefed the Committee on the key elements of the Melrose risk management the quality of support provided to the Committee by the external framework including an updated risk strategy, a best practice audit partner: risk register with risk mapping and profiling application, an the degree to which the external auditor and the audit process education and training programme and an audit and assurance has contributed to improvements in financial reporting to process.
Management then reported on the Groups internal Melroses shareholders: and control systems.
Samples of both Group and business unit controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The Groups risk management The Committee, along with relevant members of the management and internal control systems were reviewed and the Committee team, were requested to complete a questionnaire containing concluded that these systems were effective.
The Company Secretary subsequently produced reported its conclusions to the Board at the next scheduled a report summarising the responses.
Based on this report, the Board meeting.
Committee concluded that the quality of the external audit team remains very high, the external audit process is operating effectively External audit and Deloitte LLP continues to prove effective in its role as external Appointment, re-appointment and assessment auditor.
of effectiveness As detailed on the following page, the Committee regularly monitors The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
Deloitte to the re-appointment of the external auditor.
In making these LLP was appointed in 2003 when the Company commenced recommendations, the Committee considers auditor effectiveness trading and the external audit has not been formally tendered and independence, partner rotation and any other factors which since then.
The Committee is satisfied that the effectiveness and may impact the external auditors re-appointment.
independence of the external auditor is not impaired in any way.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit signing partner There are no legal or contractual obligations that restrict the every five years.
The Groups audit signing partner changed as part Groups capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment of that rotation process in 2015 following the conclusion of the audit as auditor and therefore a resolution proposing the re-appointment process in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014. of Deloitte LLP as external auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 61 Audit tendering Auditor objectivity and independence The Committee has considered the audit tendering provisions The Committee carries out regular reviews to ensure that auditor outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee objectivity and independence is maintained at all times.
A different has also reviewed the guidance provided by the European senior partner oversees the taxation audit of the Company Commission and the Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
compared to those working on the non-audit taxation services.
It is the Committees understanding that under the CMA and No fees were paid to Deloitte LLP on a contingent basis.
Based the EU rules rotation of the external audit firm is required by 2024. on these strict procedures, the Committee remains confident that It is the Committees intention to put the external audit out to auditor objectivity and independence have been maintained but tender in accordance with the CMA and the EU timeframes.
accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure that The current audit engagement partner was appointed in 2015 it does not compromise the auditors position.
and is not due to rotate until the year ending 31 December 2019.
At each year end, Deloitte LLP submits a letter setting out how The Committee remains satisfied with the quality, integrity and the it believes its independence and objectivity have been maintained.
effectiveness of the work undertaken by Deloitte LLP on behalf of As noted above, Deloitte LLP is also required to rotate the audit the Melrose shareholders.
Accordingly, it is not proposed to put the partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and audit out to tender at the present time but the matter will be kept significant subsidiary audits every seven years.
Internal audit Non-audit services Due to the size and complexity of the Group, it is appropriate Under new EU and Competition Commission rules, effective from for an internal audit programme to be used within the business.
17 June 2016, new restrictions on non-audit services will apply, BMHowarth, an external firm, provides internal audit services which will cap the level of permissable non-audit services awarded to the Group.
A rotation programme is in place, such that every to the external auditor at 70% of the average audit fee for the business unit will have an internal audit at least once every three previous three years.
It is the Committees understanding that years, with the largest sites being reviewed at least once every the cap applies prospectively and so will first apply in respect two years.
The rotation programme allows divisional managements of the Companys 2020 financial year.
actions and responses to be followed up on a timely basis.
The A policy on the engagement of the external auditor for the internal audit programme of planned visits is discussed and agreed supply of non-audit services is in place to ensure that the provision with the Committee during the year.
of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the independence or objectivity.
In accordance with best practice effectiveness of internal control systems, compliance with the FRC guidelines, the Company policy in relation to non-audit Groups Policies and Procedures Manual and a review of the services is kept under regular review it was re-examined during businesses Balance Sheets.
A report of key findings and 2014.
The policy outlines which non-audit services are prerecommendations is presented to the Group Finance Director and approved being those which are routine in nature, with a fee that the Head of Financial Reporting, followed by a meeting to discuss is not significant in the context of the audit or audit-related services, these key findings and to agree on resulting actions.
which services require the prior approval of the Committee and which services the auditor is excluded from providing.
The general A review of the internal audit process and scope of work covered principle is that the audit firm should not be requested to carry out by the internal auditor is the responsibility of the Committee, non-audit services on any activity of the Company where the to ensure their objectives, level of authority and resources audit firm may, in the future, be required to give an audit opinion.
are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under review.
A report of significant findings is presented by the internal auditor During 2015, the main non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP to the Committee at each meeting and implementation of were in relation to the Groups disposal of Elster, the introduction recommendations by the Board is followed up at the subsequent of the new Melrose Group holding company, taxation advice, Committee meeting.
The Committee also reviews BM Howarths compliance and planning services.
performance against the agreed internal audit programme.
An analysis of the fees earned by the external auditors for audit and non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
John Grant Chairman, Audit Committee 3 March 2016
