Melrose Industries PLC Governance 54 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Report meeting.
The Directors are able to seek further clarification and In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code information on any matter from any other Director, the Company and the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority, Secretary or any other employee of the Group whenever necessary.
this section of the Annual Report details the ways in which the Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with the Company has applied and complied with the principles and recommendations of its Committees and advice from external provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 December 2015. consultants, advisers and senior management.
In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC amended the Code with effect for accounting periods beginning on The Board has a fully-encrypted electronic board portal system, or after 1October 2014.
A copy of the revised Code is available at enabling Board, Committee and review papers to be delivered www.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporatesecurely and efficiently to Directors.
This facilitates a faster and governance.
aspx more secure distribution of information, accessed using electronic tablets and reduced resource usage.
The Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report, The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting Directors Remuneration Report and the risk management and the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance matters risks and uncertainties sections of the Strategic Report also form as well as ensuring a smooth flow of information to enable effective part of this Corporate Governance Report.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, through him, have access Statement of compliance to independent professional advice in respect of their duties, at the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company Companys expense.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary has applied and complied with the main principles, the supporting to the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee principles and the respective related provisions of the Code, and the Remuneration Committee.
with the exception of the following: D. 1.1 Schedule A of the Code recommends that grants under In accordance with its Articles and in compliance with the executive share options and other long-term investment Companies Act 2006, the Company has granted a qualifying third plans should normally be phased, rather than awarded in party indemnity to each Director.
This indemnity is provided both one block.
Grants under the 2012 Incentive Plan, details within the Companys Articles and through a separate deed of of which are set out on pages 68 to 70 of the Directors indemnity between the Company and each of the Directors.
The Remuneration Report, were awarded in one block, rather Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The 2012 Incentive Plan was recommended Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive as being in the best interests of shareholders as a whole The roles of Chairman and Vice-Chairman are, and will remain, by the Board and was approved by shareholders at separate to that of the Chief Executive of the Company, in a general meeting held on 11April 2012. accordance with best practice and Board policy.
All other aspects of the executive Directors remuneration The Chairman, with the assistance of the Vice-Chairman, fully comply with Schedule A of the Code.
is responsible for leadership of the Board.
The Chairman sets the Board agenda and ensures that adequate time is given to Main Principle A: Leadership the discussion of issues, particularly those of a strategic nature.
The Board Responsibility for ensuring effective communications are made Details of the structure of the Board and its key responsibilities to shareholders rests with the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and the are shown on pages 46 and 47. two other executive Directors.
There were four formally-scheduled Board meetings held during The Board notes, and confirms its satisfaction with, the choice the year and the attendance of each Director at these meetings is of an executive Chairman.
Christopher Miller, the current executive shown on page 56.
In addition, a number of unscheduled Board Chairman of the Group, is one of the founding members of Melrose, meetings were held during the year in connection with corporate having been a Director since its incorporation in 2003.
Christophers transactions, for example capital returns, restructurings, business long-standing involvement brings a wealth of experience to the divestments and, since the year end, the Return of Capital to Board and his oversight of corporate governance and compliance shareholders and the associated Share Capital Consolidation.
matters complements the work of the Groups non-executive Directors.
Christopher continues to play an active role in identifying In addition, business review meetings are held between scheduled and evaluating new opportunities for the Group.
There were three business review meetings held during the year.
The attendance of each Director at these review The Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction and meetings is set out on page 56.
These meetings are critical to decisions involving the day-to-day management of the Company.
providing the Directors with a comprehensive understanding of the Non-executive Directors current performance of, and the key issues affecting, the Groups The Companys non-executive Directors are encouraged to, businesses, without the formality or rigidity of a Board meeting.
and do, scrutinise the performance of the executive Directors Chief executives and other senior management from the Melrose in all areas, including on strategy, risks and financial information, businesses are periodically invited to attend and present to these meetings, providing the Directors with an opportunity to discuss through their roles on the Companys Committees, at the Boards each business directly and to develop relationships with their scheduled meetings and review sessions and on an ad hoc basis.
Main Principle B: Effectiveness A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each Board composition Director in advance of each Board, Committee or business review As at 2 March 2016, the Board comprised an executive Chairman, Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 55 to monitor this position but feels at the present time that John Grant three other executive Directors and four non-executive Directors.
continues to make an important contribution to the Company.
The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse business experience in areas complementary to the activities of the Company.
The non-executive Directors are not entitled to any cash bonus Biographies of the Directors are shown on pages 48 and 49 and or shares under the 2012 Incentive Plan.
on the Companys corporate website at www.
net Board induction, training and support These biographies identify any other significant appointments A full and formal induction programme tailored to the needs of held by the Directors.
None of the executive Directors hold individual Directors is provided for new Directors joining the Board.
non-executive positions outside the Company.
The primary aim of the induction programme is to introduce new Directors to, and educate new Directors about, the Groups The Board and the Nomination Committee undertake an annual businesses, its operations and its governance arrangements.
review of the time commitment required from both the executive Individual induction requirements are monitored by the Chairman and non-executive Directors.
The consensus view between the and the Company Secretary to ensure that new Directors gain Directors is that the current time commitment is appropriate.
sufficient knowledge to enable them to contribute to the Boards The Board notes that, following Perry Crosthwaites retirement as a deliberations as quickly as possible.
non-executive Director at the conclusion of this years AGM, the Board will consist of an executive Chairman, three other executive Directors Board visit and three non-executive Directors and, as a result, will temporarily have One of the outputs of the 2014 Board evaluation exercise was a greater proportion of executive Directors to non-executive Directors.
a desire to continue to incorporate into the Board schedule visits A search is currently underway for a new non-executive Director to major operating businesses and periodic sessions with senior and Stonehaven Associates, search and selection specialists, have management from the Groups businesses.
been engaged to support the recruitment process.
Aside from their In April 2015, the Board visited Brushs head office in Loughborough.
assistance with the recruitment process, Stonehaven Associates Meetings were held with senior management from across the Brush have no other connection with the Company.
businesses, which were complemented by a tour of the production facility and presentations focused on, among other things, market The Nomination Committee has agreed upon selection criteria position, drivers of competition, growth opportunities and financials.
for the role, which has then formed the basis of a shortlist.
The Nomination Committee is currently in the process of working Board evaluation through such a shortlist, using a rigorous and comprehensive Evaluation approach and process weighted scoring system to select the candidate most appropriate During 2015, the Chairman held meetings with each of the for the position.
An appointment is expected to be made during 2016.
Directors, including the senior non-executive Director, to discuss Whilst the recruitment process continues, the Board is satisfied the performance of individual Directors and the Board as a whole.
that there will be sufficient challenge by non-executive Directors of executive management in meetings of the Board and that no After two years of  Board evaluation exercises individual or small group of individuals dominates its decision making.
supported by Lintstock Limited, a specialist governance consultancy, the Board decided that a more free-ranging Non-executive Director independence discussion was merited for 2015.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, consideration has A range of topics were discussed including: Board mix, profile been given to the independence of all non-executive Directors.
The and diversity, succession planning, risk and internal controls, Board considers all of the non-executive Directors to be independent.
strategy, Board processes, future investor strategy and the Groups Under the Code, the Board is required to state its reasons if it preparedness at managing the cyber risks facing the business.
determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding the existence of any circumstances which may appear relevant The discussion also included a review of the actions agreed to its determination.
following the 2014 Board evaluation, and the steps taken in 2015 to address these needs: Perry Crosthwaite, currently the Boards senior non-executive Director, will retire from his position at the conclusion of this years Actions agreed from 2014 evaluation What we have delivered in 2015 AGM, having served three three-year terms as a non-executive Director.
Perrys role as a non-executive Director, and in particular To continue to plan Executive and non-executive succession for executive Director remains a core focus for the Nomination the length of his time in office, has been closely monitored by succession and Committee and for the Board.
Even though Perry has served as a non-executive managing the succession completed three three-year terms as a Director for more than nine years since the date of his first of non-executive non-executive Director of the Company, election, the Board has determined that he continues to maintain Directors Perry Crosthwaite will retire from his position his independence.
In addition, the Board has continued to at the conclusion of this years AGM.
A search benefit from Perrys invaluable experience in financial and and selection process is underway and the other corporate matters.
Perry will be replaced in the position appointment of a new non-executive Director of senior non-executive Director by John Grant.
is expected to be announced in the near future.
To continue to focus on Risk management and internal control The Board notes that John Grant, who was appointed as a nonrisk management and have been areas of focus in 2015.
A new executive Director on the Melrose Board in August 2006 and first internal control and to risk management framework has been elected at the 2007 AGM, will have served three, three-year terms delineate accountabilities implemented across the Group and there at the time of the 2016 AGM.
However, the Board is of the opinion between the Board and is now a clear delineation of accountabilities that, due to his invaluable financial and global executive experience the Audit Committee for risk management between the Board and gained in the automotive and other engineering sectors, John Grant Audit Committee, which is enshrined in the continues to maintain both his effectiveness and his independence reserved matters for the Board and the Audit as a non-executive Director of the Company.
The Board will continue Committees terms of reference.
Melrose Industries PLC Governance 56 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Following performance evaluations of each of the Directors Actions agreed from 2014 evaluation What we have delivered in 2015 and having carefully considered the commitments required and To continue visits to In April 2015, the Board attended a the contributions made by each Director, the Chairman is of the major operating units two-day site visit to Brushs head office in opinion that each Directors performance continues to be effective to ensure that the Board Loughborough.
In addition to reviewing the and continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Similarly, develops and maintains production facilities at the site, the Board following performance evaluations of the Chairman and having a sound knowledge of received a series of business briefings from carefully considered the commitments required and the the businesses within the Brush leadership team.
contributions made by the Chairman, the non-executive Directors, the Group and is visible led by the senior non-executive Director, are of the opinion that to the operations the Chairmans performance continues to be effective and that To increase the frequency Following the success of the programme he continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
of management of presentations given by the Elster Gas presentations so that the and Electricity leadership teams to the Board Attendance of Directors at meetings chief executive of each during 2014, the Board received a series of The following table shows the attendance of each of the Directors business reports to the briefings from the executive team at Brush as at the scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees Board annually part of the visit to the Brush site during 2015. held during the year.
The quorum necessary for the transaction To review the format The format and content of the information of business by the Board and each of its Committees is two.
and content of the received from the Groups businesses has Briefing papers and meeting agendas are provided to each management information been reviewed, with an increased focus Director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the provided to the Board on market overview information, including Board in conjunction with the recommendations of its Committees and in particular to competitor information.
consider the inclusion and advice from external advisers and senior management as of additional market appropriate.
The representations of any Director who is unable intelligence information to attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Committee are duly considered by those Directors in attendance.
Outputs of the evaluation The table also shows attendance at business review meetings Overall, the Board was satisfied with its performance, and agreed held between scheduled Board meetings.
that the Chairman and the senior non-executive Director continued to be very effective.
Attendance of Directors In order to continue and further enhance the Boards effectiveness, Business Board Audit Nomination Remuneration review the following areas were designated as the subject of management Number of 4 3 2 3 3 focus during 2016: 1 meetings the composition, expertise and diversity of the Board: Christopher Miller 4 2 3 succession planning for the executive Directors and senior David Roper 4 3 management and the Boards visibility of potential successors Simon Peckham 4 3 2 within the Group: and Geoffrey Martin 4 3 3 Perry Crosthwaite 4 3 2 3 3 risk management and internal control and, in particular, the John Grant 4 3 2 3 3 embedding of a culture of effective risk management across Justin Dowley 4 3 2 3 3 the Group.
Liz Hewitt 4 3 2 3 3 It was further recognised that cyber risk was an increasing area 1 I n addition, ad hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by a quorum of concern and would be focused on in 2016. of Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business.
2 Geoffrey Martin attends by invitation.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is anticipated that  Board evaluations will be carried out at least Main Principle C: Accountability once every three years.
The scope for each evaluation is designed Objectives and policy to build upon learning gained in the previous year to ensure that the The objectives of the Directors and senior management are to recommendations agreed in the evaluations are implemented and safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of that year-on-year progress is measured and reported upon.
the Group for the benefit of its shareholders.
Achievement of their Annual re-election of Directors objectives requires the development of policies and appropriate Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and in internal control frameworks to ensure the Groups resources are accordance with the provisions of the Code, all of the Directors managed properly and any key risks are identified and mitigated stood for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
exception of Perry Crosthwaite, who will be retiring from office with The Board is ultimately responsible for the development of the effect from the conclusion of the meeting, all current Directors of Groups overall risk management policies and system of internal the Company will be standing for re-election by shareholders at this control frameworks and for reviewing their respective effectiveness, years Annual General Meeting.
while the role of senior management is to implement these policies and frameworks across the Groups business operations.
The Directors recognise that the systems and processes established by the Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 57 Group operates and has in place appropriate measures to ensure The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance compliance.
A compliance framework is in place comprising for Directors set out in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, a suite of policies governing anti-bribery and anti-corruption, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
anti-money laundering, competition, trade compliance, data In accordance with this guidance, the Board assumes ultimate privacy, whistleblowing, document retention and joint ventures.
responsibility for risk management and internal controls, including These policies are in place within each business and apply determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to all directors, employees whether permanent, fixed-term, to take to achieve its strategic objectives its risk appetite and or temporary, pension trustees, consultants and other business ensuring an appropriate culture has been embedded throughout advisers, contractors, trainees, volunteers, business agents, the organisation.
The establishment of a revised risk management distributors, joint venture partners or any other person working and internal control system has been complemented by ongoing for or performing a service on behalf of the Company, its monitoring and review, to ensure the Company is able to adapt subsidiaries and or associated companies in which the Company to an evolving risk environment.
or any of its subsidiaries has a majority interest.
A separate Audit Committee Report is set out on pages 58 to 61 and provides details of the role and activities of the Committee and In addition, in conjunction with their internal audit function, its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
BM Howarth conduct compliance audits across the Group and its businesses to identify any areas for improvement.
Furthermore, an Managing and controlling risk anti-bribery and anti-corruption assurance exercise is undertaken Since 2014, the Groups approach to risk management has been by the Group on an annual basis.
The systems, processes and controls During 2015, the Company implemented an externally-hosted in place accord with the Code and the FRCs updated guidance.
whistleblowing hotline across the Group, together with a roll-out Details on the Groups risk management strategy are set out on of a Group-wide online compliance training platform, covering pages 28 and 29. topics such as antitrust, trade compliance and export controls, data Further information regarding the Groups financial risk objectives privacy, anti-bribery and anti-corruption and anti-money laundering.
and policies can be found in the Finance Directors review on pages Between its launch in November 2015 and 31 December 2015, 20 to 26.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties that 7,159 modules of the training platform were completed by could impact upon the Groups performance is set out on pages employees of the Group.
Main Principle D: Remuneration Internal financial controls and reporting Details regarding Directors remuneration, both generally and in The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the relation to the requirements of the Code, are set out in the Directors effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including strategic Remuneration Report, which is presented in the following three business planning and regular monitoring and reporting of financial sections: performance.
A detailed annual budget is prepared by senior management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration by the Board.
Committee, which can be found on pages 64 to 67: The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling the Annual Report on Remuneration, which can be found on forecast process and regular business review meetings are held pages 68 to 76: and with the involvement of senior management to assess performance.
The results of these reviews are in turn reported to and discussed the Directors remuneration policy, which can be found on pages by the Board at each meeting.
As discussed in the Audit Committee 76 to 81.
Report on page 61, the Group engages BM Howarth as internal auditor.
A total of 22 internal audit visits, covering 44.4% of Group Main Principle E: Relations with shareholders turnover, were completed during 2015.
It is intended that all Through regular meetings and presentations between the executive remaining Brush sites not visited in 2015 shall be visited in 2016.
Directors, analysts and institutional shareholders, including those following the announcements of the Companys annual and interim The Directors are pleased to report that there were no material results, the Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding deficiencies and that the majority of the recommendations of objectives with its shareholders.
The non-executive Directors presented in the internal audit reports have now been, or are are available to meet institutional shareholders should there be in the process of being, implemented.
unresolved matters shareholders wish to bring to their attention.
The Board confirms that, from the review of internal controls, it The views of key analysts and shareholders are generally reported has not determined any significant failings or weaknesses that it to the Board directly by individual Directors or via the Companys considers to require remedial action.
The Board also confirms that brokers.
This helps to ensure that all members of the Board it has not been advised of any material weaknesses in the internal develop an understanding of the views and any concerns of control systems that relate to financial reporting.
The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the internal The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the control process implemented across the Group through a review Annual General Meeting, the notice for which can be found of the key findings presented by the external and internal auditors.
The Annual General Meeting provides all Management is responsible for ensuring that the Audit Committees shareholders with the opportunity to attend and vote on the matters recommendations in respect of internal controls and risk put to shareholders, either in person or by proxy.
The results of management are implemented.
the voting on each of the resolutions proposed will be announced shortly after the Annual General Meeting has concluded, via the Compliance and ethics Melrose corporate website at www.
net The Company takes very seriously its responsibilities under the laws and regulations in the countries and jurisdictions in which the
