Melrose Industries PLC Governance 62 Annual Report 2015 Nomination Committee Report Melrose is a meritocracy and individual Liz Hewitt Nomination Committee Chairman performance is the key determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, gender or other characteristic, trait or orientation.
Discharge of responsibilities The Nomination Committee the The Committee discharges its responsibilities through: Committee has overall responsibility regularly reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board and by providing recommendations to the Board of any for making recommendations to the Board adjustments that may be necessary from time to time: on all new appointments to the Board and for giving full consideration to succession planning in order to ensure ensuring that the Board and its Committees an optimum balance of executive and non-executive Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, in terms of skills, experience and diversity: experience, independence, diversity and keeping under review the leadership needs of the business: and knowledge of the Company to enable them keeping up to date and fully informed about strategic issues to discharge their respective duties and and commercial changes affecting the Company and the responsibilities effectively.
markets in which it operates.
of meetings The Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year and during 2015 the Committee met twice.
The attendance of its Liz Hewitt Chairman 2 2 members at these Committee meetings is shown in the table Perry Crosthwaite 2 2 opposite.
Justin Dowley 2 2 John Grant 2 2 The Committees terms of reference, which were last revised in Christopher Miller 2 2 August 2014, are available to view on the Companys website at: www.
net about-us governance nomination-committee Further details regarding the composition, diversity policy and the 2015 activities of the Committee are set out on the following page.
Directors Remuneration Report 64 Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 63 Composition What the Committee did in 2015 In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The principal focus of the Committee during 2015 has been to majority of the members of the Committee were independent consider the items set out below: non-executive Directors throughout 2015.
The Committee The Committee considered the composition and balance of was chaired by Liz Hewitt.
Perry Crosthwaite, John Grant and the Board and the timing of future Board changes and reviewed Justin Dowley also served on the Committee throughout the year.
the succession plans in place in respect of executive Directors Christopher Miller, Executive Chairman of the Board, was also and non-executive Directors in conjunction with the provisions of a member of the Committee throughout the year.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, it was agreed The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
that an additional non-executive Director would be required to On occasion, the Committee invites the Chief Executive, the replace Perry Crosthwaite who, having served more than three, Executive Vice-Chairman and the Group Finance Director to three-year terms as a non-executive Director, would stand down attend discussions where their input is required.
from the Board following the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
The recruitment process is underway and an executive search and Diversity selection specialist has been appointed to assist the Committee.
Melrose is a meritocracy and individual performance is the key An appointment is expected to be made during 2016: determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, gender The existing time commitment of the Companys non-executive or other characteristic, trait or orientation.
The Board recognises Directors was reviewed and confirmed as appropriate: the importance of diversity throughout the workforce, be it geographical, cultural or market-aligned and encompassing gender, The Committee membership was reviewed and a race, sexual orientation and disability, and the Board is committed recommendation made to the Board that, subject to the to equality of opportunity for all employees.
For example, Melrose is appointment of a new non-executive Director, no changes proud to support the Business Disability Forum, a body committed would be required to be made in 2016: to understanding the changes required in the workplace so that Consideration was given to the re-appointment of the Directors disabled people are treated fairly and they can contribute to before making a recommendation to the Board regarding business success, to society and to economic growth.
each Directors re-election at the 2016 AGM, with the exception of Perry Crosthwaite, who will be retiring from office at the The Committee currently takes into account a variety of factors conclusion of the 2016 AGM: before recommending any new appointments to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience and A review of the leadership requirements of Melrose, both knowledge.
The most important priority of the Committee, however, executive and non-executive, was undertaken and this confirmed has been and will continue to be ensuring that the best candidate that the existing management team is appropriate for the Group.
is selected to join the Board and this approach will remain in place This review also demonstrated that appropriate and effective going forward.
leadership is in place within the businesses and that processes The Committee will endeavour to pursue diversity, including are in place to ensure that performance is reviewed regularly gender diversity, throughout the Melrose Group and notes the against operational and financial criteria: recommendations of Lord Davies review, Women on Boards.
The Committee examined the career planning and talent However, given the Companys strategic business model and the management programmes in operation across the Group frequent turnover of businesses, the Committee does not think and concluded that these were appropriate for the needs that setting and committing to specific diversity targets in relation of the business: to the composition of the Board, and the workforce in the wider businesses within the Group, is correct for Melrose.
The Committee reviewed and re-affirmed the principles underlying the Companys diversity policy: and The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year and it was determined that these were in line with best practice.
Liz Hewitt Chairman, Nomination Committee 3 March 2016
