Melrose Industries PLC Governance 50 Annual Report 2015 Directors Report the power to appoint and replace other Directors.
Under the terms The Directors of Melrose Industries PLC of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must present their Annual Report and audited be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
financial statements of the Group for the Pursuant to the Articles and in line with the UK Corporate year ended 31 December 2015.
Governance Code, all of the Directors of the Company are required to stand for re-election on an annual basis.
All current Directors of the Incorporated information Company will be standing for re-election by the shareholders at the The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 54 to 57, forthcoming AGM, with the exception of Perry Crosthwaite, who will the Finance Directors review on pages 20 to 26 and the Corporate be retiring from office with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
Social Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on pages 36 to 44 are each incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and exercise their powers in accordance with the Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report are cross-referenced Articles, directions given by special resolution and any relevant where appropriate.
Taken together, they fulfil the combined statutes and regulations.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs and the Listing Insurance and indemnities Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In accordance with the Articles and the indemnity provisions of the Act, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Structure of the Group Company in respect of any liabilities incurred as a result of their On 6 October 2015, Melrose Industries PLC since renamed office.
This indemnity is provided both within the Articles and Melrose Holdings Limited Old Melrose announced its intention through a separate deed of indemnity between the Company to implement a corporate reorganisation by way of a Courtand each of the Directors.
sanctioned scheme of arrangement, pursuant to which a new listed holding company, New Melrose Industries PLC since renamed The Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect of those Melrose Industries PLC New Melrose was to be introduced liabilities for which the Directors may not be indemnified.
Neither for the Melrose Group.
The shareholders of Old Melrose approved the indemnities nor the insurance provides cover in the event that the proposed scheme of arrangement on 29 October 2015 and, a Director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
following the Courts sanction on 18 November 2015, the scheme Post Balance Sheet events of arrangement became effective on 19 November 2015, when In December 2015, the Company completed the disposal of its New Melrose became the new holding company of Old Melrose Elster business to a subsidiary of Honeywell International Inc. and its subsidiaries the Restructuring.
for cash consideration of 3.3 billion see note 9 to the financial In this Annual Report, unless explicitly stated otherwise, references statements for further details, which are incorporated by reference to the Company and to Melrose are references to Old Melrose into this report.
up to but excluding 19 November 2015, and to New Melrose from In accordance with its strategy to return value to shareholders, the 19 November 2015 onwards.
References to the Board, to the Company returned approximately 2.4 billion from the proceeds Directors and to Board positions are references to the Board, of the disposal to shareholders the Return of Capital.
to the Directors and to Board positions of the relevant company for those periods.
No changes were made to the composition In order to realise the Return of Capital, holders of ordinary shares of the Board, nor to each Directors Board positions, as a result in the Company as at 5.00 p. m. on 26 January 2016 the Record of the Restructuring.
Date received one B share with a nominal value of 240 pence each in the capital of the Company for every ordinary share they AGM held as at the Record Date.
The B shares were not admitted to The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at listing or dealing on any exchange.
Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.30 a. m. on 11 May 2016 the AGM.
The notice On 27 January 2016, the High Court of England and Wales convening the meeting is shown on pages 144 to 149 and approved the cancellation of the B shares.
On 5 February 2016, includes full details of the resolutions to be proposed, together with cheques representing the nominal value of the B shares 240 pence explanatory notes in relation to such resolutions the AGM Notice.
each were dispatched to their holders and CREST accounts were credited with the proceeds, as appropriate.
Directors The Directors of the Company as at the date of this Annual Report, Following the Return of Capital, the ordinary share capital of the together with their biographical details, can be found on pages Company was sub-divided and consolidated the Share Capital 48 and 49.
This was to ensure that, so far as possible, the market price of an ordinary share in the Company remained There were no changes to the Board during the year.
Details approximately the same before and after the Return of Capital and, of Directors service contracts are set out in the Directors so far as possible, historical per share data remained comparable Remuneration Report on page 80. against future per share data.
The statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the The Share Capital Consolidation was effected by the sub-division of consolidated financial statements is set out on page 82, which each existing ordinary share of 1 penny in the capital of the Company is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
the Existing Ordinary Shares into 7 shares of 1 7 pence each in Appointment and removal of Directors and their powers the capital of the Company and, forthwith upon such sub-division, The Companys articles of association Articles give the Directors the consolidation of every 48 shares of 1 7 pence each resulting Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 51 from such sub-division into one new ordinary share of 48 7 pence subject to the share capital consolidation in the ratio of 13 for 14 and were entitled to participate in the return of capital of 18.7 pence per ordinary share.
The share capital in the capital of the Company the New Ordinary Shares.
The consolidation and the return of capital were approved by the shareholders at a general meeting of the Company held on 20 February 2015. record date for the Share Capital Consolidation was 6.00 p. m. 2 F ractional entitlements resulting from the Share Capital Consolidation effective on on 27January 2016 and the New Ordinary Shares were admitted 28 January 2016 were aggregated and sold in the market.
The aggregated proceeds of sale, to listing and trading from 8.00 a. m. on 28 January 2016.
Subject net of commission, were donated to a charity nominated by the Board, the Motor Neurone Disease Association.
In order to ensure that the aggregate of all fractional entitlements to allowance for fractional entitlements, shareholders continued to be sold in the market added up to a whole number of New Ordinary Shares, 26 Existing Ordinary Shares were allotted and issued to Investec Bank plc on 26 January 2016 at to own approximately the same proportion of the ordinary 281.0 pence per share, being the closing middle-market price of an Existing Ordinary Share share capital of the Company before and after the Share Capital on 26 January 2016.
These ordinary shares were issued pursuant to the general authorities granted by the Companys shareholders in accordance with section 551 and section 570 Consolidation.
of the Act at a general meeting of the Company held on 2 October 2015.
The terms of this issue were fixed on 26 January 2015 following a meeting of the Board.
These Existing The Return of Capital and the Share Capital Consolidation were Ordinary Shares were not entitled to participate in the Return of Capital, but were subject to the Share Capital Consolidation.
approved by shareholders of New Melrose at a general meeting of New Melrose held on 2 October 2015 and by shareholders Details of the 2012 Incentive Plan are set out on pages 68 to 70 of Old Melrose at a general meeting of Old Melrose held on of the Directors Remuneration Report and note 22 to the financial 29 October 2015. statements, which are incorporated by reference into this report.
Worked example Shareholders voting rights If you held 1,000 Existing Ordinary Shares of 1 penny each in Subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached the capital of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on 27 January 2016, to any class of shares by or in accordance with the Articles, at a after the Return of Capital and the Share Capital Consolidation, general meeting of the Company each member who holds ordinary you would receive: shares in the Company and who is present in person or by proxy 2,400 in cash, by cheque or settlement through CREST: and at such meeting is entitled to: 145 New Ordinary Shares of 48 7 pence each in the capital on a show of hands, one vote: and of the Company.
on a poll, one vote for every ordinary share held by them.
You would also be entitled to 5 6 of a New Ordinary Share.
This fractional entitlement would be grouped together with all other There are currently no special rights or restrictions as to voting fractional entitlements and sold in the market with the proceeds, attached to any class of shares.
net of commission, donated to charity.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict voting rights attached to the ordinary Further details of significant events since the Balance Sheet date shares in the Company.
are contained in note 29 to the financial statements, which are incorporated by reference into this report.
Where any call or other amount due and payable in respect of an ordinary share remains unpaid, the holder of such shares shall not Capital structure be entitled to vote or attend any general meeting of the Company The Companys issued share capital and changes to it during in respect of those shares.
As at 2 March 2016, all ordinary shares the financial year are detailed in note 25 to the financial statements, issued by the Company are fully paid.
which are incorporated by reference into this report.
Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the The table below shows details of the Companys issued share resolutions to be considered at the 2016 AGM are set out in the capital as at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2015 and AGM Notice on pages 148 and 149. immediately following the Share Capital Consolidation becoming effective on 28 January 2016.
The rights and restrictions attached to the New Ordinary Shares following the Share Capital Consolidation remain exactly the same 28 January 2016 as those attached to the Existing Ordinary Shares immediately prior post the to the Share Capital Consolidation.
31 December 31 December Share Capital Share class 2014 2015 Consolidation Restrictions on transfer of ordinary shares Former ordinary 1,071,761,339 Nil Nil The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of shares of 13 110 ordinary shares in the Company, aside from the usual restrictions pence each applicable where shares are not fully paid up, if entitled to do so 1 Existing Ordinary Nil 995,206,966 Nil under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, where the Shares of transfer instrument does not comply with the requirements of 1 penny each the Articles or, in exceptional circumstances, where approved 2 New Ordinary Nil Nil 145,134,353 by the UK Listing Authority provided such refusal would not disturb Shares of 48 7 the market in such shares.
Restrictions may also be imposed by pence each laws and regulations such as insider trading and market abuse 1 F ractional entitlements resulting from the share capital consolidation effective on provisions.
Directors and certain senior employees of the Group 23 February 2015 were aggregated and sold in the market.
The aggregated proceeds of sale, net of commission, were donated to a charity nominated by the Board, the Rainbow may also be subject to internal approvals before dealing in ordinary Trust.
In order to ensure that the aggregate of all fractional entitlements to be sold in the shares of the Company and minimum share holding requirements.
market added up to a whole number of Existing Ordinary Shares, nine ordinary shares of 13 110 pence each were allotted and issued to Investec Bank plc on 3 February 2015 at 266.8 pence per share, being the closing middle-market price of an ordinary share in the The Company is not aware of any agreements between Company on 2 February 2015.
These ordinary shares were issued pursuant to the general shareholders that restrict the transfer of ordinary shares in the authorities granted by the Companys shareholders in accordance with section 551 and section 570 of the Act at the Companys AGM held on 13 May 2014.
The terms of this issue Company.
were fixed on 2 February 2015 following a meeting of the Board.
These ordinary shares were Melrose Industries PLC Governance 52 Annual Report 2015 Directors Report continued Articles of association 200 million from the proceeds of the disposal to shareholders, The Articles of New Melrose were adopted upon incorporation by way of a redeemable share scheme with both income and of New Melrose on 29 September 2015, before being amended capital options.
This return of capital was approved by shareholders pursuant to a special resolution approved at a general meeting at a general meeting of the Company held on 20 February 2015. of New Melrose held on 30 September 2015, in preparation for This return to shareholders is not included in the full year dividend the Restructuring.
The Articles of New Melrose were based upon figure stated above.
the Articles of Old Melrose at that date, with the amendments Following the disposal of the Elster business in December 2015, described in the Prospectus dated 6 October 2015, which was the Company announced its intention to return approximately published in relation to the Restructuring.
2.4 billion from the proceeds of the disposal to shareholders, The Articles were further amended on 26 October 2015 pursuant to by way of the Return of Capital detailed earlier in this Directors a special resolution approved at a general meeting of New Melrose, Report.
The Return of Capital and the Share Capital Consolidation in order to better facilitate the Return of Capital.
were approved by shareholders of New Melrose at a general meeting of New Melrose held on 2 October 2015 and by The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at shareholders of Old Melrose at a general meeting of Old Melrose a general meeting of the shareholders of the Company.
The Return of Capital is not included are no amendments proposed to be made to the Articles at the in the full year dividend figure stated above.
For discussions on the Boards intentions with regards to the Substantial shareholdings dividend policy, please see the Chairmans statement on page 06, As at 31 December 2015, the following voting interests in the which is incorporated into this report by reference.
ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under DTR 5, had been notified to the Directors: The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which gives shareholders the opportunity to use their dividend payments % of ordinary to purchase further ordinary shares in the Company.
Further share capital as at 1 details about the DRIP and its terms and conditions can be Shareholder Shareholding 31 December 2015 found within the Investors section of the Companys website at BlackRock Inc. 73,710,497 7.4% www.
net Artemis Investment Management 71,872,982 7.2% Ability to purchase own shares Columbia Threadneedle Pursuant to sections 693 and 701 of the Act and a special Investments 58,103,733 5.8% resolution passed at a general meeting of New Melrose on Legal & General Investment 2October 2015, the Company is authorised to make market Management 39,791,884 4.0% purchases of up to 99,520,696 of its ordinary shares, representing Aviva plc 38,273,076 3.8% approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company 1 T hese shareholdings do not take into account the effects of the Share Capital Consolidation immediately following the Restructuring.
The Company has not which became effective on 28 January 2016. made any purchases of its own shares pursuant to this authority.
This authority will expire at the end of this years AGM.
The Between 1 January 2016 and 2 March 2016, the following voting Company is seeking approval from shareholders at this years interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable AGM for the Company to make market purchases of up to under DTR 5, were notified to the Directors: 14,513,435 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately % of ordinary 10% of the issued share capital of the Company following the share capital as at 1 1 Share Capital Consolidation.
The full text of the resolution, together Shareholder Shareholding date of disclosure 2 with minimum and maximum price requirements, is set out in the Old Mutual plc 9,842,359 6.8% AGM Notice on page 145.
2 BlackRock Inc. 8,518,078 5.9% Financial instruments 1 S ince the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the Company may have changed.
2 T o note, these disclosures were made after the Share Capital Consolidation, effective upon The disclosures required in relation to the use of financial 28January 2016. instruments by the Company, including the financial risk management objectives and policies including in relation to Shareholder dividend hedging of the Company and the exposure of the Company to The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a final price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, cash flow risk, exchange rate dividend of 2.6 pence per share 2014: 5.3 pence to be paid risk, contract and warranty risk and commodity cost risk, can on 16May 2016 to ordinary shareholders on the register of be found in the Finance Directors review on pages 20 to 26, members of the Company at the close of trading on 8 April 2016. the risks and uncertainties section of the Strategic Report on This dividend recommendation will be put to shareholders at the pages 30 to 35 and in note 24 to the financial statements, forthcoming AGM of the Company, to be held on 11 May 2016. which are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Subject to shareholder approval being obtained at the AGM for the final dividend, this will mean a full year 2015 dividend of 5.4 pence Research and development activities per share 2014: 8.1 pence.
The industries in which the Melrose Group invests are highly competitive and the businesses within the Group are encouraged In November 2014, the Company completed the disposal to research and develop new and innovative product lines and of its Bridon business for an enterprise value of 365 million.
processes in order to meet customer demands in a continuously In accordance with its strategy to return value to shareholders, evolving environment.
the Company announced its intention to return approximately Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 53 The amended facility agreement contains substantially the same An example of the types of new products being launched within terms as previously, except for a reduction in various thresholds Brush include the 132 kV range of transformers, as noted in the to reflect the smaller size of the Group following the disposal and Business review on page 10, which is incorporated by reference Return of Capital.
Business review and risks In the event of a change of control of the Company following a A review of the Groups performance, the key risks and uncertainties takeover bid, the Company and lenders under the amended facility facing the Group and details on the likely development of the agreement are obliged to enter into negotiations to determine Group can be found in the Chairmans statement on page 06 whether, and if so how, to continue with the facility.
There is no and the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 44 of this Annual Report obligation for the lenders to continue to make the facility available including the longer-term viability statement on page 27 and for more than 30 days beyond any change of control.
Failure to the risks and uncertainties section on pages 30 to 35 which reach agreement with parties on revised terms could require an are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, options granted under Employees the 2012 Incentive Plan would be exercised and any 2012 incentive Details in relation to employment policies, employee involvement, shares resulting from such exercise, or that had previously been consultation and development, together with details of some of the issued, would convert into ordinary shares in the Company or human resource improvement initiatives implemented during 2015 an entitlement to a dividend paid in cash, the rate of conversion are shown on pages 37 to 40 of the Corporate Social Responsibility being based upon the offer price of the Companys ordinary section of the Strategic Report and on page 63 of the Nomination shares as calculated on the date of the change of control of the Committee Report, which are incorporated by reference into this Company.
If the offer price, or any element of the offer price, is Directors Report.
not in cash, the Remuneration Committee will determine the value Environmental of the non-cash element, having been advised by a reputable Details of the Groups environmental initiatives, greenhouse investment bank that such valuation is fair and reasonable.
gas emissions and the methodology used to calculate such emissions are set out on pages 42 and 43 of the Corporate Social Following the maturity of an earlier scheme, a long-term incentive Responsibility section of the Strategic Report, which is incorporated plan has been put in place for certain employees of Brush, which by reference into this Directors Report.
would be triggered upon a takeover of the Company.
The plan provides for the payment of bonuses to certain key managers Political donations of Brush based upon the increase in value of the business.
The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and Auditor there were no political donations made during the year ended So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 31December 2015 2014: nil.
information being information that is needed by the Companys Branches auditor to prepare its report of which the Companys auditor is The Melrose Group and its businesses operate across various unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to jurisdictions.
The Group has no registered branches.
have taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
Other than the following, no further information is required to be disclosed by the Company in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance details of the 2012 Incentive Plan, which are set out on pages with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
68 to 70 of the Directors Remuneration Report and note 22 On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the to the financial statements incorporated by reference into effectiveness, performance, independence and objectivity this report : and of the existing external auditor, Deloitte LLP, for the year ended 31December 2015 and concluded that the external auditor was in details of allotments of ordinary shares to Investec Bank plc, all respects effective.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to as part of the share capital consolidations, which are set out continue in office as auditor of the Group.
Accordingly, resolutions on page 51 of this Directors Report.
will be proposed at this years AGM for the reappointment of Significant agreements and change of control Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Group and to authorise the Audit With the exception of the Groups banking facilities, the 2012 Committee to determine its remuneration.
Incentive Plan including the options granted under this plan and the divisional management long-term incentive plans, there are Approval no other agreements that would have a significant effect upon Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: a change of control of Melrose Industries PLC as at 2 March 2016.
In June 2012, as part of the process to acquire Elster, the Group entered into a 1.5 billion multi-currency term and revolving bank facilities agreement, which was restated and amended from time to time.
By an amendment and restatement agreement dated 30September 2015, it was agreed that each of the facilities would Adam Westley be repaid and subsequently cancelled using part of the proceeds Company Secretary of the disposal of the Elster business, save for a 200 million 3 March 2016 multi-currency revolving credit facility which remains in place, but which is not currently utilised.
