Melrose Industries PLC Governance 48 Annual Report 2015 Board of Directors Christopher Miller David Roper Simon Peckham Geoffrey Martin Executive Chairman Executive Vice-Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as Executive Appointed as Executive Appointed as Chief Executive Appointed as Group Finance Chairman on 29 May 2003.
Vice-Chairman on 9 May 2012, on 9 May 2012, having previously Director on 7 July 2005. having previously served as served as Chief Operating Officer Skills and experience Skills and experience Chief Executive from May 2003. from May 2003.
Christophers longstanding Geoffrey provides considerable involvement in manufacturing Skills and experience Skills and experience public company experience and industries and private investment From a wide range of roles Simon provides widespread expertise in corporate finance, brings a wealth of experience in corporate finance, private expertise in corporate finance, raising equity finance and to the Board.
investment and management in mergers and acquisitions, financial strategy.
manufacturing industries, David strategy and operations.
A chartered accountant, A chartered accountant, brings significant investment, Christopher qualified with Simon qualified as a solicitor in Geoffrey qualified with Coopers financial and operational Coopers & Lybrand, following 1986, before moving to Wassall & Lybrand, where he worked expertise.
which he was an Associate PLC in 1990, where he became within the corporate finance Director of Hanson plc.
In A chartered accountant, David an executive Director in 1999. and audit departments.
In 1996, September 1988, Christopher qualified with Peat Marwick Between October 2000 and Geoffrey joined Royal Doulton joined the board of Wassall PLC Mitchell, following which he May 2003, Simon worked PLC, serving as Group Finance as its Chief Executive.
Between worked in the corporate finance for the equity finance division Director from October 2000 October 2000 and May 2003, divisions of S. G. Warburg, BZW of The Royal Bank of Scotland until June 2005.
During this Christopher was involved in and Dillon Read.
In September where he was involved in several time, Geoffrey was involved in private investment activities.
1988, David was appointed high profile transactions.
a number of projects, including to the board of Wassall PLC, raising public equity, debt Board meetings attended Board meetings attended before becoming its deputy refinancing and the restructuring 4 4 4 4 Chief Executive in 1993.
Between and outsourcing of the 2000 and 2003, David was manufacturing and supply chain.
Business reviews attended Business reviews attended involved in private investment 3 3 3 3 Board meetings attended activities and served as a 4 4 Other significant Other significant non-executive Director on the appointments appointments boards of two companies in Business reviews attended France.
3 3 Committee membership Committee membership Board meetings attended Other significant Nomination 4 4 appointments Independent Independent Business reviews attended Not applicable Not applicable 3 3 Committee membership Other significant appointments Independent Trustee of E-ACT, an Not applicable independent sponsor of state-funded educational academies.
Committee membership Independent Not applicable Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 49 1 3 Perry Crosthwaite John Grant Justin Dowley Liz Hewitt Senior non-executive Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Director Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as a non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Director on 26 July 2005.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience With a distinguished career in Following a variety of senior roles Justin has extensive experience Liz has extensive business, investment banking and over within the automotive industry, with over 35 years spent within financial and investment 30 years experience as a director John brings financial expertise the banking, investment and experience gained from in the City of London, Perry and global executive experience asset management sector.
a number of senior roles provides a wealth of experience to the Board.
A chartered accountant, Justin in financial, investment and John was Chief Executive of qualified with Price Waterhouse A chartered accountant, Liz executive management.
Ascot Plc between 1997 and and was latterly Vice Chairman qualified with Arthur Andersen Perry was a founding director 2000.
Prior to that, he was of EMEA Investment Banking, & Co. following which she of Henderson Crosthwaite Group Finance Director of Lucas a division of Nomura International held a variety of positions Institutional Brokers Limited, Industries Plc subsequently plc.
He was also a founder within Gartmore Investment serving on the board until its LucasVarity Plc between 1992 partner of Tricorn Partners, Management, CVC and 3i Group acquisition by Investec Bank and 1996.
He also previously Head of Investment Banking plc.
He became a Director held several senior strategy at Merrill Lynch Europe and Liz was the Group Director of Investec Bank UK Limited and finance positions with Ford a director of Morgan Grenfell.
of Corporate Affairs for Smith and Chairman of the Investment Motor Company both in Europe & Nephew plc, following a Board meetings attended Banking division until his and the US.
secondment to the Department 4 4 retirement in 2004. for Business, Innovation and Board meetings attended Skills and the HM Treasury, Business reviews attended Board meetings attended 4 4 where Liz worked to establish 3 3 4 4 The Enterprise Capital Fund.
Business reviews attended Other significant Business reviews attended 3 3 Board meetings attended appointments 3 3 4 4 Other significant Chairman of Intermediate Other significant appointments Capital Group plc a specialist Business reviews attended appointments Non-executive Director of investment and asset 3 3 Non-executive Director of MHP S. A. Augean PLC and management company.
Investec Limited and Investec Touch Bionics Limited.
Other significant Non-executive Director of plc and director of a number appointments Chairman of The British Racing Novae Group plc, Scottish of Investec subsidiaries.
Non-executive Director of Novo Drivers Club Limited.
Mortgage Investment Trust Nordisk A S and Savills plc.
Director of Nordoff Robbins PLC and the National Crime Committee membership Music Therapy.
Committee membership Audit Chairman Audit Committee membership Nomination Director of a number of private Nomination Chairman Audit Remuneration companies.
Remuneration Nomination Independent Committee membership Remuneration Independent 2 Yes Audit 2 Yes Independent Nomination 2 Yes Remuneration Chairman Independent 2 Yes 1 Perry Crosthwaite will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
2 D etails on the consideration given by the Board to the independence of its non-executive Directors, in light of the UK Corporate Governance Code, is provided on page 55 of the Corporate Governance Report.
3 Subject to shareholder approval of John Grants re-election, John will assume the position of senior non-executive Director at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
