Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT Committee Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder The Committee recognises that independent and effective auditors are an essential component of the overall control framework.
I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Audit Committee the Committee and to be able to confirm, on behalf of the A new Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Director has Board, that we believe the Annual Report and Accounts, taken been appointed following an internal promotion of the previous as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
The internal audit plan is risk based and we are satisfied with the content and quality of both reporting and management The Committee remains engaged in maintaining the integrity responses.
An external assessment conducted during the year of the Companys financial reporting, internal control framework found the internal audit department to be effective.
During the year the Committee delivered a detailed programme of work to ensure that it In 2015 Hugh Green replaced Mark Summerfield as the KPMG continues to meet the increasing depth of review and reporting Senior Statutory Auditor, Mark having reached the end of his that is now required of Audit Committees.
The Committee is pleased with the smooth assessment of the Committee was undertaken during the transition, a point supported by a review of KPMGs effectiveness year which found it to be effective.
This review covered KPMGs mindset and culture, skills and knowledge, judgement and quality control measures.
Following updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The feedback received was positive with only minor points to be Committee spent time ensuring that the additional requirements addressed.
We have also kept abreast of the latest regulations introduced were met by the Company.
Particular focus was given on auditor rotation: we expect that a retender will be required no later than 2023 and will bear in mind the next KPMG to enhancements to the Companys risk management processes, partner rotation after the 2019 audit is concluded.
and systems of internal control, including any learnings from its internal investigation into the accident at Alton Towers.
The The CFO plays a critical role in maintaining financial reporting Committee is satisfied that the Company has appropriate quality and we are therefore pleased that, with the recently systems and procedures in place to identify, evaluate and announced appointment of Anne-Francoise Nesmes, we have manage material risks to the business.
found someone well qualified to be Andrew Carrs successor.
The Committee also spent time considering the processes Priorities for 2016 include continuing to deliver incremental supporting the assessment of the Groups longer term solvency improvements to the already effective risk management and and liquidity which underlie the new Viability Statement.
control frameworks and monitoring the implementation of the Following this we agreed the stress testing parameters of the Groups new admissions systems, through which the Group will Groups principal risks and that the appropriate period over ultimately transact a significant proportion of its revenues.
which the assessment should be made for the Viability Statement was that of the Groups business plan, which covers the current From the date of the 2015 AGM Fru Hazlitt joined the Audit year and the next four years.
Committee following Miguel Ko stepping down from the Board.
As we move into 2016 I am delighted that Trudy Rautio and The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages Rachel Chiang have been appointed to the Audit Committee, 40 to 45.
The Committee has reviewed these and is comfortable adding to the valuable contribution provided by Charles Gurassa the Company has addressed them appropriately within its and resulting in a Committee with deep financial, sector and ongoing operating model and priorities.
We have also appreciated the enthusiastic support of management throughout the year.
With respect to financial reporting, as in previous years, the two areas determined to be of most significance in preparing the Groups financial statements are the valuation of assets KenHydon including impairment, and revenue recognition.
 24 February 2016 70 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT Committee Report  Effectiveness review During the year an external effectiveness review of the Audit The Audit Committee has received delegated authority from Committee was undertaken.
This was based on a questionnaire the Board as set out in its written terms of reference available sent to Committee members, all other attendees and the Board on the Companys website.
Its primary responsibilities, subject on a broad range of matters including the Committees scope: only to minor changes in the year, are: organisation and meetings: quality of debate and challenge: and To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the leadership of the Committee.
The results showed the Company and report to the Board on significant financial Committee to be effective.
To review and report on the effectiveness of the Companys  internal controls and the overall risk management systems.
The Board retains overall responsibility for the Companys To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to internal controls and, as outlined in the Risks and uncertainties raise concerns through its whistleblowing and fraud policies.
section on pages 40 to 45, separates the Companys oversight To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys of risk management into three risk components: Health, safety internal audit function, and its material findings, in the context and security: Commercial and strategic: and Financial process.
of the Companys overall risk management and internal The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for control environment.
overseeing the overall risk management process and specifically To oversee the performance and independence of the monitoring financial risk.
The Audit Committee therefore has a external auditors.
dual role in relation to internal controls and risk management.
To report formally to the Board and make recommendations where it is deemed necessary on matters within its terms of In assessing internal controls, the Committee reviewed the overall reference, including a report to the Board on how it has risk management process in place during the year.
At the end of discharged its responsibilities.
the year it examined the Companys risk organisation, how this To consider the processes supporting the assessment of the has been practically implemented including the depth and Groups longer term solvency and liquidity which underlie effectiveness of reviews, and the methodology by which risk the Viability Statement.
matters raised are brought to the attention of the Board, all intensified by the Alton Towers accident.
The above obligations form the basis of an annual programme of work agreed before the start of the year and reviewed at The Committee directly monitors the management of the each meeting to consider the inclusion of any further items that financial process risk of the Company.
Management remain may need to be added in response to matters arising.
In addition, responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal the Committee is kept abreast of any updates in governance, controls over financial reporting.
Such controls are designed to legislation or guidance.
All elements of the programme were manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve its covered during the course of the year.
business objectives through the following structure: The first level of internal control comprises the delegated Membership and meetings authority limits and purchasing and sale price approval Details of the membership, their qualifications and the frequency levels in place across the Company.
and attendance at meetings are outlined in the Corporate The second level of internal control is the frequent and Governance section on pages 62 to 65.
In addition to the regular review processes the Company undertakes on its permanent members, the CFO and other key members of trading performance along with its detailed capital management routinely attend.
The Chairman and the CEO are also investment and strategic planning processes.
invited to attend meetings as observers and others are invited to The third level of assurance is gained from audit and selfattend from time to time depending on the matters under discussion.
assessment, including quarterly self-certification by the heads Private meetings are routinely held with internal audit and KPMG.
The Committee also meets privately after each Committee meeting.
of finance of each of the business units: periodic internal audit reviews, with the support of specialist experts as appropriate: and the findings of the external auditors on the control environment and financial statements.
The outcomes of these assurance activities are reviewed by management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
71 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT Committee Report Going concern and viability review Audit plans and outcomes The Committee considered the Groups going concern review, The internal audit annual plan is developed in conjunction especially the appropriateness of the key judgements, assumptions with management, the focus being driven by the results of an and estimates underlying the budgets that underpin the review assessment of various risk factors, before being reviewed and and a review of compliance with key financial covenants.
The approved by the Committee.
Committee also considered the key risks identified by the Group and the mitigating internal controls, together with how the risks Internal audit results and management responses are presented have been addressed in the going concern assessment.
at each Committee meeting, with significant findings discussed in more detail and challenged where appropriate.
The Committee This process enabled the Committee, on behalf of the Board, to continues to review management actions in response to assess whether any material residual risks remained that could significant findings and look at the root cause of consistent pose a significant threat to the viability of the business as a whole.
themes emerging across the Company, requesting deep dive The Committee also assessed over what period such a viability assessments of the financial control environment as necessary.
review would be appropriate and agreed with the four year Significant findings relate to areas where controls are found to be outlook period used.
The impact of those risks that could affect absent or inadequate in areas which are considered susceptible the future viability of the Group over the next four years was to fraud or material misstatement at a local level or where then reviewed as was the resilience of the Group to the there is any evidence of deliberate falsification of documents.
occurrence of these risks, in severe yet plausible scenarios.
KPMG also present their view of Merlins control environment As a result of this analysis, the disclosures detailed in the at the December meeting, following their audit of such Viability Statement, on page 42, were approved by the Board.
processes in the fourth quarter.
Whistleblowing systems and fraud bribery mitigation These measures, combined with an assessment of discussions The Committee receives regular updates on whistleblowing, with relevant stakeholders of the internal control systems, including the quantity, source and nature of incidents reported satisfied the Committee that in 2015 a thorough process exists and how matters are resolved.
Efforts have continued in 2015 within Merlin to assess the internal control environment, and that to increase the awareness of the Companys whistleblowing financial process controls are in place to mitigate the risk of a procedures.
Internal audit results have confirmed that the substantial loss or fraud occurring.
external hotline has been effectively rolled out, adding a further route by which issues can be independently raised, supplementing  the existing local profit protection teams.
The Company has a Detailed below are some of the main areas that the good culture of encouraging its staff to report incidents of poor Committee focused on in 2015.
We are pleased to report practice.
84% of the employees who completed the annual staff that the Committee had no cause for disagreement with survey in 2015 agreed they were aware of the whistleblowing management during the year on these matters.
The Company revised and reissued its fraud and bribery policy in 2015.
This includes the provision of mandatory training Accounting, tax and financial reporting for those staff who are considered most likely to be exposed In addition to considering the material financial reporting matters to such risk.
noted below and in the table opposite, the Committee assessed the financial statements presented by the Company during the year Misstatements as well as items that they believe are material to the integrity of Management reported to the Committee that they were not the financial processes and output, including the consideration of: aware of any material misstatements made intentionally to The half year and full year financial statements.
The external auditors reported Disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts in relation to the Committee any misstatements that they had found in the to internal control, risk management process and the work course of their work and that no material adjustments were of the Committee.
The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that The tax position of the Group, in particular the effective the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities with diligence tax rate and the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Key assumptions in relation to the Companys defined benefit pension schemes.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management Treasury accounting matters arising from the Companys refinancing in the year.
and consulting where necessary with the auditors, the Committee Technical updates, in particular in relation to the requirements was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately addressed of and changes to the Code.
the significant judgements and key estimates both with respect to The Audit Committees report in the context of the the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee was Codes requirement for fair, balanced and also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining understandable reporting.
the value of assets and liabilities had been appropriately scrutinised and challenged and were sufficiently robust.
72 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT Committee Report Consideration of significant accounting matters Following discussion with both management and the external auditors, the Committee determined the areas of most significance, which could give rise to misstatement of the Groups financial statements.
These items were considered by the Committee at the time they agreed the external auditors plan, when reviewing the external auditors final audit findings, and in discussion with relevant members of management.
Matterconsidered Summary The valuation of assets and impairment Management provided detailed papers to the Audit Committee, explaining the This is an area of significant judgement given that methodology and judgements applied to test the value of assets and to determine if an the Group is involved in opening attractions in new impairment adjustment was required.
These papers examined the basis by which discount and, to some degree, unproven locations.
Existing rates were determined, as well as the judgements made to calculate an assets terminal businesses operate in geographically or politically value.
A combination of discount rate, terminal value and forecast cash flows are used diverse areas and in the past the Group has made to calculate the value in use.
material acquisitions resulting in significant balances The papers considered the valuation of goodwill at an Operating Group level, individual of goodwill and intangible assets.
brands and specific property, plant and equipment.
For each of these categories, in The Group has accumulated experience of accordance with accounting standards, as well as value in use, fair values were provided opening many attractions around the world, but using an appropriate EBITDA multiple.
Comparing the higher of these two valuations to inevitably the performance of additional attractions, their carrying values determined if any impairment was required.
This paper specifically particularly in new markets, can be difficult to analysed the impact of the accident at Alton Towers on the expected future earnings predict accurately.
The exposure of existing of the attraction and the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group, as well as detailing attractions to macro-economic volatility or material the results of sensitivity analysis performed.
adverse events, such as the accident at Alton The papers also set out the disclosures proposed for the Annual Report and Towers, may indicate a need for an impairment Accounts, taking account of the procedures noted above and the findings reported to assessment.
These factors make forecasting the the Committee.
returns from the existing estate and acquired businesses similarly uncertain.
Having reviewed the basis of managements calculations and the findings of the external audit on the valuation of assets and impairment, the Committee is satisfied with the Valuations are performed based on discounted appropriateness of the presentation in the financial statements and the adequacy of future cash flow forecasts and other market data.
the disclosures, and that no impairment is required.
They are complex to perform, include judgemental information such as market discount rates, and are based almost entirely upon forward looking estimates of future cash flows.
Revenue recognition The roll out of the new admissions system commenced during the year under the Revenue is generated by high volumes of low value guidance of a senior steering group, chaired by the Groups Chief Information Officer.
transactions in numerous jurisdictions across the The steering group includes a number of the Groups senior finance team, including the world.
During the year the Company announced Group CFO.
The project roll out team includes finance resource that is responsible for its plan to roll out the accesso admissions system designing and implementing appropriate financial processes and controls.
This system will ultimately The project was at an early stage in 2015, initially focused on a number of the Groups generate a significant proportion of the Groups smaller attractions, representing a very small percentage of the Groups revenues.
new system is increasingly used across the estate during 2016, it will be a key focus for Whilst there is limited judgement required in the Committee.
Merlins revenue accounting policies compared to The Committee has concluded that IFRS 15 is not expected to materially alter the some other sectors, the accuracy of financial Groups financial results.
reporting relies on robust internal controls over cash reconciliations and the accurate cut-off of Other than as noted above, there have been no material changes in revenue streams or revenue at the balance sheet date in the instance processes during 2015.
As in previous years, the Audit Committee has considered the of advanced sales or payment in arrears by internal controls in place, including those over revenue streams, and concludes that trade customers.
IFRS 15, the new accounting standard on revenue from contracts with customers, which will become effective from the 2018 accounting period, could potentially have an impact on the Groups financial results.
73 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT Committee Report The internal audit reports are reviewed by management with  significant findings also reviewed by the Companys Executive As noted above the internal and external audit functions represent Committee.
Any such findings are also discussed at the Audit an important part of the third line of defence in terms of Committee, along with recommendations and actions planned maintaining an effective internal control environment within the by management.
The Committee oversees both internal and external audit to ensure they are independent and effective, and further An external review of the effectiveness of internal audit was information is provided in the following sections as to how the undertaken during the year and the results of the review Committee satisfies itself of this independence and effectiveness.
were presented to the Committee in December.
Members and attendees of the Audit Committee meetings, along with Internal audit the senior finance community of the Company, were questioned The Companys internal audit function is led by an appropriately on a range of subjects including the governance and organisation qualified Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Director.
of the internal audit function, their audit approach and the Through 2015 he reported jointly to the Chairman of the Audit effectiveness of their reports and conclusions.
The survey results Committee and the CFO and the Committee consider him to showed that the internal audit function is considered professional, have the appropriate experience to lead the function.
During diligent and its internal audits appropriately detailed.
the year it was indicated that he would move to another role within the Company in early 2016 and the Audit Committee Having considered comments from management, external chair participated in the recruitment of his replacement.
The auditors, the survey results and the quality of the internal audit Committee is satisfied that the appropriate focus, skills and reporting and findings, the Committee concluded that the experience were in place throughout 2015, a view supported internal audit function is effective.
by the results of the external effectiveness review performed towards the end of the year.
The Committee is also confident External audit that the new Group Internal Audit and Risk Management KPMG LLP were the Companys external auditors throughout Director has the relevant skills and experience to fulfil the the year.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the work obligations of the role.
The transition took place in January 2016. of the external auditors, including considering the scope of planned work and the assessment of risk and materiality on The internal audit function comprises six in-house auditors, which it is based and, on behalf of the Board, approving the including the Group Internal Audit and Risk Management audit fee and ensuring their independence.
Director, four of whom hold professional accounting qualifications and two who are part qualified and actively working towards full Appointment and governance of the external auditors qualification.
When necessary external support is used.
For The Committee is responsible for making a recommendation example  PwC provided specialist to the Board on the appointment, reappointment or removal of support to the audit of the Companys IT strategic roadmap the external auditors, together with their remuneration and and risks as the internal team did not have the relevant skills.
The Committee received and approved a presentation of the Having performed the role of Senior Statutory Auditor for five audits planned to be performed in 2015 at the start of the year, years, Mark Summerfield stepped down from this role at the including an assessment of the risk approach taken in formulating conclusion of the 2014 reporting cycle.
Hugh Green took over the priorities.
Factors such as size and location of business, history the position for the 2015 audit and the Committee has been of audit findings, competence and stability of local management, pleased with the smooth transition.
An effectiveness survey of material changes to a business and relevance to the Groups KPMG in late 2015 also concluded that a range of stakeholders strategy were factored into this prioritisation.
acknowledged that the transition had been smooth.
During the year, audits have been undertaken in operations In recommending the reappointment of external auditors representing coverage of approximately 60% of the Groups at the AGM, the Committee has considered the latest EU revenue.
In 2015, in addition to the revenue generating locations, Audit Reforms guidance.
Following consultation between the internal audits were performed over the effectiveness of central Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS and the marketing procedures, admissions and web booking systems, Financial Reporting Council FRC, it is now expected that Merlin central profit protection systems and bribery and fraud mitigation procedures.
The coverage is in line with the plan approved by will be required to retender its audit no later than for the 2023 the Committee.
financial year and will bear in mind the next KPMG partner rotation after the 2019 audit has concluded.
The Committee has considered whether a retender in 2016 would be appropriate as part of its annual recommendation to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors.
74 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT Committee Report Assessment of the performance of the external auditors Remuneration and independence of external auditors Following consideration of the FRCs Practice Aid on Audit The auditors are eligible for selection to provide non-audit Quality, the Committee has evaluated the performance, services only to the extent that their skills and experience make independence and objectivity of KPMG.
One part of this them a competitive and most appropriate supplier of these evaluation was an effectiveness assessment, facilitated by an services.
Non-audit services are subject to market tenders or external party.
This assessment was conducted by way of a series tests and are awarded to the most appropriate provider.
of questionnaires issued to, and interviews with, Audit Committee Non-audit services that are awarded to the auditors are normally members and other attendees, and senior finance personnel both limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual at Merlins attractions and at its head office.
The survey covered audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed KPMGs mindset and culture, skills and knowledge, judgement understanding of the Group is necessary.
The principle followed and quality control aspects of the audit.
with regard to non-audit services is that the auditors may not provide a service which: The survey indicated widespread support of the quality of the Places them in a position to audit their own work.
KPMG audit and the Committee were satisfied with KPMGs Impacts their independence by creating a shared interest.
responses to points raised in the survey.
Results in the auditors developing close personal relationships with Merlin employees.
In addition, the effectiveness of KPMGs 2015 audit was assessed Results in the auditors functioning as a manager over the year by reference to the following factors: or employee of Merlin.
The performance of Hugh Green in his first year as Senior Puts the auditors in the role of advocate for Merlin.
Statutory Auditor, including his understanding of our business and the impact on the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee granted the CFO authority to approve the The robustness and perceptiveness of KPMGs handling of following without prior approval: key accounting and audit judgements.
Work which a third party requires to be carried out by The quality of communication with the Committee, including the Companys auditors.
the regular reports on accounting and governance matters.
Tax compliance work where the external auditor is the The skills and experience of the wider audit team and their most appropriate party to perform those services.
execution of the audit, including the way they handled the key Any other work up to a value of 100,000 where the accounting and audit judgements and communication of the external auditor is best placed to undertake the work.
same with management and the Committee.
Their reputation and standing, including their independence Management provides the Committee with reports on audit, and objectivity and their internal quality procedures.
audit-related and non-audit expenditure, together with proposals The quality of the formal report to shareholders.
of any material non-audit related assignments.
The Committee regularly reviews and, where necessary, challenges management After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is not concluded that the external auditors were effective.
The Committee has determined that non-audit fees should be no higher than 70% of audit and audit-related fees: this level will continue to be monitored.
The Committee continues to monitor the implementation of the EU directive by the UK Government which will, in future, place certain restrictions around non-audit services performed by the auditors.
Fees for non-audit services during the year amounted to 0.8 million 2014: 0.8 million.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit services can be found in note 2.1 to the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit fees, and the nature of services provided, are not such that would compromise the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
