Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE Governance Report  The Non-executive Directors representing KIRKBI Sren Thorup As at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts the Company Srensen, Blackstone Dr. Gerry Murphy and CVC Rob Lucas complies and the Company intends to continue to comply with are not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Board will also take account of institutional Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas stepped down as Directors at shareholder governance rules and guidance on disclosure the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
and shareholder authorisation of corporate events.
Accordingly, the Board considers that from the conclusion The Code recommends that a UK listed companys Chairman of the 2015 AGM, the Company was in full compliance with be independent on appointment.
The Chairman was appointed the recommendation of the Code concerning the balance of in December 2009.
The Board considers that the Chairman was independent Non-executive Directors on the Board.
independent on appointment and remains so.
The Chairman is an adviser to CVC, who were a shareholder in the Company from  July 2010 until March 2015.
The Board does not consider that this The Company has entered into Relationship Agreements has had any effect on the independence of the Chairman for the with each of KIRKBI, Blackstone and CVC.
The Relationship purposes of the Code.
The Chairmans role is to ensure good Agreements with Blackstone and CVC which were described corporate governance.
in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27 December 2014 terminated when they ceased to hold any The Code recommends that at least half the members of the shares in the Company.
The Relationship Agreement with KIRKBI Board of Directors excluding the Chairman of a UK listed remains in force.
Under the KIRKBI Relationship Agreement: company should be independent in character and judgement and KIRKBI is entitled to appoint one Director to the Board.
In free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, addition, while KIRKBI holds at least 10% of the Companys or could appear to affect, their judgement.
issued share capital, it may also appoint an observer to the Board with the right to attend and speak but not vote.
The Board has concluded that, for the purposes of the Code, KIRKBI may appoint an observer with the right to attend and Charles Gurassa, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt, Trudy Rautio and Rachel speak but not vote to each of the Audit Committee, Chiang should be regarded as independent Non-executive Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee for so Directors and that their appointments were in the best long as KIRKBI together with its respective affiliates holds at interests of shareholders.
least 10% of the Companys ordinary shares.
Although Mr Gurassa previously served on the board of Tragus Majorshareholdings Group Limited formerly a portfolio company of Blackstone, As at 23 February 2016, the latest practicable date prior to the which was a shareholder in the Company until March 2015 and date of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Company had been Mr Ko served during his tenure as a Director of the Company notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interest in 3% or on the board of Formula One Delta Topco Limited, a CVC more of the Companys total voting rights: portfolio company, the other Directors have concluded that these relationships did not have any effect on the independence of those Directors.
Natureof Numberof holding Blackstone and CVC, along with KIRKBI, were the pre-IPO Nameof ordinary %ofissued Direct major shareholders of Merlin.
Blackstone and CVC ceased to shareholder shares sharecapital Indirect hold any shares in the Company in March 2015, while KIRKBI KIRKBI Invest A S 302,971,529 29.89 Direct presently holds 29.89% of the issued share capital of the Company.
62 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE Governance Report  The terms of reference of each of the Board and its Committees The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the are available on the Companys corporate website Board and for overseeing communications with all Board and www.
biz Committee members and shareholders.
He ensures that the Board receives sufficient information on financial, trading and The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board corporate issues prior to Board meetings.
and each of its Committees, also have access to the advice and services of the Group Legal Director General Counsel and The Board has established Health, Safety and Security, Audit, Company Secretary and other senior management, as well Remuneration, and Nomination Committees with formally as external advice on, inter alia, legal, accounting, remuneration, delegated duties and responsibilities and written terms of health and safety and corporate governance matters.
In addition, from time to time, separate Committees induction and subsequent training is provided to members of may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues when the Board and its Committees.
The table below sets out the membership of the Board and The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for day-to-day its Committees during the year, together with the number of operations and the development of strategic plans for meetings held and each members attendance.
The tables consideration by the Board.
He is assisted in this by an overleaf contain further information in relation to the Board Executive Committee of senior managers.
The Executive and its Committees covering their respective responsibilities, Committee is not a formal committee of the Board.
Health, Safety andSecurity Audit Remuneration Nomination 2 TheBoard Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Numberofmeetingsheld 9 4 4 4 3 7 Sir John Sunderland #9 #4 N A 3 #3 Nick Varney 9 4 N A N A N A Andrew Carr 9 4 N A N A N A Charles Gurassa 9 4 4 #4 3 7 Ken Hydon 9 N A #4 3 3 5 Fru Hazlitt 9 4 2 4 3 3 3 Trudy Rautio 1 N A N A N A 1 Sren Thorup Srensen 9 N A N A N A N A 4 6 6 Miguel Ko 4 N A 2 1 1 4 Dr. Gerry Murphy 5 N A N A N A N A 4 Rob Lucas 4 N A N A N A N A Table notes: # Denotes Chairman.
1 Number of meetings attended during the year during term of respective Director.
Rachel Chiang joined the Board effective 1 January 2016 and is therefore not included within this analysis.
2 In addition to the Board member s noted above, the Health, Safety and Security Committee also includes as members the managing directors of both the Resort Theme Parks and Midway Attractions Operating Groups and the director of health, safety and security.
These members attended all four meetings that took place in the year.
3 Trudy Rautio has attended each of the Board and Nomination Committee meetings held following her appointment in October.
4 Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas all stood down as Directors at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
5 Fru Hazlitt has attended each of the two Audit Committee meetings held following her appointment to this Committee.
6 Miguel Ko attended each of the two Audit Committee meetings and the only Nomination Committee meeting held prior to standing down at the AGM.
7 Sir John Sunderland and Ken Hydon did not formally attend one of the Remuneration Committee meetings, instead tabling their comments to its Chairman in advance.
63 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE Governance Report TheBoard Health,  Principal  TheHealth, assiststhe responsibilities .
,  andduties  Overseeing the Companys strategy and management.
Determining the Companys capital structure.
Overseeing the Companys financial reporting and controls.
Recommending to the Board, implementing and monitoring Ensuring the Company maintains a sound system of the Groups health, safety and security policy.
internal controls and risk management.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups health and Appr oval of the annual capital expenditure budget, safety processes and controls.
major capital projects and strategic transactions.
Reviewing the health and safety resources available Ensuring effective communication with shareholders within the Group and the skills of the health and and managing investor relations.
Considering and, if accepted, implementing Reviewing the adequacy of security processes and controls.
recommendations from Committees within their Reporting to the Board on matters within the remit of respective remits, including: the Committee.
Appointments to the Board and Committees: Boar d and senior management remuneration: See the Health, Safety and Security Committee Report on pages Succession planning: and 66 to 69 for further details on how the Group manages Changes to the Compan ys share incentive plans.
Health, Safety and Security risks.
Appointing Committees and agr eeing their terms of reference.
Corporate governance matters and reporting thereon.
Appr oving major policies, including: Health and saf ety policy: Fraud policy: and Shar e dealing policy.
Appr oving the appointment of principal financial and professional advisers.
Appr oval of major litigation.
Appr oval of Group insurance programme.
Numberof At least six times a year and as required or otherwise at the At least four times a year and at such other times as the meetings request of one or more of the Directors.
Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
Where urgent decisions are required on matters specifically reserved for the Board between meetings, there is a process in place to facilitate discussion and decision making.
Code Wecomply N A compliance The Code recommends that the Board of a UK listed plc should comprise at least 50% independent Non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman.
From the conclusion of the 2015 AGM the Board has complied with this recommendation.
64 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE Governance Report AuditCommittee  NominationCommittee  Theassiststhe     financialreporting, externalandinternal .
Setting the remuneration policy for Reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge Financial reporting.
Executive Directors and the Chairman.
and experience on the Board.
Reviewing and making recommendations Reviewing the size, structure and Whistleblowing and fraud.
to the Board on senior management composition of the Board.
Considering and making recommendations External audit.
Determining the individual remuneration to the Board on retirements, re-elections Reporting to the Board on matters within and benefits package of each of the and appointments of additional and the Committees remit, including the risk Executive Directors.
replacement Directors and on membership management process.
Determining the fees of the Chairman.
Considering the processes supporting Reviewing the design of share incentive Considering succession planning for both the assessment of the Groups longer term plans for approval by the Board.
Executive and Non-executive Directors solvency and liquidity which underlie the Ensuring appropriate reporting on and the Chairman.
remuneration matters in the Annual Considering the time required for Report and Accounts.
Directors to fulfil their roles.
See the Audit Committee Report on pages 70 to Developing a policy on diversity and 75 for further details on the Committees activities No Director may participate in discussions reporting on progress thereon.
relating to his own terms and conditions of Making appropriate recommendations to remuneration.
the Board on matters within the remit of the Committee.
Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board.
See the Nomination Committee Report on page 97 for further details on the Committees activities See the Directors Remuneration Report on pages in the year.
76 to 96 for further details on the Committees activities in the year.
At least three times during the financial year At least twice each year and at such other At least twice each year and at such other at appropriate times in the audit cycle.
times as the Board or the Committee times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
In addition, it meets at such other times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires, or if requested by the external auditors.
Wecomply Wecomply Wecomply The Code recommends that an Audit The Code recommends that a Remuneration The Code recommends that a majority of the Committee should comprise at least three Committee should comprise at least three members of the Nomination Committee independent Non-executive Directors and independent Non-executive Directors.
should be independent Non-executive that at least one member should have recent Directors.
The Committee consists of four independent Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of The Audit Committee consists of four the Board and consists of the Chairman of the independent Non-executive Directors.
Ken Committee and three independent NonHydon is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute executive Directors.
of Management Accountants, the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers and is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
No members of the Audit Committee have links with the Companys external auditors.
65 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder Through the course of the year, we have invested significantly in senior staff across each of the Operating Groups as well as The Health, Safety and Security HSS of our guests, our making enhancements to local working protocols and upgraded employees and the people who work in partnership with us software systems.
are of paramount importance to Merlin.
We have an absolute commitment to continuously achieve the highest practical safety  standards.
We will never compromise our commitment to health, The HSS Committee assists the Board in ensuring that HSS safety and security or become complacent in this area.
matters are managed effectively and proactively throughout the Group.
Following the traumatic accident at Alton Towers in June our immediate focus was to further strengthen our policies and This report describes the work of the HSS Committee and how processes.
The Group undertook a full investigation following it discharges its duties, together with details of the Groups HSS the accident and as a result added further safety protocols.
management systems, policies and processes.
On re-opening, The Smiler ride will incorporate extensive new safety measures, enhanced training and additional levels Lookingforward of supervisory procedures.
Looking forward we will continue to challenge, monitor and support the whole of the Merlin business in their HSS efforts.
 We have a strong history of delivering millions of safe Aligned with our philosophy of continuous improvement, we experiences to our guests and this comes in no small have continued to invest in and develop our HSS and engineering measure from our strong safety culture.
activities and control structures, ensuring we capture learning points and apply them across our Operating Groups.
SirJohnSunderland ChairmanoftheHealth,  24 February 2016  The HSS governance structure is illustrated below: HSS Committee PLC Board of the PLC Board Group HSS Executive Committee Department Operating Groups Lead HSS Operating Groups HSS Committees Professionals & Business Units Attraction Department HSS Professionals & Attractions Sites HSS Forums Representatives 66 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report HSS management system The Groups HSS Policy and health and safety management systems set mandatory obligations for standards and performance The Group operates a across all attractions and operations.
positive and proactive safety The requirements and policies set out in the Groups Global Health and Safety Manual are well established, providing a robust culture, its priority being to framework for delievering safe operations and enable monitoring for compliance and continual improvement.
safeguard guests, employees and contractors The role of operational management Operational management are responsible for and integral to HSS matters, supported by functional HSS specialists.
Two key safety management activities are as follows: Risk registers - attraction management prepare detailed HSS The HSS Committee reports to the Board, operating under risk registers that assist in the management of effective safety specific terms of reference available on the Companys website.
risk control by identifying and assessing all significant or It has three areas of focus: material risks.
The Groups principal HSS risks identified To set, monitor adherence to, and recommend improvements through these processes are summarised on pages 40 to 45. in, the Groups  for ensuring the Action plans - every attraction is required to prepare an health, safety and security of guests, employees, suppliers annual HSS action plan, driven by the results of its risk register, and operating assets.
safety inspections and audits, near-miss incident investigations To monitor the Groups processes for identifyingand and employee surveys.
Appropriate control measures are managingrisks.
To monitor the skills,  within the Groups HSS team.
 All of Merlins rides are managed for safety through their life cycle The HSS Committee comprises the Chairman, three independent and the Group seeks to comply with all applicable national or Non-executive Directors, the CEO, the CFO, the managing local legislation and industry standards.
directors of Resort Theme Parks and Midway Attractions and Merlins Group Health, Safety and Security Director.
Details of the Operational and engineering processes cover areas such as: codes frequency of and attendance at meetings is outlined on page 63. of safe working practices: new ride pre-use inspection and testing: emergency plans and procedures: as well as regular inspection, The Committee receives advice from Health, Safety and Security maintenance and refurbishment.
A more detailed insight into the professionals and is updated on industry best practice.
Issues role of a ride engineer during a typical annual cycle is provided discussed at the HSS Committee are shared with the Board.
HSSmanagement  The Group has a well developed approach to HSS management, Merlin recognises its responsibility to ensure that high standards in line with HS G 65 - the Health and Safety Executive HSE of health and safety are maintained on all of its construction endorsed business model for effective safety management in projects across the world.
When considering a new location or product, local legal The Group operates a positive and proactive safety culture, its requirements are carefully researched.
During the design phase priority being to meet or exceed industry and legal standards of a project any higher risk activity which might be required and above all safeguard guests, employees and contractors.
during construction, such as the need to work at height, is Procedures and practices are constantly reviewed to identify identified and minimised.
The Group ensures that the importance where there are opportunities to implement new safety of safe construction practice is recognised and adopted by improvements and reduce risks.
its commercial partners or landlords.
67 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Committee Report A contractors health and safety performance is one of the key Extensive health and safety training programmes, regular elements considered during a tendering process.
Contractors are refresher training and specific personal development needs are asked to explain and verify their health and safety management implemented.
These are tailored to particular job roles, based on systems and practices as well as providing details about how they risk assessment findings.
As a minimum, all employees receive HSS induction training and regular safety briefings.
will comply with both local legal requirements and the Groups policies and standards.
Communication to senior management is actively facilitated and employees are regularly consulted about risks and preventative The Group ensures that projects have sufficient resources and or protective measures.
timescales to enable their completion without compromising health and safety, capturing and acting on regular feedback on  any health and safety issues, incidents or challenges.
HSS performance is regularly reviewed by each attraction, each Operating Groups senior leadership team and the HSS FoodSafetyandHygiene Committee, using a blend of leading and lagging The Group recognises its duty to ensure that exposure of visitors, performance indicators.
employees and contractors on its sites to food related illnesses must be avoided.
The Group seeks to meet or exceed any All attractions in Merlin are subjected to routine health and safety national or local legal requirements, adopting the best practice audits, conducted by health and safety professionals independent approach associated with the international Hazard Analysis of the attraction being assessed.
These audits seek to evaluate and Critical Control Point HACCP system.
compliance with Merlins Global Health and Safety Manual and associated safety policies.
Any non-compliance or improvement The Group has a detailed and prescriptive Food Safety Manual opportunities identified then require remedial action.
These that provides clear and consistent direction for each attraction audits complement regional and attraction initiated safety on how to address food safety and hygiene risks.
The manual is inspections and audits that take place during the course of applicable to all Merlin sites and the content of the manual each year.
must be adhered to at all times.
 All attractions are regularly independently assessed by food safety Merlins safety arrangements help deliver safe ride experiences to specialists for compliance against the requirements of the Food millions of visitors each year.
Nonetheless, the Group will never Safety Manual.
Typically, theme parks are audited twice per year, become complacent and where improvements are identified will with Midway attractions audited at least annually.
seek to implement them immediately.
To ensure that HSS and engineering activities and control structures are commensurate Security with the Groups increasing scale, and to support the next phase Attractions maintain both active and passive security protocols in of growth, specialist teams have been expanded as follows: order to maintain the integrity of physical boundaries, together New senior HSS management roles to directly support with the operations and assets that sit within those boundaries.
the Resort Theme Parks and LEGOLAND Parks Operating Security risk assessments help ensure that the appropriate Groups, with updated reporting structures.
technology, techniques and resources commensurate to A new senior HSS role to support each of the Operating the national or local threat level are used.
Groups and focus exclusively on the development and implementation of HSS training and assurance programmes As the types of threats and risks evolve the Group works closely across the Group.
with local police and governmental security agencies to ensure A new Group engineering function to provide best in class appropriate intelligence is shared and attraction based security engineering support: ensure consistent groupwide engineering protocols remain suitable, proportional and robust.
standards and processes: and practical compliance assurance programmes.
 New, dedicated Training and Compliance Manager roles to HSS initiatives are regularly communicated to maintain employee reside within the engineering departments at each of our awareness, encourage real team engagement and a sense of theme parks.
ownership across the business, including initiatives such as: SixSpellsforSafety - introduced early in 2015, these demonstrate simple ways to operate safely and securely and are displayed on posters and banners at sites around the world.
ProtectingtheMagic intranet site - a new one-stop location containing HSS documentation, a brand new induction film and an engaging safety quiz.
68 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FOCUSON MERLIN ENGINEERING Merlins rides are kept running safely as a result of our rigorous approach to safety management.
Key to this are our engineers - highly trained, qualified and technically competent professionals, typically with core mechanical and or electrical skills.
Each engineer undergoes ride specific training and must demonstrate an excellent level of knowledge and competence before they are permitted to perform the activities we outline below.
Their individual performance is then continually assessed through shadowing, performance monitoring and auditing.
Daily Inspections are completed for safety critical It is typically done in early autumn for those parks elements of each ride, for example the integrity of that have a closed season or on a rotational basis passenger restraint systems, brakes and emergency where the park remains open throughout the year.
On completion, the ride will be signed off A rigorous programme of work sets out the level of as safe for use and handed over to the operations strip down and non-destructive testing required, as team to carry out pre-opening checks.
well as whether such activities are to be undertaken in-house or with third party specialist assistance.
Each ride undergoes Planned Maintenance, running in parallel to the daily inspections.
With the In-service Inspections require an independent and frequency and type of work specific to each ride, competent Inspection Body IB to annually check these routines can be completed either out of park the condition and suitability of a ride for continuing operating hours or during the day, for example safe use.
This includes thorough examination of all safety critical components.
The in-house engineering where a ride vehicle is relocated to the maintenance teams responsibility during this process is to strip workshop for its scheduled examination and service.
down each ride and prepare safety critical components ready for independent inspection Predictive Maintenance is carried out during and non-destructive testing.
operating hours, assessing a rides functionality and performance.
Ride engineers will use their Annual Maintenance takes place alongside the experience and the latest technology to monitor In-service Inspections, with the engineering team and evaluate ride performance, looking either at the carrying out work on each ride in line with overall operation of the ride, or certain equipment manufacturers recommendations, replacing used within it, checking for example running speed, components where required.
noise, vibration and operating temperatures.
On completion of the In-service Inspection, annual Reactive Tasks often relate to ride stoppages maintenance and function testing processes a which can occur for numerous reasons throughout Declaration of Operational Conformity or safety the day, for example guest behaviour resulting in certificate will be issued if the IB is satisfied with the the activation of an emergency stop or a fault condition of the ride.
This will typically be valid for condition being reported by the rides computer twelve months.
There can be minor variances to this control system.
process depending on the location of the attraction.
Attending engineers will be competent in all relevant Our engineers review ride performances regularly, technical aspects of the ride and will investigate working with the ride manufacturer and the IB to the cause and undertake corrective action.
Safety make Reliability Improvements, enhancing reliability, inspections and checks will then be followed to productivity and asset life.
After these reviews, it allow the ride to be put back into operation.
may be decided that an adjusted schedule of planned maintenance is required to maintain Shutdown Preparation involves planning for optimum performance.
In-service Inspection and Annual Maintenance activities, undertaken while the ride is shut down and taken out of service.
