Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE Governance Statement Introduction Our 2014 Effectiveness Review made a number of recommendations, including reviewing the balance and Merlin has a premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange composition of the Board, continuing our focus on succession and is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the planning for Executive Directors and facilitating greater dialogue Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs between the Board and senior management, in particular in and the Listing Rules.
Merlin believes that effective corporate relation to strategy.
All of the recommendations from the 2014 governance is a fundamental aspect of a well run company Effectiveness Review were specifically addressed during the year.
and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance across the Group.
In this regard, Merlin takes account Some further recommendations arose from the 2015 of the views of its shareholders and institutional shareholder Effectiveness Review, including formalising the training made representative bodies.
The Code can be viewed on the website available to Directors.
This recommendation has already been of the Financial Reporting Council www.
The DTRs actioned with a programme of Director training sessions and the Listing Rules can be viewed on the website of the having been introduced for 2016.
Investorrelations  The Company communicates with institutional and private Merlin was fully compliant throughout the accounting period shareholders in a number of ways and has a dedicated investor with all relevant provisions of the Code, the DTRs and the Listing relations team to facilitate the exchange of information and Rules, with the exception of the provisions relating to Board feedback between shareholders and shareholder representative composition for the period prior to the 2015 AGM.
Details of major shareholders are provided on page 62.
Boardcomposition The Board has undergone a number of changes during the year The Company undertakes regular meetings in which existing including the departure of Miguel Ko Non-executive Director, and potential investors are provided with information on the Dr. Gerry Murphy Blackstone Representative Director and financial and trading position of the Group.
This activity is led by Rob Lucas CVC Representative Director at the AGM, followed the CEO and the CFO, together with the Companys investor by the appointment as Non-executive Directors of Trudy Rautio relations team.
They report back regularly to the Board so that in October and of Yun Rachel Chiang effective January 2016, the Non-executive Directors in particular can appreciate and which together have led to an increase in Board diversity.
Trudy discuss the views of shareholders.
During the year the Chairman and Rachel were appointed after rigorous search processes using and the Company Secretary also met with many of our leading Spencer Stuart and Russell Reynolds respectively, both of which shareholders to ensure full and mutually constructive dialogue.
are external search companies with no links to Merlin.
Merlins 2016 financial calendar is set out on page 162.
Fair,  The Companys corporate website is regularly updated with news As part of the Companys commitment to maintaining high and information, including its Annual Report and Accounts, which standards of corporate governance, the Board has put in place set out our strategy and performance together with our plans for a process dedicated to ensuring that the Annual Report and future growth.
Our presentations to analysts and shareholders Accounts is presented in a way that is fair, balanced and are also available on the Company website.
This process includes a review of all Board and Committee meetings by the Company Secretary of any matters At our AGM all shareholders have the opportunity to discuss for inclusion, as well as a series of specific reviews undertaken and raise questions concerning the performance, trading and by a dedicated Disclosure Committee of senior managers.
development of Merlin and to vote on the resolutions proposed.
 During the year externally facilitated evaluations were undertaken, as required every three years, in relation to the Board and its Committees, as well as of the internal audit function and the external auditors.
These were facilitated by Prism Cosec, who are independent of the Company and also advise the Company on company secretarial compliance matters.
