Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOMINATION Committee Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder Successionplanning The Board and Nomination Committee have undertaken detailed This report describes the activities of the Nomination Committee succession planning reviews during 2015, focused on Executive during 2015.
The Committee met three times during the year Director positions as well as other senior manager roles within and focused its attention on Board appointments, succession the Group.
This has identified key individuals already in the planning and diversity.
Group, for whom high level training and development opportunities have been established and implemented.
Boardappointments One of the primary objectives of the Nomination Committee A number of important changes to the management structure during the year has been to address the composition of the were implemented during the year, including the creation of a Board following the departure of the Representative Directors New Openings group focused on developing and opening new of Blackstone and CVC, having regard to the key markets of the attractions globally.
We continue to discuss the Groups senior USA and Asia Pacific region in which a significant part of the management structure and how that might evolve as Merlin Groups strategic development is focused.
Following the announcement of the proposed departure of The Nomination Committee is satisfied that management have Miguel Ko at the 2015 AGM, the Nomination Committee sought implemented credible and effective succession planning across its to identify further Non-executive Directors with particular senior management and has a management structure which is knowledge and experience of the USA and Asia Pacific markets.
As a result Trudy Rautio was appointed as a Non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2015.
Trudys extensive Diversity knowledge of the US leisure market will be a valuable addition to Merlins policy is for our leaders to have a diversity of thinking, the Board.
The appointment of Rachel Chiang as a Non-executive experience, gender, country of origin and cultural background.
Director with effect from 1 January 2016, with her significant We believe a diverse Board and management team is more in experience of the Asia Pacific market, further strengthened touch with our customers, employees and investors.
This policy the Board, in particular in relation to this important area of is reflected in the approach we are taking to recruitment development focus.
at senior manager and Board level.
As a result of the Board changes during the year, the Board is now fully compliant with the Board composition provisions of the SirJohnSunderland Code and reflects a wider diversity of skills, regional knowledge  and backgrounds.
24 February 2016 Reflecting these changes to the Board, a number of updates have been made to the membership of the Committees, effective after the Nomination Committee meeting on 24 February 2016.
Fru Hazlitt has stepped down from the Audit Committee.
In addition to both Trudy Rautio and Rachel Chiang joining the Audit Committee, Trudy joined the Remuneration Committee and Rachel joined the Health, Safety and Security Committee.
With effect from 24 February 2016, the Nomination Committee will consist of Sir John Sunderland, Charles Gurassa, Fru Hazlitt and Ken Hydon.
