Evaluation The Corporate The principal corporate governance The terms of reference for the Executive Governance Code requires the evaluation of guidance that applies to companies listed Chairman and the senior independent the board to be externally facilitated at least with the UK Listing Authority during non-executive director can be viewed on every three years.
The Company was due to the year reported on is contained in the http: investors.
com corporatehave its evaluation externally facilitated during Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate governance.
Kevin Loosemore leads the the year under review.
However, the board Governance Code 2012 the Corporate board and the Company in its relationships considered that it was appropriate to postpone Governance Code, which is available with all stakeholders and customers.
He the external evaluation for a year due to the at www.
The UK Corporate is responsible for all aspects of executive recent significant changes that the Company Governance Code 2014 will apply to the management including business strategy and the board have undergone following the Companys next annual reporting period.
He is also acquisition of TAG on 20November 2014. responsible for chairing board and general Changes to the board have resulted in one meetings, facilitating the effective Compliance statement executive director, Stephen Murdoch, stepping contribution of non-executive directors, The directors are committed to ensuring down from the board on 20November 2014 to ensuring effective communication with that the Company works towards assist with the balance between independent shareholders and upholding the highest compliance with the main principles and non-independent directors, two nonstandards of integrity and probity.
Karen of the Corporate Governance Code independent non-executive directors, Prescott Slatford chairs the nomination committee and throughout the year reported and is therefore responsible for succession Ashe and David Golob being appointed on on the Company has been in compliance planning.
Also, in her role as senior 20November 2014 and one independent except for the following: independent director, Karen Slatford leads non-executive director, Karen Geary, being on governance issues, including the annual appointed on 8 January 2015.
Chairman and Chief Executive review of board effectiveness, and acts conducted an internal evaluation of the board Officer The Corporate Governance Code as an intermediary, if necessary, between and its committees during the year under requires that the roles of Chairman and Chief non-executive directors and the Executive review and an external evaluation of the board Executive Officer should not be exercised Chairman and between the Company and will be carried out during the financial year by the same individual.
Kevin Loosemore shareholders, providing a point of contact ending 30 April 2016. formerly non-executive Chairman was for those shareholders who wish to raise appointed to the role of Executive Chairman issues with the board, other than through The principles set out in the Corporate on 14 April 2011.
The nomination committee the Executive Chairman.
In addition, the Governance Code cover five areas: leadership, and the board considers that the combined non-executive directors have met without effectiveness, accountability, remuneration role is in the interests of shareholders in order the Executive Chairman present to appraise and relations with shareholders.
With the to utilize the proven leadership qualities and the Executive Chairmans performance.
exception of remuneration which is dealt significant experience of Kevin Loosemore The meeting was chaired by the senior with separately in the remuneration report through a challenging period for the independent director, Karen Slatford.
The on pages 48 to 69 the following section sets Company and to ensure the on-going board has a clear majority of independent out how the board has applied these principles.
commercial success of the Company.
directors, with five out of nine directors Furthermore, Kevin Loosemore has been being fully independent.
with the Company since its flotation in 2005 and has therefore provided stability and continuity through his detailed understanding The board of the Groups operations and the markets The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for the Groups system in which it operates.
In order to mitigate any of corporate governance.
The biographies of each director can be found on potential concerns over the combined role, pages 36 and 37.
As at 30 April 2015, the board comprised nine directors: David Maloney was appointed as Deputy Chairman on 14 April 2011 and performed Kevin Loosemore Richard Atkins this role as well as being senior independent Executive Chairman Independent non-executive director non-executive director until his resignation on 25 September 2014, when Karen Slatford Mike Phillips David Golob was appointed as senior independent Chief Financial Officer Non-executive director appointed director.
Karen Slatford has assumed the 20 November 2014 duties fulfilled by David Maloney as Deputy Karen Slatford Chairman and will continue to do so until Senior independent non-executive director Prescott Ashe such time as when the Chairman and Chief Non-executive director appointed Executive Officer roles are split.
On 15 April Tom Skelton 20 November 2014 2014 the Company announced a transition Independent non-executive director back to separate roles of Chairman and Chief Karen Geary Executive Officer in the following 12 to 24 Tom Virden Independent non-executive director months.
Over the coming 10 months the Independent non-executive director appointed 8 January 2015 board will continue to evaluate the orderly separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Internal and external candidates will be evaluated for the role of Chief Executive Officer whilst at all times aiming to ensure appropriate continuity and continued focus on performance.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 38 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Each new director receives a comprehensive, The role of the non-executive directors is In the year under review the board met formal and tailored induction into the to ensure that independent judgment is formally on five occasions.
The board also met on a further eight occasions to receive Companys operations.
The directors can brought to board deliberations and decisions.
interim updates or consider matters arising request that appropriate training is available between formal meetings.
New directors inductions The non-executive directors possess a wide include briefings on the Companys range of skills and experience, relevant to While the board retains overall responsibility business, strategy, constitution and the development of the Company, which for, and control of the Company, day-to-day decision making process, the roles and complement those of the executive directors.
management of the business is conducted responsibilities of a director and the by the executive directors.
Review of the legislative framework.
New directors also Karen Slatford, the senior independent Groups principal business activities is the meet with the Groups senior product and non-executive director, Tom Skelton, responsibility of the executive committee.
other managers and with shareholders Tom Virden, Richard Atkins and Karen The executive committee comprises the at the AGM.
A comprehensive induction Geary, each a non-executive director, are executive directors and senior managers pack is available to directors at all times considered by the board to be independent.
reporting to the Executive Chairman.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance As part of its leadership and control of For the last two years and during the year Code, all directors are subject to election the Company, the board has agreed a list under review, the evaluation of the board by the shareholders at the first AGM of the of items that are specifically reserved for was conducted internally and took the form Company after their appointment and to its consideration.
These include business of surveys completed by members of the re-election by the shareholders on an annual strategy, financing arrangements, material board with respect to the performance basis at each AGM.
Therefore all directors will acquisitions and divestments, approval of the board and each of its committees, retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-executive of the annual budget, major capital as well as individual director surveys.
directors are appointed for specific terms.
Full expenditure projects, risk management, The surveys included assessment of the terms of their appointment are to be found treasury policies and establishing and effectiveness of the performance of the in the remuneration report.
The letters of monitoring internal controls.
At each board and its committees and compliance appointment for the non-executive directors meeting, the board reviews progress of the with corporate governance principles.
are available for inspection by any person at Group towards its objectives and receives Furthermore, the senior independent the Companys registered office during normal papers on key subjects in advance of each director meets with the non-executive business hours and at the AGM during, and board meeting.
These typically cover: and executive directors at least once a for 15 minutes prior to, the meeting.
year to review the Executive Chairmans Strategy and budgets: performance.
The board and each of its Tom Skelton has been on the board for committees discuss the results of their nine years and will not seek re-election Business and financial performance: respective evaluation.
The evaluation at the AGM in September 2015.
The board found the performance of each director has started a search for a replacement.
Product plans and development: to be effective, that each director had The board considers that all of the demonstrated commitment to the role non-executive directors bring strong Corporate activities: and that the board had provided effective independent oversight and continue to leadership and control.
The board Human resources: and established that the board had a good has been through a continuous process balance of skills and personalities and of refreshment since 2010 with the Investor relations.
continued to operate in a culture of appointment of four new independent openness and mutual respect.
The board has agreed procedures for of the evaluation are used to assist the directors to follow if they believe they board in developing its approach going For the year ended 30 April 2016, the board require independent professional advice forward and include recommendations to has scheduled meetings on a regular basis, in the furtherance of their duties and continue refining the succession planning approximately every one to two months with these procedures allow the directors to and developing and retaining executive additional meetings when circumstances take such advice at the Companys expense.
talent, which are being implemented.
In months in which In addition, all directors have direct access the board does not meet, update calls are to the advice and services of the Company An external evaluation will be conducted scheduled to review progress.
The Company Secretary is in the year ending 30 April 2016. receive an agenda and board papers in accountable to the board through the advance of meetings to help them make Executive Chairman to whom she reports.
an effective contribution at the meetings.
It is the responsibility of the Company The board makes full use of appropriate Secretary to ensure that board procedures technology as a means of updating and are followed and all rules and regulations informing all its members.
Board papers are complied with.
The Company Secretarys are circulated electronically to a tablet device, responsibilities include facilitating the allowing directors to access documentation induction and professional development more easily and securely.
The executive of directors and ensuring the smooth flow directors ensure regular informal contact of information between board members, is maintained with non-executive directors between the board and its committees who are invited to accompany the executive and between non-executive directors directors when visiting the Groups offices.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Corporate governance report continued Attendance at meetings Board and committee meeting attendance The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended by each Audit Remuneration Nomination director in the year ended 30 April 2015 Board committee committee committee can be found in the table alongside.
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Kevin Loosemore 13 13 3 3 Directors are normally provided with the Mike Phillips 13 13 agenda and supporting papers for board 1 and committee meetings in the week prior to Stephen Murdoch 8 8 the meeting.
If unable to attend a meeting a 2 David Maloney 7 7 1 1 3 2 director will provide feedback to the Executive Tom Skelton 13 13 5 5 6 6 3 3 Chairman, the chair of the committee or the Karen Slatford 13 13 5 5 6 6 3 3 Company Secretary and their comments are then communicated to the meeting.
Tom Virden 13 13 5 5 6 6 Richard Atkins 13 12 5 5 3 3 Conflicts of interest 3 Prescott Ashe 4 4 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, 3 David Golob 4 4 the Company has put in place procedures to 4 Karen Geary 2 2 deal with conflicts of interests, which have operated effectively.
The board is aware of During period of appointment.
the other commitments of its directors and 1 Stephen Murdoch stepped down on 20 November 2014. is satisfied that these do not conflict with 2 David Maloney retired on 25 September 2014. their duties as directors of the Company.
3 Prescott Ashe and David Golob were appointed on 20 November 2014.
Any changes to these commitments are 4 Karen Geary was appointed on 8 January 2015. reported to the board.
Board committees A number of Group-wide policies, issued Human resources In accordance with best practice, and administered centrally, have been set The Group endeavours to appoint employees the Company has established audit, to ensure compliance with key governance with appropriate skills, knowledge and nomination and remuneration committees, standards.
These policies cover areas such as experience for the roles they undertake.
with written terms of reference for each finance, contract approvals, data protection, that deal with the committees respective share dealing and anti-bribery.
The Group has a range of policies which authorities and duties.
The full terms of are aimed at retaining and providing reference of all the committees are available The conduct of Micro Focus individual incentives for key staff.
Objectives are set from the Company Secretary or can be businesses is delegated to local and regional for departments and employees derived viewed on the Companys website at executive management teams subject from the Groups business objectives.
com corporateto a chart of approvals policy which is Performance is formally measured against governance.
The Company is aware that communicated to all employees in the these objectives twice each year.
The the Executive Chairman is not regarded Group.
These teams are accountable for the Group has a clear and well-understood as independent for the purposes of the conduct and performance of their businesses organizational structure and each employee Corporate Governance Code.
within the agreed business strategy.
knows his or her line of accountability.
Remuneration committee Announcements Management structure Details of the remuneration committee All major announcements are approved A clearly defined organizational structure are described in the remuneration report by the executive directors and circulated exists within which individual responsibilities on pages 48 to 69. to the board for approval prior to issue.
are identified and can be monitored.
The management of the Group as a whole is Accountability and audit The Group also has internal and external delegated to the Executive Chairman and The board is responsible for the preparation checks to guard against unauthorized the executive committee.
of the Annual Report and Accounts.
board considers the Annual Report and The executive committee meets regularly Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, to agree strategy, monitor performance Budgetary process balanced and understandable and provides and consider key business issues.
As part A comprehensive budgeting system allows the information necessary for shareholders of its review, it considers the risks associated managers to submit detailed budgets which to assess the Companys performance, with the delivery of strategy and important are reviewed and amended by executive business model and strategy.
governance issues within the Groups directors prior to submission to the board operating companies.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the audit committee and details of how There are a number of Group Insurance this was done are described in the audit administrative functions such as Group The Group keeps under review, with its committee report on pages 42 to 46.
Finance, Treasury, Human Resources, IT, insurance brokers, its portfolio of insurance Corporate Communications and Legal.
policies to ensure that the policies are These functions report to the board appropriate to the Groups activities through the executive committee.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 40 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information each such resolution and the number Under the terms of the Relationship Shareholder relations of votes withheld.
A resolution will be Agreement, Wizard and the Wizard The Company values the views of proposed for each substantive issue and Shareholders have agreed to the shareholders and recognizes their interests the chairs of the audit, remuneration independence obligations contained in the Groups strategy and performance.
and nomination committees will attend in the Relationship Agreement.
The Company reports formally to The board confirms that, since entry shareholders twice a year, around June July into the Relationship Agreement on preliminary announcement of annual Information on share capital 20 November 2014 until 7 July 2015, results and December interim statement.
and other matters being the latest practicable date prior The Annual Report is mailed to shareholders The information about share capital required to the publication of this Annual Report: at least 20 business days before the AGM.
to be included in this statement can be Separate announcements of all material found on page 72 of the directors report i the Company has complied with the events are made as necessary.
Regular and in note 29 to the financial statements.
independence provisions included in communications are maintained with the Relationship Agreement: and institutional shareholders and presentations Relationship agreement with are given to shareholders when the half year controlling shareholder ii so far as the Company is aware, and full year financial results are announced Any person who exercises or controls on the independence provisions included and at other times.
In addition to the their own or together with any person with in the Relationship Agreement have Executive Chairman and Chief Financial whom they are acting in concert, 30% or been complied with by Wizard, Officer, who have regular contact with more of the votes able to be cast on all or the Wizard Shareholders and their investors, Karen Slatford the senior substantially all matters at general meetings respective associates.
independent non-executive director of a company are known as controlling and the other non-executive directors shareholders.
The Financial Conduct As there are no controlling shareholders are available to meet with shareholders Authoritys Listing Rules require companies of the Company other than Wizard and as and when required in order to develop with controlling shareholders to enter into the Wizard Shareholders, there is no need a balanced understanding of the issues and a written and legally binding agreement for the Relationship Agreement to require concerns particularly of major shareholders.
which is intended to ensure that the Wizard or the Wizard Shareholders to The whole board is kept up to date at its controlling shareholder complies with procure compliance by any third parties regular meetings with the views of certain independence provisions.
The with the independence provisions of the shareholders and analysts.
External analysts agreement must contain undertakings that: Relationship Agreement.
reports are also circulated to directors.
a transactions and arrangements with the In accordance with the Relationship The Companys website www.
com controlling shareholder and or any of its Agreement, Wizard has the right to provides an overview of the business including associates will be conducted at arms nominate up to two persons to be nonits strategy, products and objectives.
length and on normal commercial terms: executive directors for so long as Wizard, the Wizard Shareholders and their All Group announcements are available b neither the controlling shareholder nor respective associates together hold an on the Companys website and new any of its associates will take any action interest, either direct or indirect, in 30% announcements are published without that would have the effect of preventing or more of the aggregate voting rights in delay.
The terms of reference of each the listed company from complying with the Company from time to time and one of the boards three committees and other its obligations under the Listing Rules: and person to be a non-executive director for important corporate governance documents so long as Wizard, the Wizard Shareholders are available on the website and from the c neither the controlling shareholder nor and their respective associates together Company Secretary.
Additionally, the any of its associates will propose or hold an interest, either direct or indirect, Executive Chairman, Chief Financial Officer procure the proposal of a shareholder in 15% or more of the aggregate voting and Head of Investor Relations provide resolution which is intended or appears rights in the Company from time to time focal points for shareholders enquiries to be intended to circumvent the proper any such non-executive director being and dialogue throughout the year.
application of the Listing Rules.
Prescott Ashe and David Golob are the first Representative AGM The board confirms that, in accordance with Directors and as such are not considered The Companys AGM will be held on the Listing Rules, on 20 November 2014, the by the board to be independent by virtue 24September 2015 at 3pm UK time.
Company entered into such an agreement of their positions held with Golden Gate It will provide an opportunity for the board the Relationship Agreement with: Capital and Francisco Partners respectively to meet with all shareholders and the who are shareholders of Wizard.
participation of shareholders is encouraged.
i Wizard Parent LLC Wizard which At the meeting, in addition to the statutory currently has a total shareholding Following completion of the integration business, the board will be available of approximately 39.86% of the review and given the strong trading and for questions from shareholders.
Companys voting rights: and outlook for the company the Independent Board has released Wizard Parent LLC In accordance with the Corporate ii Shareholders of Wizard which currently Wizard, the former owner of TAG, Governance Code recommendations, have a total shareholding of approximately from the restriction under the Relationship the Company will count all proxy votes 88.7% of Wizards voting rights the Agreement from them trading their and will indicate the level of proxies lodged, Wizard Shareholders.
ordinary shares during the 365 day the number of proxy votes for and against period following completion.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
