Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Nomination committee report During the year the committee was The nomination committee the committee The terms of reference of the committee responsible for the search and selection is comprised of Karen Slatford senior include, among other matters, the following process for a new independent non-executive independent non-executive director who responsibilities: director.
Karen Geary was introduced to the chairs the committee, Kevin Loosemore Chair of the committee by Lygon Group, Executive Chairman and Tom Skelton To review the structure, size and which has no connection with the Company.
composition including the skills, The Chair of the committee proposed Karen The committee met three times during the knowledge, experience and diversity Geary for consideration by the committee as financial year.
All three current members of required of the board and make a possible non-executive director and Karen the committee attended all three meetings.
recommendations to the board Geary was interviewed by individual members The committee will meet at least twice with regard to any changes: of the committee.
In addition members of during the coming financial year.
the committee were invited to recommend To identify and nominate, for the suitable candidates.
The process culminated The committee is responsible to the full board approval of the board, candidates to fill in the appointment of Karen Geary as an for proposing candidates to the board, having board vacancies as and when they arise: independent non-executive director with regard to the balance and structure of the effect from 8 January 2015.
In addition the board and takes into consideration the To give full consideration to succession committee reviewed the board succession benefits of diversity in terms of both gender planning for directors and other plan.
Retention of individuals within the and ethnicity.
The committee uses consultants senior executives: executive committee and top talent critical to identify suitable candidates and diversity employees within the Group has been is included in the criteria set for selecting To keep under review the leadership reviewed by the remuneration committee appropriate candidates.
needs of the Group, both executive during the year.
A review of succession and non-executive, with a view to plans and individual plans for the executive The board has considered diversity in broader ensuring the continued ability of the committee and top talent critical employees terms than just gender and believes it is also Group to compete effectively in the within the Group will be conducted during important to reach the correct balance of skills, marketplace: and the year commencing 1 May 2015 after the experience, independence and knowledge organizational changes resulting from the on the board.
All board appointments will To review annually the time required acquisition of TAG have settled.
be made on merit with the aim of achieving from non-executives, evaluating whether a correct balance.
The board intends to move they are spending enough time to in the medium-term to a composition where in fulfil their duties.
excess of 25% of members are female provided The committees terms of reference can the above principle of correct balance is not be found on the Companys website: compromised.
The Group has formal policies Karen Slatford www.
in place to promote equality of opportunity, Chair, Nomination committee across the whole organization.
Currently, the 7 July 2015 board comprises seven men 77.77% 2014: 87.5% and two women 22.23% 2014: 12.5% and the Company Secretary who is also a woman.
As opportunities arise the board will seek to increase the presence of women on the board consistent with the above policy.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
