ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Report There is a clear division of responsibilities between the role of Compliance with the UK Corporate the Chairman and that of the Chief Executive Officer.
Whilst the Governance Code Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that the Company During the year ended 31 December 2015 and to the date of has appropriate objectives and an effective strategy.
He ensures this document, the Company has complied with the provisions that there is a Chief Executive Officer with a team to implement of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
The the strategy and that there are procedures in place to inform Code is publicly available on the FRC website www.
the Board of performance against objectives.
The Chairman In the following Corporate Governance section, together with the also ensures that the Company is operating in accordance with Strategic Report on pages 1 to 49, the Directors Remuneration the principles of corporate governance.
The Chairmans other Report on pages 67 to 79 and the Directors Report on pages 82 significant commitments are noted on page 51.
The Board to 85, we describe how we have applied the main principles of the considers that these are not a constraint on the Chairmans Code.
agreed time commitment to the Company.
Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith is the Senior Independent The Board and its Operation Director and acts as an alternative channel of communication for The Board of Michael Page International plc is the body shareholders.
She also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and and serves as an intermediary for other Directors.
has the powers and duties set out in relevant laws of England and Steve Ingham, the Chief Executive Officer, has overall responsibility Wales and in its Articles of Association.
for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations.
He The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the develops the vision and strategy for the Boards review, implements Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls the Boards approved strategy and chairs the Executive Committee which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board is known within the Group as the Executive Board which executes collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the the delivery of the annual operating plans.
He also leads the success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied that it has met the programme of communication with shareholders.
Codes requirements for its effective operation.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors are equal members of the Board and have collective responsibility for Board decisions.
The Composition of the Board Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of skills and experience to As at the end of the year under review the Board comprised the the Board and its Committees.
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its and four Non-Executive Directors.
The biographies of each of decision which includes: these Directors can be found on pages 51 to 54.
Group strategy and corporate objectives: Patrick fide Smedt was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the Company on 1 August 2015.
Robin Buchanan served as NonBoard is willing to take in achieving the strategic objectives of Executive Chairman of the Company until his resignation from the the Company: Board on 31 December 2015.
On the same date David Lowden Major changes to the nature, scope or scale of the business of was appointed Chairman of the Company.
All other Directors the Group: served throughout the year.
The Board considers that during the year under review, and in the case of Patrick fide Smedt from his Corporate governance matters: date of appointment onwards, each of Simon Boddie, Danuta Approval of Nomination Committee recommendations on Gray, David Lowden and Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith were the appointment and removal of Directors and succession independent.
In addition, the Board determined that each of Robin planning: Buchanan and David Lowden were independent at the time of Changes to the Groups capital structure and approval of any their respective appointments as Chairman.
business plan prior to a new entity being established in a new Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith will complete nine years on the territory: Board in May 2016.
Due to the recent Board changes and Rubys Financial reporting, audit and tax matters: extensive experience, gained through the different parts of the Material contracts and transactions not in the ordinary course economic cycle, the Directors have requested, and Ruby has of business: agreed, to continue to serve on the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Consequently Ruby will stand for re-election at the Material capital expenditure projects: forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ruby will cease to be a Approval of the annual budget: member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees with effect Obtaining major finance: and from 23 May 2016 and will also step down as Senior Independent Director in due course.
Communications with stakeholders and complying with regulatory requirements.
56 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Report Induction, Training and Information Board Committees The Chairman is responsible for the induction of new directors The Board has three principal Board Committees, each of which and is assisted by the Company Secretary.
On appointment to regularly reports to the Board: the Audit Committee, Nomination the Board, each Director discusses with the Chairman and the Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The Audit and Company Secretary the extent of the training required.
A tailored Remuneration Committees are comprised solely of independent induction programme to cover their individual requirements is Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is comprised then compiled.
Elements of the programme typically consist of of independent Non-Executive Directors and chaired by the meetings with senior executives, site visits, attending internal Chairman of the Board who was independent on appointment.
conferences and consultant shadowing to understand the Details of the composition and activities of each Committee day-to-day activities of a recruitment consultant.
In addition, can be found in the respective reports of each Committee: information is provided on the Companys services, Group Audit Committee Report on pages 63 and 64: the Nomination structure, Board arrangements, financial and environmental, social Committee Report on page 61: and the Directors Remuneration and governance information, major competitors and major risks.
Directors update and refresh their knowledge and familiarity Each Committee has clear terms of reference, copies of with the Group through site visits, participation at meetings with which can be found on the Companys website www.
and receiving presentations from senior management.
Each Committee also reviews its effectiveness and makes addition to the access that every Director has to the Company recommendations to the Board of any appropriate changes Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board as and when required.
The Chairman of each of the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with as well as Committees will be available to answer shareholders questions at advising the Board on new legislation and corporate governance the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board Committees and Directors are also given access The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of these to independent professional advice at the Groups expense if the Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their Committee members and to all members of the Board unless responsibilities.
it would be inappropriate to do so.
For each Board and Committee meeting Directors receive a pack The Group also has an Executive Board which is chaired by the of relevant information on the matters to be discussed.
It comprises the Chief Financial Officer the Board moved to using a third party board portal to distribute and other senior executives, biographies for whom can be found information more quickly and securely.
The Chief Executive Officer on page 55.
The Executive Board usually meets four times a year presents a comprehensive update on the business issues across and is responsible for assisting the Chief Executive Officer in the the Group to the Board and the Chief Financial Officer presents performance of his duties.
These include the development and a detailed analysis of the financial performance.
The Board also implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures receives at each Board Meeting an Investor Relations Report, and budgets.
These activities are performed at a regional level by including any feedback from investors and Investor Roadshows.
regional boards for each of the UK, EMEA, Asia Pacific and the Regional Managing Directors and other senior managers also Americas.
Each regional board usually meets at least four times attend relevant parts of Board meetings and the Board Strategy a year.
Day in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
57 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Board and Committee Attendance The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings, demonstrating commitment to their role as Directors of the Company.
The Board met nine times during the year.
Director Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended 1 Robin Buchanan 9 8 N A N A 6 4 N A N A Simon Boddie 9 9 7 7 6 6 3 3 2 Patrick fide Smedt 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 Danuta Gray 9 9 7 7 6 6 3 3 Steve Ingham 9 9 N A N A N A N A N A N A David Lowden 9 9 7 7 6 6 3 3 3 Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith 9 8 7 6 6 5 3 2 Kelvin Stagg 9 9 N A N A N A N A N A N A Notes: 1.
Robin Buchanan was unable to attend the Board Meeting held on 12 October 2015 and the Nomination Committee Meetings held on 12 October 2015 and 9 December 2015 as these Meetings were devoted to the succession planning of the Chairman.
Patrick fide Smedt was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 August 2015 and, therefore, was eligible to attend only four Board meetings, three Audit and Nomination Committee meetings and two Remuneration Committee meetings.
He was unable to attend one Board and one Nomination Committee meeting, both of which were held on the same day and on short notice.
Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith was unable to attend the August Board and Committee meetings, all of which were held on the same day, due to a prior engagement which she was unable to rearrange.
During the year under review the Non-Executive Directors met on several occasions without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also met on several occasions without the presence of the Chairman.
58 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Report to its strategic planning and its focus on development and Succession Planning succession planning.
Much work had been undertaken during the Executive development and succession planning discussions are year under review in respect of risk appetite, risk management held each year.
These discussions focus on the development and and the Groups longer term viability as detailed in the Strategic succession of the Executive Directors, Executive Board members Report on page 40.
The Corporate Social Responsibility plan and other senior managers in the Group with the aim of ensuring was further reviewed by a number of senior executives in the that existing senior executives are being developed and that there Group with a view to improving data gathering and reporting.
is a pipeline of talented senior individuals within the business.
The Groups corporate and social responsibility activities are Development and succession planning is a critical part of the Chief disclosed in the Strategic Report on pages 21 to 24.
The number Executive Officers performance objectives for annual bonus and of Board and Committee meetings were reviewed and redesigned long-term remuneration.
leading to a reduction in the number of Committee meetings, while ensuring that the effectiveness of the Committees was not In addition, the Nomination Committee also considers the breadth compromised.
and depth of experience of the Non-Executive Directors and considers on a regular basis succession planning for the Board An action plan of the more significant matters for further attention as a whole.
Information on the Boards policy on diversity both during 2016 was agreed as follows: at the Board level and the Group as a whole can be found in the Continue to build the bench strength as part of the ongoing Nomination Committee Report on page 61 and the Strategic succession planning process: Report on pages 22 and 25.
With the recent Board changes, review the Boards ongoing improvement of its composition, practices and processes: and Performance Evaluation Further investigate the strategic investment opportunities in In line with the Code, each year the Board undertakes a formal key markets which will deliver competitive advantage.
and rigorous evaluation of its own performance, that of its These action points will be reviewed by the Board and its relevant Committees and its individual Directors.
An externally facilitated Committees in the second quarter of 2016 to ensure they are evaluation was undertaken in 2013 and in accordance with dealt with accordingly.
the Code will be undertaken again in 2016.
In 2015 the Board undertook an internal evaluation of the Board and each of the In addition, the Chairman appraises the performance of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
This process individual Board members and meets with the Directors involved an objective and comprehensive evaluation of the individually to discuss their appraisals.
The Senior Independent balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, how the Director is responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman and the Board works together, whether it is effective and well supported.
views of the other Directors are canvassed in this respect.
The The 2015 evaluation also considered whether the 2014 action results of the performance evaluation of each Director and the points see below had been dealt with adequately.
The evaluation Chairman are reported to the Board.
was conducted by the Company Secretary by means of detailed questionnaires completed by the Board, Committee members and Re-election of Directors regular attendees of the Committees.
The results of the evaluation The Companys Articles of Association provide that each Director for each of the Committees were reviewed and discussed by each must retire from office every three years.
The Code goes beyond of the relevant Committees and then reported to the Board as a this, requiring all Directors to retire and stand for re-election at whole, together with the results of the appraisal of the Board itself.
The Company complies with the The 2014 internal evaluation noted the following action plan of Code requirement.
All Directors, except Patrick fide Smedt, will matters for 2015: submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual The continued development of the Boards approach to General Meeting.
Patrick fide Smedt, who was appointed a strategic planning: Director after the Companys last Annual General Meeting will, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, stand for Continued focus on development and succession planning: election at the Annual General Meeting.
Continued development and embedding of risk management throughout the business: Internal Control and Risk Management Development of a clear Corporate Social Responsibility plan: In accordance with the Code the Board has overall responsibility and for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control Redesign of the schedule of Board and Audit Committee and risk management.
The procedures established by the Board meetings.
have been designed and implemented to meet the particular These action points were followed up and further work was requirements of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
completed in respect of each item.
These procedures also provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks.
The system of internal The 2015 evaluation concluded that the Board is well set up to control includes financial, compliance and operational controls, be effective: it has the right Executive leadership team in place: which are designed to meet the Groups particular needs.
These and continues to build bench strength from within the Group.
It controls aim to safeguard Group assets, ensure that proper confirmed that the Board has continued to develop its approach 59 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 accounting records are maintained, that the financial information risk appetite and its assessment of its longer term viability can be used within the business and for publication is reliable and to found in the Strategic Report on pages 36 and 40.
Further, the support the successful delivery of the Groups Strategic Plan.
Any Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has carried system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and internal control systems, including a review of the internal audit activities and the financial, operational and compliance controls for In practice the Board delegates the implementation of the Boards the period from 1 January 2015 to the date of this Annual Report.
policy on risks and control to executive management and this is No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
A confirmation monitored by an Internal Audit function which reports back to the of any necessary actions is, therefore, not provided.
However, had Board through the Audit Committee.
there been any such failings or weaknesses the Board confirms that The key elements of our system of internal control are as follows: necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
Group Organisation The Board of Directors meets nine times a year, focusing both on strategic issues and operational Relations with Shareholders and financial performance.
There is also a defined policy on Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
matters reserved strictly for the Board.
The Regional Managing The majority of contact between the Board and shareholders Director, supported by a Regional Finance Director, of each of is through the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial our four regions is accountable for establishing and monitoring Officer.
They make themselves available, where possible, to meet internal controls within our respective regions.
with shareholders and analysts at their request.
During 2015 Annual Business Plan The Board reviews the Groups the Executive Directors visited 10 cities on roadshows across strategy and approves an annual Group budget.
Performance the United Kingdom, Europe and North America.
They also held is then monitored by the Board through the review of monthly investor conferences and equity sales teams briefings, as well reports showing comparisons of results against budget, as over 121 investor meetings.
In addition, in September, the quarterly forecasts and the prior year, with explanations Company undertook an Investor Relations event showcasing the provided for significant variances.
This event was attended by a majority of the Companys coverage analysts.
Policies and Procedures Policies and procedures are documented over both financial controls and non-quantifiable The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders areas such as the Groups whistleblowing policy and its policy and is also available on the Companys website www.
relating to anti-bribery and corruption, gifts and hospitality.
The website contains up-to-date information on the Groups Risk Management The Board has established a framework activities, published financial results and the presentations used for identifying and managing risk, both at a strategic and for briefings and investor meetings held during the year.
An overview of this framework and a summary available to download.
of the principal risks identified, together with mitigating actions, The Annual General Meeting is an additional opportunity for all can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 37 to 39.
Board members to meet with shareholders and investors and give Internal Audit The Group Internal Audit function examines them the opportunity to ask questions.
Final voting results are business process controls throughout the Group on a risk published through a Regulatory Information Service and on the basis and reports the findings to the Executive Board and Audit Companys website following the Meeting.
Agreed actions are monitored and reported to the Audit Committee.
Conflicts Confirmations from Executive Management The The Company has implemented robust procedures in line with Managing Director and Finance Director of our operations in the Companies Act 2006, requiring Directors to seek appropriate each country formally certify twice a year whether the business authorisation from the Board prior to entering into any outside has adhered to the system of internal control during the period, business interests which have or could have a direct or indirect including compliance with Group policies.
The statement also interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the Groups interests.
requires the reporting of any significant control issues that These procedures have operated effectively throughout the year have emerged including suspected or reported frauds so that under review.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for areas of Group concern can be identified and investigated as reviewing possible conflicts of interest.
These confirmations and supporting controls selfto the Board as to whether a conflict should be authorised and the assessment questionnaires are reviewed by the Internal Audit terms and conditions on which any such authorisation should be function and a summary of findings is provided to the Audit given by the Board.
Only Directors without an interest in the matter Committee for review.
being considered will be involved in the decision and each Director In accordance with the requirements of the Code and the must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will promote the recommendations of the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management success of the Group.
All Directors are aware of their continuing and Related Financial and Business Reporting, the Board has obligation to report any new interests, or changes in existing reviewed and agreed its approach to risk and its risk appetite interests, that might amount to a possible conflict of interest in when considering its strategy and the management of its risks.
order that these may be considered by the Board and appropriate It has also considered its longer term viability.
Details on the Boards authorisation given.
