Audit committee report the year.
With respect to risk management, To report to the board on its proceedings, Chairmans introduction the committee has discussed this with senior identifying any matters in respect management and was satisfied with the of which it considers that action or Dear fellow shareholders, process and risks identified.
It was also improvement is needed and make satisfied that there was a high level of recommendations as to the steps I am pleased to present my first report assurance provided by the internal auditors, to be taken: as chairman of the audit committee KPMG Audit PLC KPMG, the external the committee after taking over the review conducted by  To monitor the integrity of the financial chairmanship on 18 June 2014 following LLP PwC at the half year and their full year statements of the Company and ensure the publication of the audited preliminary audit, together with the input of the Groups that the interests of shareholders are results for the year ended 30 April 2014. tax advisors, Deloitte.
In this year Deloitte properly protected in relation to financial I would like to thank my predecessor, have also provided services around reporting and internal controls: David Maloney, for his services as integration, IT and finance transformation.
committee chair from IPO in 2005.
The committee is satisfied that the Annual To keep under review the effectiveness Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, of the Companys internal controls and The report details the activities of the provide a fair, balanced and understandable risk management systems: committee during the year ended assessment of the Companys position at 30 April 2015.
30 April 2015 and the information necessary To review the Companys procedures for shareholders to assess the Companys for preventing and detecting fraud, In this report I have detailed how the performance, business model and strategy.
the Companys systems and controls for committee has discharged its responsibilities the prevention of bribery, the adequacy in relation to the three areas highlighted and effectiveness of the Companys in the 2012 Corporate Governance Committee responsibilities anti money laundering systems and Code namely: The committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys arrangements for its the Groups annual accounts and interim employees to raise concerns about Addressing significant financial statement reports prior to submission to the full board possible wrongdoing in financial reporting issues: for approval.
The committee also monitors reporting or other matters: the Groups accounting policies, internal Assessing external audit effectiveness: financial control systems and financial To monitor and review the need for, and reporting procedures.
The committee and the effectiveness of, the Companys provides a forum through which the internal audit function in the context Appointing the external auditors and Groups external and internal auditors and of the Companys overall risk safeguards on non-audit services.
external tax advisors report to the board.
management system: The auditors are invited to attend meetings The Company will adopt the 2014 of the committee and have the opportunity To report to the board as to whether Corporate Governance Code from the to meet privately with committee members the Annual Report and Accounts, next financial year.
in the absence of executive management.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced The committee oversees the relationship and understandable: and with the external auditors, including Composition of the committee the independence and objectivity of The committee was chaired during the To oversee the relationship with the auditors taking into account UK year by David Maloney until 18 June 2014 the Companys auditors, ensuring professional and regulatory requirements and then by myself, with other independent the independence and objectivity and the relationship with the audit firm non-executive directors, Karen Slatford, of the auditors, considering audit as a whole and the consideration of audit Tom Skelton and Tom Virden being members fees and fees for non-audit work fees and fees for non-audit work.
By virtue of my former and making recommendations to the committees terms of reference include executive and current non-executive board in relation to the appointment, a process for employees of the Company responsibilities full details of which are reappointment and removal of to raise, in confidence, concerns about set out on page 36 the board considers the Companys external auditor.
possible impropriety in matters of financial that I have recent and relevant financial reporting or other matters.
All members of the committee The audit committees terms of reference are independent.
Executive directors attend can be found on the Companys website at The written terms of reference of the the meetings and other directors are www.
committee are reviewed annually and no welcome to attend if they wish.
changes were thought necessary this year.
The committee is satisfied that the terms of Following the annual cycle of work of the reference enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
audit committee, the committee concluded The terms of reference include, among other that sound risk management and internal things, the following responsibilities: control systems had been maintained during Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 42 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information In carrying this out, the committee Considered and agreed the annual What the committee did during considered the work and recommendations internal audit plan and reviewed reports the year ended 30 April 2015 of the Group Finance Team, executive of the work done by the internal auditors The committee met five times during the management and their own understanding in respect of those plans: financial year and all four current members of the business.
In addition, the committee of the committee attended each meeting.
received reports from the external auditors Considered the review of material In addition to standing items on the agenda, setting out their view on the accounting business risks, including reviewing the committee: treatments and judgments included in the internal control processes used to financial statements.
The external auditors identify and monitor principal risks Reviewed the interim and year end reports are based on a full audit of the and uncertainties: results and preliminary announcements: annual financial statements and a review of the interim financial statements.
Reviewed the bank loan refinancing as Received and considered, as part of the a result of the acquisition of TAG and review of interim and annual financial supported managements proposal to The chairman of the committee has regular statements, reports from the external the board: contact outside the formal meetings with auditor in respect of the auditors review the partners responsible for external and of the interim results, the audit plan for Reviewed the proposal from PwC internal audit and tax advice.
the year and the results of the annual for the audit of the Enlarged Group, audit.
These reports included the scope Deloittes proposal to be tax advisor Significant issues considered of the interim review and annual audit, to the Enlarged Group and KPMGs the approach to be adopted by the in relation to the financial proposal to be Internal Auditors to auditors to address and conclude upon statements the Enlarged Group and agreed each key estimates and other key audit areas, The significant issues considered by the of their proposed fees: the basis on which the auditors assess committee were as follows: materiality, the terms of engagement for Reviewed and approved the proposal the auditors and an on-going assessment Revenue recognition from the Chief Financial Officer for the of the impact of future accounting The Group has a detailed policy on revenue organization of the Enlarged Groups developments for the Group: recognition for each category of revenue: finance organization: Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and Considered the Annual Report and Consultancy.
This includes the application Reviewed and approved the governance Accounts in the context of being fair, of rules relating to the allocation of fair around the integration planning for the balanced and understandable and values between these categories in Enlarged Group and the appointment reviewed the content of a paper accordance with the policy and the timing of Deloitte to assist in that program prepared by management with regard of their recognition.
It also identifies the of work: to this principle in relation to the 2015 different types of commercial contracts Annual Report and Accounts.
This that the Group now enters into as a result Reviewed the effectiveness of the provided us with the supporting detail of the acquisition of TAG and confirmation Groups whistleblowing policy: to ensure that we were in a position that the revenue recognition is in line with to report to the board that the 2015 IFRS.
As is the case with many technology Reviewed reports provided by the Annual Report and Accounts when companies the profile of sales is weighted Groups tax department regarding the taken as a whole were fair, balanced to the end of the financial quarter.
reporting of tax within the financial and understandable.
We reached the Other than in the case of Subscription, statements and other key tax matters: conclusion on the basis that the Maintenance and Consultancy revenue description of the business agrees with the impact on recognized revenue is also Reviewed and approved an updated our own understanding, the risks reflect weighted to the end of each financial Treasury policy, following the acquisition the issues that concern us, appropriate quarter.
This can lead to the risk of of TAG: weight has been given to the good misstatement of revenues from one and bad news, the discussion of period to the next.
IFRS 15 will come into Reviewed the committees composition performance properly reflects the effect from January 2017 pending EU and confirmed that there is sufficient performance of the year and there endorsement and management are expertise and resource for us to fulfil is a clear and well-articulated link currently assessing the implications of our responsibilities effectively: and between all areas of disclosure: this standard on future revenue recognition.
We note that the IASB has published an Carried out an annual review of the Considered the effectiveness and exposure draft to propose the deferral of the committees performance.
independence of the external audit and effective date of IFRS 15 to 1 January 2018. recommended to the board the reappointment of PwC as external auditors: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Audit committee report continued Valuation of TAG intangible assets The committee received a paper from The committee received a paper from Management asked Deloitte to assist in management on revenue recognition management and following discussions with the tax advisors, Deloitte, and the external valuing the purchased intangible assets and methodology and the appropriateness of auditors concluded that the Groups tax the goodwill arising from the acquisition of allocation of fair values between Licence, provisions are appropriate.
The intangible assets were valued at Maintenance, Subscription and Consulting as $1,127.6m and goodwill at $2,113.4m.
presented in the financial statements, which Capitalization of development costs concluded that no change to the allocation The costs incurred on development The committee received a report from both of fair values was necessary.
The committee projects relating to developing new management and Deloitte and considered also considered the controls that management computer software programs and significant the valuation methods that were applied has in place to ensure that the fair value enhancement of existing computer software by management and discussed these allocation of revenue is appropriate.
The programs are recognized as intangible assets both with management, Deloitte and the external auditors reported that they tested when it is probable that the project will be external auditors and concluded that the in detail all larger deals above a certain a success, considering its commercial and valuation methods and the carrying value threshold and had not identified any technological feasibility, and costs can be of purchased intangibles and goodwill exceptions.
They had also tested a sample of measured reliably.
The costs are written were reasonable.
transactions from the remaining population off to the consolidated statement of and the operation of certain key controls over comprehensive income over a period of Restructuring fair value allocation and found these to be three years from the point that the product Following the acquisition of TAG the Group operating satisfactorily at the year end.
This results in a commenced a restructuring program significant amount of costs being capitalized to improve the operational efficiency of A close relationship between revenue each year although the overall impact on the Group and help improve revenue.
At recognition and cash collection is a good the consolidated statement of comprehensive 30April 2015, management has made some indicator of solid revenue recognition policies income is currently small as the capitalization estimates of the potential severance costs and the Group has a very satisfactory cash of cost in the year is similar to the amortization for certain key individuals who were advised conversion ratio, low level of days sales of previously capitalized costs.
The net book that their jobs have become redundant and outstanding and bad debt provision.
value of development costs at the end of also made estimates of the costs of exiting the year was $31.4m 2014: $31.5m.
On the basis of the above the committee concluded that the Groups revenue The committee considered the method The committee received a report from recognition was appropriate.
of testing for potential impairment used management and discussed the assumptions by management and the reasonableness with both management and the external Tax provisions of the assumptions applied.
The committee auditors and concluded that the estimates As set out on page 22, the Group had addressed this through consideration of made by management were reasonable a net tax refund in the year and a tax a report from management covering these and appropriate.
credit in the consolidated statement of areas and detailing both the capitalization comprehensive income.
The Group also and amortization processes applied and the has a number of tax provisions and deferred Assessment of effectiveness new expenditure that was capitalized.
It also tax assets that are subject to a degree of external audit looked at the levels that were capitalized of judgment in determining the value The committee reviewed the performance in relation to Licence revenue generated in the financial statements.
of the external auditors taking into account and capitalized costs as a percentage of the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and the total research and development costs The committee ensures that the internal amendments to it, input from management, of the Group in the year and also in relation tax team has sufficient resources to address responses to questions from the committee to prior years.
The committee further these areas and received detailed updates and audit findings reported to the committee.
discussed this with the external auditors on the tax provisions included in the and concluded that the assumptions made Annual and Interim Reports.
The Group As part of this process the committee by management were reasonable and the predominantly uses Deloitte as tax advisors reviewed the feedback from the Public carrying value of capitalized development to the Group and the lead partner attends Report on the Audit Quality Inspection of costs was appropriate.
committee meetings so that the committee  LLP, issued by the has adequate opportunity to discuss and Financial Reporting Council FRC in May 2015.
Currently the development costs incurred test the assumptions reflected in the on the products acquired from TAG are not financial statements.
Based on this information the committee being capitalized since they do not meet all concluded that the external audit process the required criteria, but in the next financial During the year Deloitte provided was operating effectively and PwC year it is expected that for some product additional assistance to the internal tax continued to prove effective in their developments these criteria will be met.
team with regards to the preparation of role as external auditor.
the consolidated tax provisions, including assistance with transitioning the TAG tax provisioning to IFRS.
Deloitte also advised on a number of integration related projects.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 44 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information year ended 30 April 2013 and, therefore, Independence and objectivity Effective internal control partner rotation is due in the year ended of the external auditors and risk management 30April 2018.
The current external auditors, The committee has developed a policy The board is ultimately responsible for PwC, have been auditors since IPO in 2005. designed to ensure that the auditors establishing and monitoring internal The committee is confident that the objectivity and independence is not control systems throughout the Group effectiveness and independence of the compromised by it undertaking and reviewing their effectiveness.
It carries external auditors is not impaired in any way.
out a review, at least annually, covering There are no contractual restrictions on the all material controls including financial, choice of external auditors and therefore a The current external auditors, PwC, have operational and compliance controls resolution proposing the reappointment of been auditors since Micro Focus became and risk management systems.
PwC as external auditors will be put to the a UK listed company in 2005 at which time shareholders at the 2015 Annual General they were also the tax advisors to the Group.
It recognizes that rigorous systems of Meeting.
The committee will continue to In 2008 Micro Focus appointed Deloitte as internal control are critical to the Groups assess the effectiveness and independence principal tax advisors for the Group and they achievement of its business objectives, of the external auditors.
In doing so, the remain in that position today.
that those systems are designed to manage committee will consider a formal tender rather than eliminate risk and that they process in accordance with the provisions The committee approves all non-audit work can only provide reasonable and not of the UK Corporate Governance Code greater than 25,000 commissioned from absolute assurance against material 2012 and the European Commission the external auditors.
During the year the misstatement or loss.
We clarified with fees paid to the auditor were $3,303,000 Department of Business Innovation & 2014: $786,000 for audit services and There is an on-going internal process Skills that the latest date that the external $5,059,000 2014: $555,000 for other for identifying, evaluating and managing audit needs to go out to tender is for the non-audit services.
The majority of the other the significant risks faced by the Group accounting period beginning on or after non-audit services provided by the auditors in association with the work performed 17 June 2016. were in respect of their role as Reporting by the outsourced internal audit function.
Accountant in connection with the This process has been in place throughout Internal audit Prospectus issued for the acquisition of the year and up to the date of approval of An outsourced internal audit function TAG, the Return of Value and financial due the report and accounts and it is regularly continues to be provided by KPMG.
The diligence and regulatory compliance work reviewed by the board and accords with Groups Chief Financial Officer provides on the acquisition of TAG.
The committee the Turnbull Guidance.
oversight and co-ordination of internal concluded that it was in the interests of audit.
In order to ensure independence, the Group to use the auditors for this work As part of the process that the Group has internal audit has a direct reporting line as they were considered to be best placed in place to review the effectiveness of the to the audit committee and its chairman.
Auditor objectivity internal control system, there are procedures was safeguarded by the committee designed to capture and evaluate failings The committee monitored and reviewed considering several factors: the standing and weaknesses and, in the case of those the scope and results of the internal and experience of the external audit categorized by the board as significant, auditors activities as well as its effectiveness partner: the nature and level of services procedures exist to ensure that necessary during the year.
The annual internal audit provided by the external auditors and action is taken to remedy any such failings.
plan is approved by the committee at the confirmation from the external auditors The review covers all material controls, beginning of the financial year, with any that they have complied with relevant including financial, operational and subsequent changes to the plan requiring UK independence standards and fully compliance controls.
The nature and scope considered any threats and safeguards of the internal auditors work is reviewed in the performance of non-audit work.
The committee reports on a regular and approved and the results of the audits basis to the board on the Groups internal are assessed alongside managements financial control procedures and makes External audit appointment responses.
Issues with the audit reports recommendations to the board in this area.
The committee reviews and makes which are graded as needing improvement recommendations with regard to the are considered in detail by the committee The external auditors provide a reappointment of the external auditors.
along with the appropriateness of mitigation supplementary, independent and In making these recommendations, the plans to resolve the issues identified.
autonomous perspective on those areas committee considers auditor effectiveness of the internal control system which and independence, partner rotation and any At each meeting, the committee received they assess in the course of their work.
other factors that may impact the external reports from KPMG, in order to ascertain Their findings are regularly reported auditors reappointment.
The external progress in completing the internal audit to both the committee and the board.
auditors are required to rotate the audit plan and to review results of the audits.
The most recent change in audit partner happened in the Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Audit committee report continued There have been no significant changes in The key elements of the control system are: Financial reporting the Companys internal control over financial In addition to the general internal controls reporting during the year under review that The Group operates a structured, and risk management processes described have materially affected, or are reasonably objectives-driven approach to fulfil its above, the Group also has specific internal likely to materially affect, the Companys core purpose and goals in respect of controls and risk management systems control over financial reporting.
sustained profitability and growth: to govern the financial reporting process: The board, with advice from the committee, Systems and procedures are in place There are Group policies covering what is satisfied that an effective system of for all major transaction types with is reported monthly to the board and internal control and risk management appropriate authorization controls: the executive committee.
The Groups processes are in place which enable the financial reporting system has been guided by the requirement to ensure Company to identify, evaluate and manage All contracts are reviewed.
The level consistency and visibility of management keys risks and which accord with the of review depends on the size and information to enable the board and the Turnbull guidance on internal control complexity of the contracts and executive team to review the Groups updated by the FRC in 2005.
There are formal limits worldwide operations effectively: processes have been in place since the above which the review level is escalated: start of the financial year up to the date Cash flow forecasts are produced of approval of the accounts.
Further details Reconciliations are performed on a monthly by all operations.
These are of the risks faced by the Group are set timely basis for all major accounts: and reviewed by the Group treasury function out on pages 26 to 28. to ensure effective cash management Research and development and by the Group: capital expenditure programs Whistleblowing are subject to formal review and The Group has a whistleblowing policy Management representations covering monitoring procedures.
which forms part of the Groups Worldwide compliance with Group policies and Code of Conduct and Business Ethics.
This the accuracy of financial information The board recognizes the need to allows employees to raise issues of concern are collected on a quarterly basis: understand and control the variety of in relation to dishonesty or malpractice on risks to which the Group is exposed.
The committee All the major trading entities completed During the year, in order to address this receives regular reports as to whether any a self-assessment on the effectiveness on behalf of the board, the committee matters have been raised within the Group of their internal control environment: oversaw the executive managements risk and any applicable details.
The executive The consolidation process entails the management took responsibility for regular Accountability combining and adjusting of financial evaluation of generic and specific risks The board is responsible for the preparation information contained in the individual within the business and the implementation of the Annual Report and Accounts which, financial statements of Micro Focus of mitigation plans to address them.
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and International plc and its subsidiary understandable and provide the information undertakings in order to prepare Risks are assessed with reference to necessary for shareholders to assess the consolidated financial statements that the achievement of the Groups business Companys performance, business model present financial information for the objectives and according to current market and strategy.
As set out in the Directors Group as a single economic entity.
The continuous report, the directors consider that the Note 1, Group accounting policies, monitoring of strategic and operational Companys business is a going concern.
sets out the basis of preparation risks is the responsibility of the board and and consolidation, including the executive management respectively.
The elimination of inter-company risk process has been in place for the year transactions, balances and unrealized under review and is up to date at the time gains between Group companies: of this report.
Richard Atkins Chairman, Audit committee Financial information from subsidiaries The committee considers any significant 7 July 2015 is reviewed for accuracy by internal control matters raised in reports from review and externally audited where management and by the internal and external required: and auditors.
It then reports its findings to the board.
Where weaknesses are identified, The consolidated financial statements the committee requires appropriate action are completed in accordance with to be taken by management and may EU endorsed International Financial request internal audit to perform a specific Reporting Standards, IFRS Interpretations review into these areas if required.
Committee, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 46
