ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Nomination Committee Report company, The Zygos Partnership.
Zygos has no connection with the Company other than the provision of this service.
A detailed candidate profile is recommended by the Committee to the Board.
If approved, a search and selection process based on that profile is undertaken.
Candidates are identified and selected on merit against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
A shortlist of candidates is then interviewed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief David Lowden Executive Officer and members of the Committee.
Thereafter a Chairman recommendation of appointment is made to the Board.
Geographic and gender diversity is important both at Board level Purpose and at every other level in the business.
It therefore remains the Committees policy to seek diversity of experience, capability, The Nomination Committee is responsible for ensuring that the geography and gender in order to create a talented highCompany has the executive and non-executive Board leadership performing Board.
Detail of diversity below Board level can be it requires, both now and for the future.
found in the Strategic Report on pages 22 and 25.
Membership Activities During the Year During the year under review the members of the Committee were During 2015 the Committee met on six occasions.
Details of Robin Buchanan, who was Chairman of the Committee, Simon the members attendance at meetings of the Committee can Boddie, Patrick fide Smedt, Danuta Gray, David Lowden and be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 58.
Patrick fide Smedt became a Committee continues to focus on succession planning both for member of the Committee on 1 August 2015 on his appointment senior management and the Board.
The Committee undertook the as a Director of the Company.
All other members served selection of a new Non-Executive Director which resulted in the throughout the year.
On 31 December 2015 Robin Buchanan appointment of Patrick fide Smedt on 1 August 2015. ceased to be a member, and Chairman, of the Committee when he resigned as a Director of the Company.
On the same date The Committee also considered the extension of the term of David Lowden was appointed Chairman of the Committee on his appointment for each of David Lowden and Simon Boddie whose appointment as Chairman of the Company.
During the year under respective letters of appointment had reached the end of their review Robin Buchanans other significant commitments were initial three-year term in August and September respectively.
non-executive director of each of Schroders plc and Lyondell Neither David nor Simon took part in discussions about the Basell Industries NV, and senior adviser to Bain & Company.
extension of their own term.
The Committee extended both letters Details of David Lowdens other significant commitments can be of appointment, each for a further three year period.
Further, in October 2015 Robin Buchanan informed the Board Only members of the Committee are entitled to attend meetings.
of his intention to step down from the Board at a date to be Other individuals, such as the Chief Executive Officer, the Group determined.
He subsequently resigned as Chairman of the Human Resources Director and external advisers, may attend Board on 31 December 2015.
The process for the selection of meetings by invitation when appropriate and necessary.
a chairman to succeed Robin Buchanan on his retirement was conducted by the Committee, led by Baroness Ruby  Smith, Senior Independent Director.
Ruby was assisted by the independent executive search company, The Zygos Partnership.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Following a thorough process during which the Nomination Assess and nominate members to the Board: Committee considered both internal and external candidates, Maintain the right mix of character, skills and experience on the David Lowden was unanimously recommended to the Board Board and its Committees: as the Companys next Chairman.
The Board approved the appointment with effect from 31 December 2015.
Neither David Make recommendations to the Board on development and Lowden nor Robin Buchanan took part in the selection process.
succession plans for members of the Board and senior The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of the management: Board evaluation process performed during the year under review.
Approve job descriptions and written terms of appointment for Details of the evaluation process can be found in the Corporate Directors: and Governance Report on page 59. Review the independence of Non-Executive Directors, taking into account their other directorships.
Plan for 2016 The Committee follows formal and transparent procedures In 2016 the Committee will continue to review the size of the for appointing Directors and is assisted in its search for new Board, its mix of skills and experience, and succession plans for non-executive directors by an independent executive search both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
