ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Audit Committee Report Simon Boddie Committee Chairman Purpose The Audit Committee is the guardian of the integrity of the During the year under review the Committee met on seven Companys financial statements and external reporting of occasions.
Details of the members attendance at the meetings of performance.
It also has the responsibility for ensuring that the the Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance Report necessary internal controls and risk management systems are in on page 58.
Set out in the table below is a summary of the main place and effective.
activities of the Committee during 2015.
Key issues covered by the Committee are reported to the Board.
Membership Financial Reporting During the year under review the members of the Committee were Simon Boddie, who was the Chairman of the Committee, In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested Patrick fide Smedt, Danuta Gray, David Lowden and Baroness parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and Ruby McGregor-Smith.
All served throughout the year except understandable assessment of the Groups position and Patrick fide Smedt who was appointed a member of the prospects, providing necessary information for shareholders Committee on 1 August 2015 on his appointment as a Director to assess the Companys business model, strategy and of the Company.
David Lowden ceased to be a member of the performance.
The Company has an established process for Committee on his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 31 reviewing the annual report and accounts to ensure it is fair, December 2015.
Only members of the Committee are entitled balanced and understandable.
This was used again this year.
Other individuals, such as the Chairman of included a thorough understanding of the regulatory requirements the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, for the annual report and accounts: a process to determine the the Company Secretary, the Director of Internal Audit and the accuracy, consistency and clarity of the data and language: and external audit partner are regularly invited to attend meetings as a detailed review by all appropriate parties including external appropriate and necessary.
The Committee can invite others to advisers.
A checklist of all the elements of the process was attend as appropriate.
completed to document the process and cascaded sign-off implemented through the Groups management structure The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Committee has to provide assurance to the Committee that the appropriate the current and relevant financial and accounting experience procedures had been undertaken by all Group companies.
required by the provisions of the Code.
Other members of the The Committee has reviewed the Companys 2015 Annual Report Committee also have recent and relevant financial experience and Accounts.
It provided comments which were incorporated and have a sufficiently wide range of business experience and into the Annual Report and Accounts and has advised the Board expertise such that the Committee can effectively fulfil its role.
that in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts taken as The relevant qualifications and experience of the Committee a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the members are shown in their biographies on pages 51 to 54. information necessary to assess the Companys performance, The Committee met with the external auditor during the year business model and strategy.
without the presence of management in order to provide an opportunity for confidential discussion.
The Director of Internal Audit and the external auditor have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee throughout the year.
62 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Audit Committee Report Main Activities of Audit Committee During 2015 January August Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Quarter 4 trading update Draft interim report Risk and Internal Control March Internal audit update Review of Financial Statements Risk management update Draft preliminary announcement and 2014 Annual Report Review of the requirements to incorporate a viability and Accounts statement in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts External auditors year-end report External Auditor Going concern analysis External auditors 2014 management letter Review of non-audit fees External auditors interim review Fair, balanced and understandable review Assessment of risk of material misstatement Management letter of representation Scope of the full year audit Risk and Internal Control Interim review management letter of representation Ratification of principal risks Review of external auditor independence and objectivity Internal audit update External auditor partner rotation Compliance Compliance Meeting with external auditor without Executive Directors Meeting with external auditor without Executive Directors External Auditor October External auditor satisfaction survey Review of Financial Statements Reappointment of external auditor Quarter 3 trading update December April Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Review of 2015 Annual Report and Accounts process Quarter 1 trading update Risk and Internal Control July Internal audit update Approval of internal audit plan for 2016 Review of Financial Statements Confirmation of principal risks Quarter 2 trading update Review of the approach to incorporate a viability statement in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts External Auditor Updated assessment of risk of material misstatement Updated scope of the full year audit Approval of the external auditors letter of engagement Approval of the external auditors fees Review of non-audit fees policy Compliance Year end legislative and procedural matters Regulatory update 63 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Significant Accounting Issues and Areas of Judgment The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgment that may materially impact reported results as well as the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting standards and the relevant requirements around financial and governance reporting.
Details on accounting policies can be found on pages 98 to 101.
The significant issues and areas of judgment considered by the Committee during the year and how these were addressed were as follows: Significant issue How the Committee addressed the issue Revenue recognition Context: Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary placements, with particular focus on period end cut off and appropriate accounting treatment in accordance with IFRS and Group accounting policies.
Revenue from permanent placements is derived from both retained assignments income recognised on completion of defined stages of work and nonretained assignments income recognised at the date an offer is accepted by a candidate and where a start date has been determined.
Revenue from temporary placements, which represents amounts billed for the services of temporary staff, including the salary cost of these staff, is recognised when the service has been provided.
Actions taken: The Committee reviews and discusses revenue recognition with management, the internal audit team and the external auditor.
Conclusions and rationale: The Committee concluded that the approach to revenue recognition was consistent with the policies and that any judgments made were appropriate.
Accounting for Page Recruitment Context: Accounting for the Page Recruitment System and related applications relating System to the intangible assets, with particular focus on appropriate cost capitalisation, carrying value and useful economic life and its revision.
Actions taken: The Committee reviews the cost capitalisation and carrying value twice a year to ensure that the judgments made by the Company remain appropriate.
The Group extended the useful life of specific components of the PRS intangible asset during the year to align the useful life of the system with the timing of the benefit.
Conclusion and rationale: The Committee concluded that the appropriate costs have been capitalised and the carrying value is fairly stated.
Deferred tax and assets and Context: Deferred tax assets and transfer pricing provisions with particular reference to their transfer pricing provisions recoverability and adequacy.
With c. 75% of its operations in overseas territories, the Group is subject to significant international tax legislation which impacts the determination of the transfer pricing provision.
Actions taken: The Committee reviews this area on a six monthly basis to ensure transfer pricing provisions remain appropriate and that deferred tax assets are properly recognised and remain recoverable.
Conclusions and rationale: The Committee agreed with managements assessment of the deferred tax assets and provisions held around transfer pricing.
The Committee reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys External Auditor, the methodology used to test the assumptions and estimates made by management in each of these areas.
64 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Audit Committee Report The objectivity and independence of the external auditor is External Auditors Independence safeguarded by: and Effectiveness Obtaining assurances from the external auditor that adequate policies and procedures exist within its firm to ensure that The Committee monitors the objectivity, independence and the firm and staff are independent of the Group by reason effectiveness of the external auditor.
The Company is mindful of of family, finance, employment, investment and business the provisions of the Code, best practice, the Competition and relationship other than in the normal course of business : Market Authority Audit Order and EU audit legislation as regards audit firm rotation and the provision of non-audit services.
The Enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is proposed Committee considered both matters in 2014 and 2015. that a former employee of the external auditor be employed by the Group in a senior management position or at Board level: Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys current external auditor, were Monitoring the external auditors compliance with applicable appointed in 2011 following a tender process.
In accordance UK ethical guidance on the rotation of audit partners: and with professional standards, Ernst & Young LLP operate a policy of rotating the Audit Partner every five years.
The current Audit Enforcing a policy concerning the provision of non-audit Partner, Iain Wilkie, who has served as the Companys Audit services by the external auditor.
Partner since the appointment Ernst & Young LLP, a period of The Committee considers the annual appointment of the four years and six months, will step down after the completion of auditor by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be a the 2015 year end audit.
A new Audit Partner will be appointed for fundamental safeguard.
The performance and effectiveness of the auditor is also reviewed The Committee considered and approved a formal policy for annually by the Committee.
This covers qualification, expertise, the tender of the external audit in 2014.
This provided that the resources and reappointment as well as assurance that there Company will retender the external audit at least every ten years are no issues which could adversely affect the external auditors and it will change the external auditor at least every 20 years.
This independence and objectivity taking into account the relevant policy remains unchanged.
In this respect the Committee reviewed the: The Committee reviewed its policy on the use of the external Robustness of the external auditors plan and its identification auditor for non-audit services again in 2015 and determined of key risks: that the policy should remain unchanged.
This policy places a Fulfilment of the agreed external audit plan and any variations prohibition on using the external auditor for: from the plan: Tax services such as the preparation of tax forms: payroll tax: Robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in support regarding tax inspections unless support is required handling key accounting and audit judgments: by law: the calculation of direct and indirect tax and deferred Content of reports provided to the Committee by the external tax: and the provision of tax advice except for employee global auditor including reporting on internal control: and mobility advice : Feedback from management which is ascertained from staff Services related to the Groups internal audit function: and surveys completed by staff involved in the audit process.
The design and implementation of internal control or risk management procedures related to the preparation Following a full evaluation of the external auditor at the end of and or control of financial information or the design and the 2015 audit, the Committee recommended to the Board the implementation of financial information technology systems.
reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company Since the approval of the new policy in 2014 the external auditor at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
has not been given new instructions for such matters and, where such activities were previously performed by the external auditor, Internal Control and Risk Management arrangements have been made to ensure they cease this activity by the end of December 2016.
The Boards responsibilities for and their report on risk management and the systems of internal control and their The Committee considers that in 2015 it has complied with the effectiveness are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on Competition and Market Authority Audit Order.
Further, during the year under review, the Committee negotiated On behalf of the Board the Committee reviewed the Groups risk the terms of the external auditors engagement letter, discussed assessment procedures for identifying its principal risks and its and agreed the scope of the year end audit and approved the longer term viability.
The risk assessment takes account of all audit fee.
Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during risks, including environmental, social and governance matters, 2015 in respect of non-audit services are shown on page 104. inherent in the strategy of the business and its plan.
These procedures include regular reports to the Committee from the Director of Internal Audit on the performance of the system of internal control and on its effectiveness in managing material risks and identifying any control failings or weaknesses.
65 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The Committee also reviews the Groups risk management Fraud process annually, with the outcome being reported to the Board.
The Committee reviews the procedures for the prevention and This, together with regular updates to the Board on material risks, detection of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must allows the Board to make the assessment on the systems of be reported to the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of internal control and the residual risk for the purpose of making Internal Audit and investigated by operational management and its public statement.
The risk process, together with the key Internal Audit.
The outcome of any investigation is reported to risks and their indicators, have been identified and mitigating the Committee.
A register of all suspected fraudulent activity and actions are described in the Strategic Report on pages 35 to the outcome of any investigation is kept and is circulated to the 39.
Key performance indicators and management incentives are Committee on a regular basis.
During the year in question, no highlighted for the main financial, strategic and people risks in the frauds of a material nature were reported.
Where weaknesses have been identified in the internal control Anti-Bribery and Corruption and system for the mitigation of risks to an acceptable level, plans to strengthen the control system are put in place.
Action plans in this Business Ethics respect are regularly monitored until complete.
During the period The Company has a Code of Conduct which can be found on our under review there were no control failings or weaknesses that website www.
This sets out the standards of behaviour resulted in unforeseen material losses.
by which all employees of the Group are bound and is based on the Companys commitment to acting professionally, fairly and Internal Audit Activities with integrity.
During the year under review the Committee monitored and The Group maintains a zero tolerance approach against reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
It has an established anti-bribery and corruption policy, Groups Internal Audit function comprises a Director of Internal which includes guidance on the giving and receiving of gifts and Audit and a team of internal auditors.
A new Director of Internal hospitality.
This policy applies throughout the Group.
The policy Audit was appointed during 2014 which brought an increased and the training of employees was reviewed and updated during breadth and depth of risk and internal control experience to 2014.
It was implemented by means of policy guidelines and the function.
The Director of Internal Audit reports to the Chief the training of Regional Finance Directors who then cascaded Financial Officer on a day-to-day basis, but also has a reporting the training and guidelines to all relevant employees within each line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as direct operating unit.
access to the Committee and the Board.
This ensures there is All managers and all staff in risk areas across the Group opportunity for frank and open dialogue.
The scope of work for are required to undertake training by means of review and the Internal Audit function is agreed with the Committee annually presentation of standard Group prepared training material.
A gifts with the findings from internal audits being reported to the and entertainments register is maintained to ensure transparency.
Executive Board and the Audit Committee.
Businesses are visited A review of compliance with the policy is undertaken annually.
on a rotational risk-based approach to assess the effectiveness of The review undertaken in 2015 showed there was a good controls to mitigate risks to an acceptable level.
All major risks are understanding of the issue and no breaches were reported.
addressed in this process, including those around governance, environmental and social related matters.
Whistleblowing Actions to maintain and improve the effectiveness of the control environment are agreed with the Executive Board and are In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Committee monitored and reported to the Committee.
Risks are also is responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff regularly reviewed and required changes are made to the risk may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties profile and, where necessary, to the activity of Internal Audit.
All in financial reporting or other matters and ensuring that these changes to the Internal Audit plan are agreed with the Chairman concerns are investigated and escalated as appropriate.
This is of the Committee and reported to the Executive Board and promoted in all regions by the Internal Audit function and is run the Committee.
by an external third party and is available to all employees in the Group.
There were no whistleblowing incidents reported during the year under review.
Committee Evaluation The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of the Board evaluation process performed during the year under Simon Boddie review.
Details and the outcome of the evaluation process can be Chairman of the Audit Committee found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 59.
