ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Board of Directors Our business is led by our Board of Directors.
Biographical details of the Directors as at 9 March 2016 are as follows: David Lowden, Steve Ingham, Chairman Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Director August 2012 February 2001 Chairman 31 December 2015 Chief Executive Officer April 2006 Past Roles: David was a member of the Board of TNS plc, the Past Roles: Steve joined Michael Page in 1987 as a consultant marketing services business, from 1999 to 2009, becoming Chief with Michael Page Marketing and Sales.
He was responsible Executive Officer in 2006.
Before joining TNS plc David held senior for setting up the London Marketing and Sales business and financial positions in Asprey plc, A. C. Nielsen Corporation and was promoted to Operating Director in 1990.
He was appointed Federal Express Corporation.
Managing Director of Michael Page Marketing and Sales in 1994.
Subsequently Steve took additional responsibility for Michael Other Current Appointments: Pages Retail, Technology, Human Resources and Engineering Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration businesses.
He was promoted to the Board as Executive Committee, Berensden plc: Non-Executive Director and Chairman Director of UK Operations in February 2001 and subsequently of the Audit Committee, William Hill plc.
to Managing Director of UK Operations in May 2005.
Steve was appointed Chief Executive Officer in April 2006.
Board Committees: Nomination Chairman Other Current Appointments: Skills and Experience: Non-Executive Director, Debenhams plc.
Member Extensive experience in both general management and of the Corporate Partnership Board, Great Ormond Street financial management Hospital.
Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity Board Committees: None Strong strategic understanding Skills and Experience: Proven ability for delivering shareholder value More than 29 years service with the Group and recruitment Strong financial, marketing and commercial skills industry Ten years as a CEO of a public company, now FTSE 250, with Experienced non-executive in several sectors strong IR skills, delivering shareholder value Strong entrepreneurial and strategic skills having initiated and grown many businesses Extensive experience in business development and account management Significant international experience including the emerging markets of SE Asia, China, Latin America and India Leadership of a global people business having seen PageGroup grow from 200 to 5,800 employees Experience in other sectors and industries having worked on the Board of a major charity and retailer 51 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Kelvin Stagg, Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director Senior Independent Director Date of appointment: Date of appointment: June 2014 May 2007 Past Roles: Kelvin joined Michael Page International plc Past Roles: Ruby qualified as a Chartered Accountant in July 2006 as Group Financial Controller and Company with BDO Stoy Hayward.
In December 2002 Ruby joined Secretary.
He was appointed Acting Chief Financial Mitie Group plc as Group Finance Director and was Officer in October 2013.
He held the title of Company appointed Chief Operating Officer in September 2005 Secretary until December 2013.
In June 2014 Kelvin before being appointed Chief Executive in March 2007. was appointed Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to joining Other Current Appointments: the Group, Kelvin spent six years at Allied Domecq and Chief Executive, Mitie Group plc: Chairperson of the three years at Unilever in a variety of finance functions.
Womens Business Council: Non-Executive Director of He has significant international experience and has high the Department of Education.
levels of compliance, change management, large teams and systems experience, across almost every finance Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration discipline.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Skills and Experience: Other Current Appointments: None CEO, COO and CFO experience with a FTSE 250 Board Committees: None public company for over 13 years Strong strategic and commercial understanding Skills and Experience: Proven ability for delivering shareholder value More than nine years in the Group with a detailed knowledge of the Groups operations Extensive experience in customer services Extensive experience in finance, audit and risk Significant financial, audit and risk management management systems experience Significant international experience including roles in Ruby will cease to be a member of the Audit and the UK, Continental Europe and Asia Remuneration Committees from 23 May 2016 High levels of compliance, change management, large teams and systems experience, across almost every finance discipline Strong network of finance professionals 52 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Board of Directors Simon Boddie, Danuta Gray, Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Date of appointment: Date of appointment: September 2012 December 2013 Past Roles: Simon is a Chartered Accountant.
He was Group Past Roles: Danuta was Chairman of Telefonica O2 in Ireland until Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc from September 2005 December 2012, having previously been its Chief Executive from to September 2015.
Simon joined Electrocomponents plc from 2001 to 2010.
Prior to that Danuta was Senior Vice President for Diageo where he held a variety of senior finance positions over a BT Europe in Germany and during her career gained experience in 13 year career, latterly Finance Director of Key Markets.
sales, marketing, customer services and technology and in leading and changing large businesses.
She previously served for seven Board Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination, years on the Board of Irish Life and Permanent plc and was a Remuneration Director of Business in the Community Ireland and Aer Lingus plc.
Skills and Experience: Other Current Appointments: CFO of FTSE 250 public company for ten years Non-Executive Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman, Extensive experience in financial, audit and risk management Old Mutual plc: Non-Executive Director, Paddy Power plc: Nonsystems Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of Aldermore International operations and emerging markets experience Bank PLC: Member of the Defence Board, UK Ministry of Defence.
Strong strategic and commercial understanding Board Committees: Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Skills and Experience: Chairman and CEO experience Experienced non-executive in several sectors Extensive experience in general management Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Strong strategic understanding Extensive experience in sales, marketing, customer services and technology Leading and changing large businesses 53 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Patrick fide Smedt, Elaine Marriner, Independent Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Date of appointment: Date of appointment: August 2015 December 2013 Past Roles: Patrick spent 23 years at Microsoft during which time Past Roles: Prior to this appointment Elaine was Company he founded the Benelux subsidiaries, led the development of its Secretary and General Counsel of HMV Group plc.
Western European business and served as Chairman of Microsoft for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Since leaving Microsoft in 2006, Patrick has served on the boards of a number of European public and private companies.
He has deep knowledge of international markets and information technology, and experience as a non-executive in diverse industry sectors.
Other Current Appointments: Non-Executive Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman of Victrex plc: Senior Independent Director of KCOM Group plc: Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman of Morgan Sindall Group plc: Non-Executive Director of Kodak Alaris Holdings Ltd: Non-Executive Director of Nexinto GmbH.
Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: Extensive experience of technology and customer services Experienced non-executive in several sectors Extensive experience in general management Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Leading and changing large businesses 54 PB
