Board of directors Executive directors Kevin Loosemore, 56 Executive Chairman Kevin was previously non-executive Chairman of Morse and before that, he was Chief Executive of IBM UK plc, a non-executive director of Nationwide Building Limited.
Kevin was appointed non-executive Chairman Society and a non-executive director of the Big Food of the Company in 2005 and Executive Chairman in Group plc.
His most recent executive roles were as April 2011.
He has a degree in politics and economics Chief Operating Officer of Cable & Wireless plc, from Oxford University.
President of Motorola Europe, Middle East and Africa, Mike Phillips, 52 Chief Financial Officer Mike joined Micro Focus on 7 September 2010 and software and services business with sustainable was previously Chief Executive Officer at Morse plc, and profitable growth.
Earlier roles include seven following his initial role as Group Finance Director.
years corporate finance work at Smith & Williamson, Mike left Morse plc in July 2010 following the as well as two years at  where turnaround and successful corporate sale to 2e2 in he led the UK technology team, reporting to the global June 2010.
From 1998 to 2007, Mike was Group Finance Head of Corporate Finance for the Technology Sector.
Director at Microgen plc and played a lead role in the Mike began his career at Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co transformation of the company to an international now KPMG.
Non-executive directors Karen Slatford, 58 Senior independent non-executive director Karen is Chair of Volex plc, The Foundry, a leading before spending 20 years at Hewlett-Packard, where in special effects software company and non-executive 2000 she became Vice President and General Manager director of Intelliflo Ltd.
Prior to her current board Worldwide Sales & Marketing for the Business Customer responsibilities, she has held various roles at board Organization, responsible for sales of all Hewlettlevel since 2001 at a range of technology companies, Packards products, services and software to business including e-conomic international, Cambridge customers globally.
Karen holds a BA Honours degree Broadband Networks Ltd, Portwise AB, Via Networks, in European Studies from Bath University and a Diploma Inc. Compel Group plc, HAL Knowledge Systems in Marketing.
Karen began her career at ICL Richard Atkins, 63 Independent non-executive director Richard is currently a non-executive director of Aon of TripleArc plc, Easynet and 7city.
He has spent the UK Limited and Chairman of Acora Limited, Entanet majority of his career within the IT industry, most International Limited and Miles 33 Limited.
He was recently at IBM Global Services, where he held a previously a non-executive director at Compel plc, number of senior general management positions.
Morse plc, Global Crossing UK Telecommunications Richard qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ltd, Global Crossing UK Finance plc and Message Ernst& Young.
He was previously non-executive Chairman Committee memberships Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 36 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Tom Skelton, 54 Independent non-executive director Tom is currently Chief Executive Officer of Surescripts Officer of Misys Healthcare Systems from January 2002 LLC, a leading healthcare information technology until March 2007 and as a director of Misys plc.
Before joining Surescripts he served as Chief that, he was Chief Executive Officer of Medic Computer Executive Officer for the Foundation Radiology Group Systems, a US based software company focused on the and as a founding member of Confluence Medical healthcare information technology market.
He earned Systems, a healthcare and technology consulting his BSBA from Robert Morris University, Pittsburgh, PA. partnership.
Previously, he served as Chief Executive Tom Virden, 57 Independent non-executive director Tom is a non-executive director of technology start-up Prior to that, he was Vice President, Marketing at Sweetbeam.
He began his career at Apple Inc and held Digidesign, a California company that brought digital a range of leadership roles in market development and multitrack recording and editing to personal computers.
product marketing, including the leadership of the Tom has also started and led a number of technology companys introduction to Small Business and the Music companies including Katz Media SARL, Virtual European industry.
More recently, Tom was a non-executive director Office VEO, and most recently, Boatbookings.
com, the of Atari SA and International Business Development worlds largest online yacht charter site, with 12,000 yachts Director at lastminute.
com with responsibility for worldwide.
He is also an active angel investor and mentor International Strategy for the company and launching with Social Impact companies in Boulder, Colorado.
Tom subsidiaries and fully localized sites in France, Germany, holds a Bachelor of Arts, Double Major in Psychology Sweden, Italy, Spain, Netherlands, Australia and Ireland.
and Economics from Stanford University in California.
David Golob, 47 Non-executive director David is Partner and Chief Investment Officer at Earlier in his career, David worked as a private equity Francisco Partners.
Over the past 13 years, Davids areas investor at General Atlantic Partners, which he initially of investment activity have included infrastructure and joined in 1991, and as a management consultant at applications software as well as financial technology.
He holds an MBA from the Prior to Francisco Partners, David was a Managing Stanford Graduate School of Business, where he was Director with Tiger Management, where he was an Arjay Miller Scholar, and an AB in Chemistry from co-head of the global technology group.
Harvard College, summa cum laude.
Prescott Ashe, 48 Non-executive director Prescott is a Managing Director of Golden Gate Capital.
Prescott was one of two non-executive directors He has more than 20 years of private equity investing nominated by Golden Gate pursuant to a relationship experience and has participated in both growth-equity agreement with the Company dating from its IPO in and management buyout transactions.
Prescott focuses 2005, which entitled Golden Gate, inter alia, to appoint on the technology and information services sectors.
On 8 September 2008, following a Prior to joining Golden Gate Capital, Prescott was a reduction in Golden Gate Capitals shareholding in the Principal at Bain Capital, which he initially joined in Company, Prescott resigned his directorship.
He holds 1991, and a strategy consultant at Bain & Company.
a J. D. from Stanford Law School and a B. S. in Business Administration from the University of California at Berkeley graduating first in his class.
Karen Geary, 52 Independent non-executive director Karen is Chief People Officer of WANdisco plc, a FTSE 100 business and the worlds largest provider responsible for Human Resources and Internal of business software to SMEs, where she was Group Communications.
She is also a member of the executive Human Resources Director and a member of the management team.
Karen has more than 20 years of Executive Committee.
Prior to Sage, Karen was HR international HR and business transformation experience Director of Stena Line, the Swedish transport and across a variety of industries, managing organizations leisure operator, and spent her early career in blue through periods of large scale change, acquisition and chip global businesses.
She spent 15 years at The Sage Group plc, Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
