Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 47 Audit & Risk Committee report Annual chairmans statement Dear Shareholders, reviewed debt recoverability and agree on Classification of an asset as investment write-off, if deemed necessary.
property requires judgement, and is The composition of the Committee is determined by reference to future intentions Impairment of hotel assets described on page 48. and the Groups business model.
The total Note 12 to the consolidated financial carrying amount of investment properties as The Committee holds regular, structured statements states that the carrying amount at 31 December 2015 is 506m 2014: meetings and consults with senior of assets as at 31 December 2015 is 479m as shown in Note 14 to the management including internal audit, where 2,764m 2014: 2,753m.
The Group consolidated financial statements.
The continues to engage external valuation Committee frequently requests that senior experts to assist with the valuation exercise During the year, the Committee examined operational and functional heads attend and impairment review.
Financial managements recommendations in meetings in order to update the Committee performance and sensitivity of the valuation respect to the classification and valuation of with events in the business.
Occasionally models to the other key inputs means that investment properties and agreed that: external business consultants were also the valuation remains inherently subjective.
invited to attend the meetings to present The property, plant and equipment assets there was appropriate classification of specific projects such as the hotel are carried at historical cost, which assets as investment properties: refurbishment programme and IT security.
mitigates the risk of impairment of these there was appropriate use of third party These meetings provide the Committee an assets.
valuation expertise: opportunity to understand the projects and sufficient robust challenge was given to assess managements decisions.
During the year, the Committee examined management by the external auditors: managements recommendations in material judgemental assumptions that The Committee regularly reviews strategic respect of the valuation of the Groups hotel were used in the valuations were within and operational risks and the associated and property portfolio and agreed that: reasonable parameters: and controls and mitigating factors.
The conclusions have been appropriately Committee receives regular reports and the selection of assets to be tested was drawn.
done appropriately, taking into account briefings from internal audit and has reviewed the level of internal audit resource indicators of impairment risk and Internal controls and risks materiality: The Committee is responsible for reviewing, available within the Group and believes that it is adequate for the size, structure and there was the appropriate use of third and conducting an annual review of the party valuation expertise: effectiveness of the Groups system of business risks of the Group and is supplemented with appropriate external sufficient robust challenge was given to internal control and risk management management by the external auditors: procedures.
material judgemental assumptions that were used in the valuations were within Accepting that risk is an inherent part of The Committees review of the interim and full year financial statements for the year reasonable parameters: and doing business, the Committee reviewed conclusions have been appropriately the Groups risk management strategy to ended 31 December 2015 focused on the following areas of significance: drawn.
ensure that any required remedial action on any identified weaknesses is taken.
This Valuation & classification of investment reviewed the Groups hotel performance includes a regular review of the risk register properties with reference to RevPAR and hotel which contains the significant risks faced by In general, the carrying amount of revenue: the Group and identifies their potential investment properties is the fair value of the monitored the performance of newly impact and likelihood.
properties as determined by a registered acquired hotels: independent appraiser.
Fair values were reviewed the selection and testing of Where specific actions are agreed to determined having regard to recent market mitigate risks to a level deemed acceptable, assets for impairment purposes: transactions for similar properties in the assessed whether material judgemental these are agreed with specific timeframes same location as the Groups investment for delivery and are monitored closely until assumptions that were used in the properties.
Where a fair value cannot be valuations were within reasonable fully implemented.
reasonably determined, the property is held parameters: at cost.
monitored transactions with the The system of internal controls audited by Internal Audit and commented on by the Companys majority shareholder: reviewed the Groups tax arrangements external auditor from time to time encompasses all controls including those including transfer pricing: and Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 48 Audit & Risk Committee report continued Annual chairmans statement continued Committee governance relating to financial reporting processes, signing of the 2015 full year results.
The Our objectives The key objective of the Committee operational and compliance controls and Committee is satisfied that KPMG throughout the year has remained the those relating to risk management continues to possess the skills and provision of effective governance over the processes.
experience required to fulfil its duties appropriateness of the Groups financial effectively and efficiently.
reporting including the adequacy of related The Committee ensures that arrangements disclosures, the performance of both the are in place for employees to raise The Committee is responsible for internal audit function and the external recommending the appointment, concerns, in confidence, about possible auditor, and the oversight of the Groups fraud risk or wrong-doing in financial re-appointment and removal of the external systems of internal control, business risks auditor.
Consideration is given each year to reporting or other matters.
Where a and related compliance activities.
whistleblowing incident occurs, this is an audit tender process and the Committee Our members may undertake a tender exercise in 2016 as investigated by Internal Audit on a The Board believes that amongst the confidential basis and in a proportionate KPMG LLP has been the Groups auditor members of the Committee they have since the listing of the Company on the manner.
Appropriate actions are suitable broad commercial knowledge and recommended and undertaken which are London Stock Exchange in 1996.
The Board the current transitional rules, the latest year reported to the Committee which then has determined that Gervase MacGregor reviews the recommendations and focuses in which KPMG would be able to undertake has recent and relevant financial experience an audit of the Company is to 31 December on possible trends and potential systematic as required by the provisions of the UK weaknesses.
The Group Chief Executive Officer, senior The Committee also reviewed the Groups In order to ensure the continued finance managers, Company Secretary and cash position and future commitments, independence and objectivity of the Head of Internal Audit, although not borrowings, facilities and covenants and Groups external auditor, the Group has members of the Committee, also attend the reported its assessment to the Board.
strict policies regarding the provision of meetings, as does the senior statutory non-audit services rendered by the external auditor from our external auditor, who is not The Committee also receives reports and auditor.
The Committees approval is present when we discuss the auditors presentations from senior management on required in advance for the provision of performance and or remuneration.
significant activities of the Group, including non-audit services if the fee exceeds As part of this process of working with the branding, talent and sales strategies 50,000 for an individual assignment.
The Board and to maximise effectiveness, including the upgraded website to be Committee reviews non-audit fees regularly.
meetings of the Committee generally take launched soon.
Frequent briefings are The Groups external auditor is prohibited place just prior to a Company Board received on Health and Safety, Risk from providing any services that would meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee Management, Whistleblowing and conflict with their statutory responsibilities or reports to the Board as part of a separate Corporate Governance generally.
which would otherwise compromise their agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular objectivity or independence.
During the year relevance to the Board in the conduct of The Committee had discussions with the ended 31 December 2015, KPMGs audit their work.
external auditor on audit planning, fees, fee amounted to 2m and KPMGs accounting policies, audit findings, internal non-audit fees were 1m in total.
Our role controls and non-audit services rendered The Committees terms of reference are by them.
The external auditor attended all of The Committees performance is reviewed available from the Groups website at this years Committee meetings.
Meetings annually through a facilitated evaluation www.
com corporate are also held with the auditor without conducted by Lintstock Limited, the results investors.
The effectiveness of of which showed that the Committee was Financial reporting audit was assessed through the review of effective.
The Committee monitors the integrity, prior audit plans, reports and conclusions and to submission to the Board, of periodic Gervase MacGregor through discussions with management and financial statements, annual accounts, the external auditor.
The Committee was Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee reports to shareholders and any other satisfied that the audit was effective.
public announcement concerning the 18 February 2016 Groups financial position, corporate The Committee acknowledges the recent governance statements and statements on the Groups system of internal controls and change in the law requiring mandatory reports its views to the Board to assist in its auditor rotation.
There has been regular approval of the results announcements and partner rotation, and Jonathan Downer will the annual report.
take over from Steve Masters following the
