Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 42 Corporate governance statement Dear Shareholders, Pages 29 to 33 describe our corporate Compliance with the UK Corporate governance framework in more detail, Governance Code Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc M&C In 2015 the business faced challenging outline our principal risks and how we seek trading conditions in several key markets, to mitigate them and explain how our or the Company is the holding company of the Millennium Hotels & Resorts group of particularly in Singapore, while at the same governance is applied on a day-to-day time some positive developments came to basis.
You will find more about the work of companies the Group.
M&C is a premium listed company with equity shares pass, such as the successful on-boarding the individual Board committees in their of our new Group Chief Executive Officer, respective committee reports.
My trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and therefore the Aloysius Lee Tse Sang, and other key objectives for the Board this year are to management appointments, acquisition of ensure that the focus and composition of Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code the Hard Days Night Hotel in Liverpool and the Board continues to evolve to support the commencement and completion of the refinement and execution of our sets out standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and several significant refurbishment and strategy and address the opportunities and development projects, all to help drive the challenges we face.
effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
During this time, the Kwek Leng Beng Company has been committed to the Board has assessed the Groups Chairman compliance against the version of the Code maintaining robust corporate governance practices throughout the Group.
As with which was last amended by the Financial 18 February 2016 Reporting Council in September 2014, a last year, the Board has determined that the Company has complied with the provisions copy of which is available at www.
uk, and the Board has determined that the of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as revised by the Financial Reporting Council Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
We continually review developments in This statement forms a part of the Directors Report.
The Strategic Report on pages 14 corporate governance, both in the UK and internationally, in order to ensure that the to 33 provides information about the Groups strategy and outlook, its Groups governance regime is fit for purpose and is not simply a tick-the-box businesses, the financial and operating performance during the year, the principal exercise.
This past year saw the introduction of the viability statement, the risks and uncertainties and its corporate responsibility initiatives.
A description of the slavery and human trafficking transparency statement under the UKs newly enacted Groups business model is included on page 16 as required by provision C. 1.2 of Modern Slavery Act 2015, increased focus on the remuneration of executive directors the Code.
and other corporate governance The role of the Board and its committees enhancements.
I would like to thank the The Board provides leadership to the Directors for their hard work and diligence, Group.
It sets the Groups strategy and as members of the Board and its oversees implementation of that strategy, committees, to help the Group effectively ensuring that acceptable risks are taken manage its risks and implement good and mitigated where possible.
The Board governance in an ever changing and ensures that adequate resources are in increasing global regulatory environment.
place in order to deliver long-term value to shareholders and benefits to the wider communities in which the Group operates.
The activities of our Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are set out in the reports of each committees chairman, which reports are deemed to be part of this report.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all standing committees of the Board.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 43 The Board has a schedule of matters Appointment, re-appointment and removal maintaining an effective management reserved for its attention and which require of the external auditor to be put to team and succession planning.
its approval, including the following: shareholders for approval, following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk The respective responsibilities of the Long term objectives and commercial Committee: Chairman and Group Chief Executive strategy: Determining the remuneration policy for Officer are set out below and have been Oversight over the Groups operations and the directors, company secretary and approved by the Board again this year.
The internal controls: other senior executives: and Board currently is comprised of nine Annual operating and capital expenditure The introduction of new share incentive directors including the Chairman, one budgets: plans or major changes to existing plans, Executive Director, five independent NonExtension of the Groups activities into to be put to shareholders for approval.
Executive Directors and two other Nonnew business or geographic areas: Executive Directors who, like the Chairman, Changes relating to the Groups capital Certain of those reserved matters have are appointees of the majority shareholder, structure, corporate structure and listing been delegated to the Boards standing City Developments Limited.
Each Director is status: committees with specific delegated expected to fulfil his or her duties for the The half-yearly report, interim management authority.
Copies of the terms of reference benefit of all shareholders.
statements and any preliminary for each committee can be found on the Board and committee attendance announcement of the final results: investor relations section of the Groups The Board generally meets up to ten times The annual report and accounts, including website at www.
The actual number of regularly the corporate governance statement and corporate.
scheduled Board and Committee meetings Directors remuneration report: attended by each Director during the year is Dividend policy, declaration of the interim The Group Chief Executive Officer, supported by an executive committee shown below next to the maximum number dividend and recommendation of the final of such meetings that each Director could dividend: comprised of the regional heads of operation and key functional heads, is have attended during the year.
In addition Significant changes in accounting policies to the seven regularly scheduled Board or practices: responsible to the Board for the Groups operational performance, including: meetings, the Board also held two ad hoc The Groups treasury policies: meetings during the year.
The Audit & Risk Capital expenditure above 5m and implementing the Group strategy as Committee and Remuneration Committee material contracts and leases: determined by the Board: each held one ad hoc meeting during the Any acquisition of land, property, or any maintaining adequate internal control year while the Nominations Committee addition of a hotel into the portfolio by systems and risk management processes: meetings were scheduled as needed.
acquisition or by means of a management monitoring operational performance contract: against plans and targets and reporting to Major investments, including the the Board any significant variances: and acquisition or disposal of interests of more than five per cent of the voting shares of any company or the making of any Audit & Risk Nominations Remuneration takeover offer: Board Committee Committee Committee Marketing campaigns or sponsorships Kwek Leng Beng 7 7 2 2 where expenditure exceeds 500,000: 1 Aloysius Lee Tse Sang 6 6 Approval of resolutions and corresponding 2 Wong Hong Ren 1 1 documentation to be put forward to Shaukat Aziz 6 7 2 2 4 5 shareholders at a general meeting: Susan Farr 7 7 2 2 5 5 Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and Nicholas George 7 7 6 6 2 2 5 5 listing particulars: 3 Gervase MacGregor 7 7 6 6 3 3 Changes to the structure, size and Kwek Leng Peck 4 7 1 2 composition of the board, following Kwek Eik Sheng 7 7 recommendations from the Nominations Alexander Waugh 7 7 6 6 2 2 5 5 Committee: Appointments to the board, following 1 Aloysius Lee T se Sang was appointed to the Board with effect as of 1 March 2015. recommendations by the Nominations 2 Wong Hong Ren stepped down from the Board on 28 February 2015.
3 Gervase MacGregor was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 7 May 2015.
Committee: Membership and chairmanship of Board committees: Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 44 Corporate governance statement continued The Chairman implement such strategic vision, develop dealing restrictions.
Such letters of The Chairman provides leadership to the the strategic plan, business plan and appointment are subject to termination by Board on all aspects of its role.
His key budget and deliver the same to the either party giving one months notice.
duties are to: satisfaction of the Board: Appointment and any subsequent relead and act as an advocate for the appointment of a Non-Executive Director is formulate and set the strategic direction executive management team of the subject at all times to the Articles of and organisational structure of the Group, Group: Association of the Company and any subject to the Boards approval: oversee the execution of the strategic necessary shareholder approval or set a clear vision for the Group: vision and plans, and assess the Groups ratification.
mentor the Group Chief Executive Officer performance and progress in meeting Pursuant to Listing Rule 13.8.
17 and based as and when required: them: balance the interests of management and promote the growth of the Group: on the principles outlined in provision B.
1.1 of the Code, the Board regularly reviews the the Board as well as the needs of develop the management team and shareholders and management: establish a succession plan for key independence of each of the Companys Non-Executive Directors, taking into act as a liaison between management and management appointments: the Board as well as between the act on the feedback of the Chairman: account whether the Non-Executive Director is independent in character and Company and its shareholders: be responsible for the day-to-day manage communications and information management of the Groups business and judgement, and whether there are any relationships or circumstances that are likely dissemination processes between the affairs and ensure that significant issues Company and its shareholders and work that arise are resolved in an efficient and to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Following that review in closely with the Companys public timely manner: and relations team to achieve this objective: lead the management team to improve December 2015, the Board has determined that there is no change to the independent establish the agenda and manage Board performance in every division.
meetings: status of the five current independent The independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Their diverse offer advice and tap the collective wisdom Directors and experience of Board members: business backgrounds, skills and The majority of the Board is made up of experience enable all of them to continue to take a proactive role in the appointment of independent Non-Executive Directors who Directors and, following such bring independent judgement to bear on have wide ranging international experience issues of strategy, performance, resources, appointments, oversee the development at senior levels in areas of finance, of individual Directors: and key appointments, standards of conduct accounting and investigatory work, fund and other matters presented to the Board.
develop the top management team, in management, media, branding and particular the Group Chief Executive international affairs.
They bring strong, In addition, in line with the principles Officer, and establish a succession plan for independent judgement to the deliberations the Group Chief Executive Officer position.
2.3, the of the Board, particularly in respect of the continued service of any Non-Executive Groups corporate governance regime.
There have been no changes to the Director for a term beyond six years should Chairmans other significant commitments be subject to particularly rigorous review.
Nicholas George, as the Senior during the year.
Nicholas George, His Excellency Shaukat Independent Director, is available to meet Aziz, and Alexander Waugh each were The Group Chief Executive Officer with our institutional shareholders and appointed in June 2009 and reached six The Group Chief Executive Officer reports shareholder representative bodies and to years of Board service during 2015. to the Board and has ultimate accountability discuss any matters where it would be Consequently, the members of the for the day-to-day running of the Group.
He inappropriate for conversations to be held Nominations Committee, excluding those is responsible for leading the management with either the Chairman or the Group Chief Directors who are members of the team, operational activities and Executive Officer.
He also acts as a committee, reviewed their performance and performance of the Group, including the sounding board for the Chairman and as an independence during a meeting in May effective delivery of the Companys strategy intermediary for other Board members 2015 and determined that their continued and business plan, as agreed by the Board, when necessary.
appointment was appropriate for the while managing and mitigating the principal following reasons: On appointment, each independent Nonrisks faced by the Group.
Executive Director receives a letter of their length of tenure provided them with a appointment setting out the terms of their His duties are to: deep understanding of the business that appointment, fees to be paid and matters enabled them to challenge management: receive the strategic vision of the Group such as confidentiality of information, they continue to make valuable from the Board of Directors and to potential conflicts of interest and share contributions to Board discussions: and Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 45 the three directors provided continuity to Evaluation process the costs of protecting against such risks.
the Board given the relatively recent An independent,  Board However, such systems are designed to appointments of Susan Farr, Gervase evaluation was once again conducted by manage or mitigate these principal risks, MacGregor and Aloysius Lee Tse Sang in Lintstock Limited.
In the fourth quarter of rather than eliminate them, and can only December 2013, December 2014 and 2015, the Directors and Company provide reasonable and not absolute March 2015 respectively.
Secretary completed on-line questionnaires assurance against material misstatement.
and a number of one-on-one interviews The Groups principal risk factors and At least once during the year the Chairman with members of the Lintstock team.
The mitigating activities are described on and independent Non-Executive Directors evaluation process covered the Board and pages 29 to 33. met, without the Executive Director being the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and The main features of the Groups internal present, to discuss the performance of Nominations Committees and focused on senior management, the Board and other the following key themes: control and risk management framework are set out below.
board composition, expertise and Director training and information Strategy dynamics: All Directors have access to the advice of time management and Board support: The Groups strategic direction is reviewed the Company Secretary, who is responsible by the Board, generally on an annual the operation of Board committees: for ensuring the Board procedures and strategic oversight: basis.
Often as part of that process, a applicable corporate governance rules and dedicated Board strategy session is held risk management and internal controls: regulations are observed.
In addition, the and with the Group Chief Executive Officer and Directors are able, if necessary, to take other senior management as appropriate.
succession planning and human resource independent professional advice at the management.
Further detail about the Groups business Companys expense.
The Non-Executive model and strategy can be found on Directors also have the opportunity to meet As part of the Lintstock exercise, an page 16. separately with the Chairman during the evaluation of the Chairman was completed Management prepares an annual budget year.
by the independent Non-Executive for each year, in line with the Groups Directors, led by the Senior Independent strategy, and that budget is submitted to The Chairman, in conjunction with the Director, and individual performance the Board for its review and approval.
Company Secretary, is also responsible for reviews were submitted by the Directors.
The Board reviews, at least quarterly, ensuring that Directors receive appropriate managements progress in executing the training at the Companys expense where Following completion of the questionnaires, Groups strategy and how the Groups specific expertise is required in the course a preliminary report was produced based performance is tracking against the annual of the exercise of their duties.
All Directors on feedback received.
The results of the budget.
receive a Board compendium detailing surveys were presented and discussed at matters relating to Board procedures.
A the Board Meeting held in February 2016 Internal controls bespoke induction programme is and the outcome of the interviews will be The Company reviews and confirms its established for any new directors who are considered in due course.
level of compliance with the Code on an appointed, based on their needs and annual basis.
Lintstock Limited has no other significant The matters reserved to the Board require connection with the Group.
that significant transactions, projects and Conflicts of interest programmes must have specific Board The Board has established agreed Internal control and risk management approval.
system in relation to preparation of procedures for managing potential If Board approval is not required, authority consolidated accounts operational conflicts of interest.
These levels are prescribed and delegated to The Board is responsible for the Groups procedures and any potential conflicts ensure segregation among management internal control and risk management authorised in accordance with section 175 and proper escalation of approval limits.
systems, including oversight over the of the Companies Act 2006, as permitted Group financial and treasury policies, processes and procedures which are in by the Companys Articles of Association, controls and procedures are in place and place in connection with the preparation of are reviewed by the Board at least annually regularly reviewed and updated.
In and other potential conflicts are reviewed as All financial information published by the establishing these systems, the Directors they may arise from time to time.
The Board Group is subject to the approval of the have considered the nature of the Groups is satisfied that the procedures for Audit & Risk Committee and the Board.
business, the principal risks to which the managing potential conflicts remain business is exposed, the likelihood of such effective.
risks occurring, their potential impact and Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 46 Corporate governance statement continued Risk management Communications with shareholders meeting and related papers are sent to The principal risks of the Group are The Board and executive management shareholders at least 21 working days assessed annually.
team regularly interact with shareholders prior to the date of the meeting, and the During the year, there is an ongoing and analysts.
In particular: Company encourages all shareholders to process for identifying, evaluating and make positive use of the opportunity to managing those risks and, if appropriate, Presentations are made after the communicate with the Board.
A schedule modifying the risks in light of changing announcement of the Groups final and of the proxy votes cast at the meeting is conditions.
This process is reviewed by half-yearly results.
During these then made available on the Companys the Audit & Risk Committee on behalf of presentations, analysts have the website after the conclusion of the the Board and has been in place for the opportunity to ask questions of the Group meeting.
year under review and up to the date of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of approval of the Annual Report.
Management meets with institutional Operation shareholders on an ongoing basis to Primary responsibility for the day-to-day review the Groups performance, business operation of the internal control and risk model and objectives.
In addition, the management systems is delegated to the Senior Independent Director often Groups Chief Executive Officer and the conducts meetings with a range of major executive management team.
The heads shareholders during the year: other Nonof the Companys operating regions and Executive Directors have the opportunity global functions carry out regular reviews to attend such meetings.
Significant to ensure appropriate actions are feedback expressed by shareholders implemented to meet the Groups during those meetings is then provided to objectives and manage its principal risks the Board in a timely manner.
As part of the Companys regular investor relations activities, the Group Chief Assurance Executive Officer, the Company Secretary The effectiveness of the internal control and senior finance personnel are available and risk management systems is reviewed to answer queries raised by analysts and by an internal audit function and, where institutional investors from time to time.
appropriate, by the Groups external The Groups website provides regular auditor and or external consultants, who updates for investors and contains all report to management and to the Audit & announcements made by the Group.
As part of that process, At the annual general meeting, all the internal audit department produces shareholders have the opportunity to individual reports, which are issued to question the Chairman and other appropriate senior management, who are Directors, including the Chairs of the Audit accountable to rectify any deficiencies and & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations implement any recommendations.
The Company prepares reports are summarised and distributed, individual resolutions on each substantially as appropriate, to the Audit & Risk separate issue to be put to shareholders Committee members, the Group Chief and does not combine resolutions Executive Officer, senior management and together inappropriately, and the Annual the external auditors and, where Report and Accounts is laid before the necessary, issues are drawn to the shareholders at the annual general attention of the full Board.
Notice of the annual general
