Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 65 Nominations Committee report Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholders, challenging conditions in certain of our key compete effectively in the marketplace: markets during the year.
review the time required from NonThis report describes the activities of the Executive Directors: Future priorities Nominations Committee during 2015. in consultation with the Chairmen of the As a result of the work undertaken during Board committees, review and if Activities undertaken in 2015 2015, the Nominations Committee and appropriate recommend changes to the The Committee met two times during the Board have a good understanding of the composition of the committees: year and we focused our attention on the challenges facing the business and the consider the re-appointment of Nonfollowing matters in particular: talent, both at the Board and executive Executive Directors at the conclusion of management level, required to move the their specified terms of office, giving due Maintaining Board stability in light of the Group forward.
We are encouraged by the regard to their performance and ability to recent appointments of Nick George as depth of talent available within the Group continue to contribute to the Board: and the Senior Independent Director and and the plans in place to add further assess the appointment of any Director to Gervase MacGregor as a Director and capability to the team.
an executive or other office.
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee at the end of 2014, following the departure of Kwek Leng Beng Board diversity Chairman of the Nominations Committee Sean Collins, and the appointment of The Committee recognises the value of Aloysius Lee Tse Sang as the new Group diversity and that it can only serve to 18 February 2016 Chief Executive Officer and a Director after strengthen the Group.
We continue to Wong Hong Ren stepped down on incorporate all aspects of diversity as an Committee Governance 28 February 2015 objective criterion for the selection of future Supporting Mr Lee in continuing to build Board members and we also strive to Membership the strength of the senior management ensure that this policy is reflected in all The Nominations Committee comprises a team through additional recruitment and levels of the organisation.
We support the majority of independent Non-Executive re-alignment of roles and responsibilities aspirations set out by Lord Davies in his Directors and meets on such occasions as Assessing the membership of the Boards report on Women on Boards, including the are necessary, but at least twice each year.
committees, which assessment resulted in representation of women at the highest Kwek Leng Beng chairs the Committee the appointment of Gervase MacGregor to level in the organisation.
Selection of except when the business of the meeting the Remuneration Committee in May 2015 candidates to join the Board is based on concerns his succession.
The Board As described further in the Corporate merit and the contribution which they will considers that all members have the Governance Statement on page 44, bring to the workings of the Board.
experience and expertise necessary to reviewing the continued service of Shaukat meet the Committees responsibilities.
Advisors Aziz, Nicholas George and Alexander Waugh given they each completed six The Company Secretary, the Group Chief Role of the Committee Executive Officer and other members of the years as Directors in June 2015 The role of the Committee is, among other Considering the composition of the Board management team are invited to attend things, to: meetings as appropriate.
External advisers and needs of the Group to determine if any additional appointments were are consulted when necessary to provide Review the structure, size and advice or market perspective.
necessary composition of the Board, including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity Board and management changes The Committee did not utilise any external of the Directors: As noted above, Wong Hong Ren stepped advisors during 2015: however, the Group consider succession planning for directors down from the Board on 28 February 2015 did engage recruitment firms from time to and other senior executives, taking into and Aloysius Lee Tse Sang joined the time during the year, as necessary, to account the challenges and opportunities Group as the new Group Chief Executive identify qualified candidates to fill senior facing the Company and the skills and Officer and a Director on 1 March 2015.
expertise needed: are satisfied with the work done by Mr Lee, identify and nominate for approval by the Terms of Reference in conjunction with the Board and Board candidates to fill Board vacancies The Nominations Committees terms of management team, during his induction when they arise: reference are available at: www.
programme and are confident that he is in a keep under review the leadership needs of millenniumhotels.
strong position to progress the Groups the organisation, with a view to ensuring html.
strategy against the backdrop of the continued ability of the organisation to
