38 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Directors and certain officers and employees of the Group require the prior approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Participants in the Share Incentive Plan SIP may complete a Form of Instruction which is used by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited, The Boards responsibilities in respect of the the SIP Trustee, as the basis for voting on their behalf.
Company include: Determining the overall business and commercial strategy During the year, shares with a nominal value of 75,401 were allotted Identifying the Companys long-term objectives under all-employee schemes as permitted under Section 549 of the Reviewing the annual operating budget and financial plans Companies Act 2006.
No securities were issued in connection with and monitoring performance in relation to those plans a rights issue during the year.
Determining the basis of the allocation of capital Considering all policy matters relating to the Companys activities The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that including any major change of policy restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
F or the Companys latest financial information go to: www.
com investors Interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the issued share capital of the Company as at the year end are on page 67 of the Report on Directors remuneration.
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 26 September 2015.
The Business review of the Dividend Company and its subsidiaries is given on pages 24 and 25 which, No Interim Dividend was paid during the year 2014 nil.
The Board together with the Corporate governance statement and Audit Committee recommends a final dividend for the year ended 26 September 2015 report, are incorporated by reference into this report and, accordingly, of 5p per share to be paid on 9 February 2016 to shareholders on the should be read as part of this report.
register at close of business on 4 December 2015.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 5p per share 2014 nil.
Details of the Groups policy on addressing risks are given on pages 18 to 21 and 47 and 48, and details about financial instruments are shown in Interests in voting rights note 4.4 to the financial statements.
These sections include information As at the date of this report, the Company was aware of the following about trends and factors likely to affect the future development and significant holdings of voting rights 3% or more in its shares: performance of the Groups businesses.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Ordinary % of Shareholder shares share capital Key performance indicators for the Groups businesses are set out Piedmont Inc. 109,970,613 26.62 Direct holding on page 22.
Elpida Group Limited 95,553,211 23.13 Direct holding Smoothfield Holding Limited 17,936,260 4.34 Direct holding This report has been prepared under current legislation and guidance Standard Life 24,457,974 5.92 Indirect holding in force at the year end date.
In addition, the material contained on pages 2 to 33 reflects the Directors understanding of the requirement to Using the total voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange for provide a Strategic report.
This report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Directors Company as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, Details of the Directors as at 23 November 2015 and their biographies employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to are shown on pages 36 and 37.
The Directors at 26 September 2015 any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands and their interests in shares are shown on page 67.
Alistair Darby it may come or who becomes aware of it and any such responsibility resigned as a Director on 26 September 2015 and Phil Urban was or liability is expressly disclaimed.
appointed as a Director on 27 September 2015.
Douglas McMahon, a nominated Director of Piedmont Inc. stepped down from the Board Areas of operation on 13 November 2015 and was replaced on the same date by Josh Throughout FY 2015 the Group had activities in, and operated through, Levy, a new nominated Director of Piedmont Inc.
There were no other pubs, bars and restaurants in the United Kingdom and Germany.
changes to the Board of Directors during the year nor subsequent to the year end, up to the date of this report.
Share capital The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 26 September 2015 The Company is governed by its Articles of Association and comprised a single class of ordinary shares of which 412,520,626 shares the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation in relation to the were in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange 27 September appointment and removal of Directors.
The powers of the Companys 2014 411,637,885 shares.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
ordinary shares of the Company are contained within the Companys Articles of Association.
Of the issued share capital, no shares were held In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association which are in treasury and the Companys employee share trusts held 1,523,502 in line with best practice guidance of the UK Corporate Governance shares.
Details of movements in the issued share capital can be found Code, all the Directors will retire at the AGM.
Phil Urban and Josh Levy in note 4.7 to the financial statements on page 105.
Each share carries offer themselves for election for the first time and all the other Directors the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The notice of offer themselves for re-election.
the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to the resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Under a Deed of Appointment between Piedmont Inc. and the Company, Piedmont Inc. has the right to appoint two shareholder All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations Directors to the Board whilst it owns 22% or more of the issued share or special rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares in the capital of the Company, and the right to appoint one shareholder Company, or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, other Director to the Board whilst it owns more than 16% of the Company than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing but less than 22%.
In the event that Piedmont Inc. owns less than laws and regulations and under the Articles of Association.
In addition, 16% of the Company any such shareholder Directors would be pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, required to resign immediately.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 39 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Companys two largest shareholders, Piedmont Inc. and Elpida Group may take all or any of the following matters into account: the long-term Limited, have nominated representatives on the Board.
Piedmonts interests of beneficiaries, the non-financial interests of beneficiaries, appointment rights are formalised in a Deed of Appointment but there the interests of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees or former is no equivalent agreement in place between the Company and Elpida.
employees, the interests of future beneficiaries and considerations The Elpida representative was appointed with the approval of the Board of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
The Board has carefully considered whether it would be appropriate to enter into a formal agreement with Elpida that is similar to The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include the existing agreement between the Company and Piedmont.
Having provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction, taken into account the Financial Reporting Councils report of August 2014 as set out below.
Towards Clear & Concise Reporting and the views expressed previously by certain of the investor representative bodies, the Board considers that Provisions which apply in the event of a takeover such an agreement would be merely one of form rather than substance or reconstruction and not in the interests of shareholders generally.
As a result, the Board Share plan Provision in the event of a takeover does not propose currently that the Company should enter into such an agreement with Elpida, and Elpida has not to date sought such an Performance Restricted Share Plan Awards vest pro rata to performance and time and 2013 Performance Restricted elapsed and lapse six months later agreement.
The Board considers that the Company is acting in accordance Share Plan with good governance principles in working with our significant long-term Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan Bonus shares may be released or exchanged shareholders towards our common goals and the achievement of the and 2013 Short Term Deferred for shares in the new controlling company Companys strategy, with continued stability at Board level.
Incentive Plan Sharesave Plan and 2013 Options may be exercised within six months of Directors indemnity Sharesave Plan a change of control As permitted by the Articles of Association, each of the Directors has Share Incentive Plan and 2013 Free shares may be released or exchanged for Share Incentive Plan shares in the new controlling company the benefit of an indemnity, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity Employment policies was in force throughout the tenure of each Director during the last The Group employed an average of 44,492 people in FY 2015 financial year, and is currently in force.
Such an indemnity was put in FY 2014 41,514.
Through its diversity policy, the Company seeks place on the appointment of each of Phil Urban and Josh Levy to the to ensure that every employee, without exception, is treated equally Board on 27 September 2015 and 13 November 2015 respectively.
and fairly and that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself and Our policies and procedures fully support our disabled colleagues.
No indemnity is provided for the Companys auditor.
We take active measures to do so via: Articles of Association a robust reasonable adjustment policy: The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution disability-specific online resources accessible via the Groups of the shareholders of the Company.
online recruitment system : and processes to ensure colleagues are fully supported.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if The Group is responsive to the needs of its employees.
As such, should it sees fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, any employee of the Group become disabled during their time with us, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational we will actively retrain that employee and make reasonable adjustments Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare to their environment where possible, in order to keep the employee Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those Directors with the Group.
who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required Employee engagement to act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success Mitchells & Butlers engages with its employees continuously and in a of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose number of ways to suit their different working patterns.
This includes: limits or conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The Board believes that the systems it has in line manager briefings: place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts continue to communications forums and roadshows held by functions operate effectively.
or brands across the Company: a dedicated intranet for the Retail Support Team: Related party transactions a dedicated portal, OurHub, for retail employees: Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions email news alerts: involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an focus groups: arms-length basis and are properly recorded.
weekly bulletins specifically targeted at retail house managers and mobile workers: Change of control provisions employee social media groups: and There are no significant agreements which contain provisions entitling a monthly magazine poster, Frontline News, for the retail estate.
other parties to such agreements to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Details of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company are shared with all employees at the appropriate time There are no provisions in the Directors or employees service agreements using the methods listed above.
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment occurring because of a takeover.
We provide opportunities for employees to give their feedback to the Company in a number of ways, from team or shift meetings The trustee of the Companys SIP will invite participants on whose in restaurants and pubs and pulse surveys for all employees to behalf it holds shares to direct it how to vote in respect of those shares, the Mitchells & Butlers annual Business Forum.
Business Forum and, if there is an offer for the shares or other transaction which would representatives collect questions from employees across the lead to a change of control of the Company, participants may direct Company and put them to members of the Executive Committee.
it to accept the offer or agree to the transaction.
The trustee of the The questions and answers are published in Frontline News and online.
Mitchells & Butlers Employee Benefit Trust may, having consulted with the Company, vote or abstain from voting in respect of any shares it holds or accept or reject an offer relating to shares in any way it sees fit, and it 40 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report The current funding arrangements of the Group consist of the securitised notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc and continued associated liquidity facility and 150m of unsecured committed bank facilities.
Further information regarding these arrangements is included in note 4.2 to the financial statements on page 94.
is a Company-wide initiative where employees The terms of the securitisation and the bank facilities contain are encouraged to submit their ideas for improving the business, a number of financial and operational covenants.
Compliance environmentally, financially or otherwise, via our dedicated with these covenants is monitored by Group Treasury.
The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six-week Our retail teams complete compulsory bespoke induction Food and period and an annual cash forecast by period.
These forecasts are Fire, Heath & Safety training via e-Learning.
This is at an equivalent reviewed on a daily basis and used to manage the investment and level to the NVQ II.
The retail management teams complete an borrowing requirements of the Group.
A combination of cash pooling additional classroom-based NVQ III equivalent course.
and zero balancing agreements are in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position is maintained.
Committed facilities outside of Mitchells & Butlers operates the Challenge 21 policy in all our businesses the securitisation are sized to ensure that the Group can meet its across England and Wales.
The policy requires that any guest attempting medium-term anticipated cash flow requirements.
to buy alcohol who appears under the age of 21, must provide an acceptable form of proof of age ID to confirm that they are over 18, Going concern before they can be served.
This policy forms part of our regular training The financial statements which appear on pages 70 to 115 have for our employees on their responsibilities for serving alcohol.
been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: We also have a visual training library, which houses short training its financial risk management objectives: its financial instruments and videos to share best practice tips, health and safety guidance, kitchen hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
operational advice and cooking skills.
The Groups financing is based on securitised debt and unsecured bank facilities and, within this context, a robust review has been Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage greater employee involvement undertaken of projected performance against all financial covenants.
in the Groups performance through share ownership.
It operates four As a result of this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation HMRC approved all-employee plans, which are the Sharesave Plan, the that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 2013 Sharesave Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and the 2013 Share Incentive existence for the foreseeable future.
See section 1 of the financial Plan which include Partnership shares.
The Company also operates statements on page 79. four other plans on a selective basis, which are the Performance Restricted Share Plan, the 2013 Performance Restricted Share Plan, the Annual General Meeting Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan and the 2013 Short Term Deferred The notice convening the Annual General Meeting is contained Incentive Plan.
All remaining options under the Executive Share Option in a circular sent to shareholders with this report and includes full Plan were exercised during FY 2015 and the scheme has now expired, details of the resolutions proposed.
both for grant and exercise purposes.
Further details on the plans are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration.
Auditor Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom limits as auditor of the Company and its reappointment will be put to for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the rules of the shareholders at the AGM.
The Company uses an employee benefit trust to acquire shares in the market when appropriate to satisfy share awards in order Post-balance sheet events to manage headroom under the plan rules.
No shares in the Company There are no post-balance sheet events to report.
were purchased by the employee benefit trust during FY 2015.
Disclosure of information to auditor Political donations Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, The Company made no political donations during the year and intends there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, however, the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, and each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken seek shareholder authority at its 2016 AGM to make limited donations to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to or incur limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement Funding and liquidity risk The Group generates GHG emissions throughout its estate of bars In order to ensure that the Groups long-term funding strategy is and restaurants for heating, cooling, lighting and catering, including aligned with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly the refrigeration and preparation of food and drink.
assesses the maturity profile of the Groups debt, alongside the prevailing financial projections and three year plan.
This enables GHG emissions per m turnover were reduced by 0.26% during the it to ensure that funding levels are appropriate to support the 2014 15 tax year in comparison to 2013 14.
This has been achieved Groups plans.
despite an increase in like-for-like food sales volumes and a shift towards longer trading hours by carrying out a mix of behavioural change programmes, including our first ever Energy Week, supplemented by ongoing investment in increasing the energy efficiency of our buildings and equipment.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 41 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Assessment parameters Assessment year 2014 15 Tax Year Financial control Consolidation approach Boundary summary All bars and restaurants either owned or under operational control during the 2014 15 tax year were included.
Scope General classifications of GHG emissions scopes based on the GHG protocol and ISO14064-1:2006 within the context of the Groups operations are as follows: Scope 1 direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Company, eg fuel combustion of varying types, occurs during kitchen activity and to generate heating and domestic hot water most commonly through natural grid supplied gas, but also some LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas and oil.
Real fires fuelled by logs or coal are also used to supplement customer comfort and enhance ambience.
Scope 2 GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity used during kitchen activity and for lighting, heating and cooling.
Scope 3 indirect emissions as a consequence of the activities of the Company, but occurring from sources not owned or controlled by the Company.
This assessment focuses on scope 1 and 2 emissions only scope 3 is optional under the current regulations.
Consistency with the Scope 1 and 2 emissions are reported for the 2014 15 tax year and the 2013 14 tax year to retain consistency with financial statements reporting of our carbon emissions under the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from sites with landlord supplies are not included in the CRC submission.
Orchid sites are included as their acquisition was completed during the 2014 15 tax year.
These sites were omitted from the 2014 GHG emissions statement.
Franchise sites are excluded as they are responsible for arranging and paying for their own energy.
ALEX sites in Germany are included.
Emissions are based on UK average emissions multiplied by the number of ALEX sites.
Exclusions Scope 1 Vehicle fleet emissions are excluded as they have been calculated to account for 1% total emissions which falls below the materiality threshold.
Scope 1 Fugitive emissions within refrigeration and cooling equipment are not included as detailed records are not yet held.
Outside of scope Logs are outside of scope because the scope 1 impact of these fuels has been determined to be a net 0.
However, the CO e value of logs has been calculated to be 1% and would be excluded in any 2 case as it falls below the materiality threshold.
Emission factor data source Defra conversion factors have been used where appropriate.
Carbon emission conversion factors that relate to the calendar year within which the greatest portion of the data falls have been applied.
As such, 2014 factors have been applied for the 2014 15 tax year and 2013 factors have been applied for the 2013 14 tax year.
Assessment methodology Defra Environmental Guidelines 2013.
Materiality threshold All emission types estimated to contribute 1% of total emissions are included.
Intensity threshold Emissions are stated in tonnes CO e per m revenue.
This intensity ratio puts emissions into context given 2 the scale of the Groups activities and enables comparison with prior year performance.
Target Emissions during the 2013 14 tax year are provided for comparative purposes.
By order of the Board Greg McMahon Company Secretary and General Counsel 23 November 2015
