36 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors A strong team with the right experience.
Imelda Walsh Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 37 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1.
Josh Levy, aged 25 bc Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed as Interim Non-Executive Chairman in July 2011, Appointed a Non-Executive Director in November 2015, Josh works in Bob became Executive Chairman in October 2011 and reverted to the Investment Banking Division of Investec Bank plc and holds an MSc Non-Executive Chairman in November 2012.
He has over 30 years and a BA Hons from the University of Nottingham.
Josh is a nominated of extensive food and beverage experience with a particular focus shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. on food-led, managed restaurants, pubs and hotels.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Carpetright plc, Senior Independent 7.
Ron Robson, aged 52 abc Director of Britvic plc and a Non-Executive Director of Charles Wells Deputy Chairman Limited.
He was previously Senior Independent Director of AGA Appointed as Deputy Chairman in July 2011, Ron is a Managing Rangemaster Group plc and a main Board Director of S&N plc as Director of Tavistock Group, Chief Executive of Ultimate Finance Chairman and Managing Director of its Scottish & Newcastle retail Group and a Non-Executive Director of Tottenham Hotspur Limited.
He has also been Chairman of Regent Inns, Chairman of Park He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Tamar Capital Partners Resorts and of Next Generation Clubs and was Managing Director and Group Finance Director of Kenmore, both property investment of Beefeater Restaurants, one of Whitbreads pub restaurant brands, and management groups.
From 2005 to 2008 he was Group Finance and a Director of The Restaurant Group.
Bob is Chair of the Director of The Belhaven Group plc, a listed pub retailing, brewing Nomination Committee.
Prior to that he held a number of senior finance roles including Group Finance Director of a listed shipping 2.
Phil Urban, aged 52 and logistics group, and trained as a Chartered Accountant with d Chief Executive Arthur Andersen.
Ron is a nominated shareholder representative Phil joined Mitchells & Butlers in January 2015 as Chief Operating of Piedmont Inc.
Officer and became Chief Executive in September 2015.
Phil was previously Managing Director at Grosvenor Casinos, a division of 8.
Colin Rutherford, aged 56 abc Rank Group and Chairman of the National Casino Forum.
Prior to Independent Non-Executive Director that, he was Managing Director for Whitbreads Pub Restaurant Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in April 2013, division, and for Scottish & Newcastle Retails Restaurants and Colin is currently Chairman of Brookgate Limited and Teachers Media Accommodation Division.
Phil has an MBA and is a qualified plc.
He was formerly Executive Chairman of MAM Funds plc and Euro management accountant CIMA.
Sales Finance plc amongst various other public and private companies in the UK and overseas.
Colin is a member of the Institute of Chartered 3.
Tim Jones, aged 52 Accountants of Scotland and has directly relevant corporate finance d Finance Director experience in both the leisure and hospitality industries.
Colin is Tim was appointed Finance Director in October 2010.
Prior to joining Chair of the Audit Committee.
the Company, he held the position of Group Finance Director for Interserve plc, a support services group.
Imelda Walsh, aged 51 abc of Financial Operations at Novar plc and held senior financial roles Independent Non-Executive Director both in the UK and overseas in the logistics company, Exel plc.
Tim Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in April 2013, is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Imelda is a Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Remuneration Wales and obtained an MA in Economics at Cambridge University.
Committee of William Hill plc, Mothercare plc and FirstGroup plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee She was a Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Remuneration at Poundland Group plc.
Committee, of Sainsburys Bank plc from 2006 to 2010.
She has held senior Executive roles at J Sainsbury plc, where she was Group 4.
Stewart Gilliland, aged 58 HR Director from March 2004 to July 2010, Barclays Bank plc and abc Senior Independent Director Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages Limited.
Imelda is Chair of Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in May 2013 the Remuneration Committee.
and as Senior Independent Director in February 2015.
Stewart was Key Chief Executive Officer of Muller Dairy UK Limited until 2010 and a.
Member of the Audit Committee prior to that held senior management positions in InBev SA, Interbrew b.
Member of the Remuneration Committee UK Limited and Whitbread plc.
He is currently Chairman of Booker c. Member of the Nomination Committee Group Plc and a Non-Executive Director of Sutton and East Surrey d. Member of the Executive Committee Water plc, Tulip Group Limited, Natures Way Foods Limited, C&C Group plc and Vianet Group Plc.
Eddie Irwin, aged 56 abc Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2012, Eddie is a nominee of Elpida Group Limited, a significant shareholder in Mitchells & Butlers.
Eddie is Finance Director of Coolmore, a leading thoroughbred bloodstock breeder with operations in Ireland, the USA and Australia and a Non-Executive Director of Grove Ltd, the holding company of Barchester Healthcare Limited.
He is a Fellow of both the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
