Strategic Report Governance Financial Audit Committee Chairmans introduction The primary role of the Audit Committee is to oversee and assist the Board in its responsibility to approve a set of fair, balanced and understandable group Annual Report and Accounts.
The accounts should provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, business model and financial performance throughout the year.
The Committee ensures that the group has in place effective financial governance in respect of the groups financial results, the performance of both the Internal Audit function and the Independent Auditor, and the management of the groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
Audit Committee members The Chairman of the Committee is David Jenkins, who continues to be deemed by the Board, as at the date of this report, to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience through his qualifications and ongoing positions.
David will retire from the Board in December 2015, and will step down as Chairman of the Committee at the AGM in July.
Mark Reckitt will be appointed Non-Executive Director with effect on 1 July 2015, and will be appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee upon David stepping down.
Mark is similarly deemed by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience through his qualifications and ongoing positions.
Marks biography is included in the Notice of AGM.
The Audit Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties.
Chairman David Jenkins Committee members Crawford Gillies Larry Hirst Jack Boyer Key purpose of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee provides effective governance over the appropriateness of the groups financial reporting, and the performance of both the Internal and External Audit functions.
The Committee also oversees the groups internal control systems, business risks management and related compliance activities.
The Committee meets independently with the Independent Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without the Executive Directors present.
As Chairman of the Committee David Jenkins will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Key responsibilities of the Audit Committee The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: a monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and estimates and judgments having regard to matters communicated to it by the Independent Auditor: a reviewing summary financial statements, significant financial returns to regulators and any financial information contained in certain other documents, such as announcements of a price sensitive nature: a reviewing the Half-Year Financial Report and Annual Report and Accounts, including the fair, balanced and understandable statement, and recommending the same for Board approval: a keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems being the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and other risks : a reviewing accounting policies and key areas of accounting judgement: a reviewing the Independent Auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and judgements: Mitie Group plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee a assessing the effectiveness of the Independent Auditor including the appropriateness and skills of its audit team, the quality of its services, and its re-appointment: a reviewing and monitoring compliance with the Non-Audit Services Policy and maintenance of auditor independence: a reviewing the groups consolidated risk register prior to its approval by the Board: a approving the groups assurance framework and the internal audit plan: a reviewing key internal audit reports and findings: a reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys arrangements for its employees and business partners to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters ensuring that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action : a considering managements response to any major internal or external audit recommendations: and a monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit, independent audit and risk management systems and functions.
The Audit Committees terms of reference were updated during the year and are available at http: www.
Frequency of Audit Committee meetings During the financial year, the Audit Committee met five times.
Meetings may, by invitation, be attended by the Companys Independent Auditor, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit.
Attendance Number of meetings held in year: 5 David Jenkins 5 Crawford Gillies 4 of 5 Larry Hirst 5 Jack Boyer 5 The role of the Committee financial reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with both management and the Independent Auditor the appropriateness of the Half-Year and Annual Report and Accounts concentrating on, amongst other matters: a the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies and practices both on a year on year basis and across the Company: a the clarity and completeness of disclosure in the Companys financial statements and the context in which statements are made: a the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions where different approaches are possible: and a whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
To aid the review, the Committee considers reports from the Group Finance Director and also reports from the Independent Auditor on the outcomes of the Half-Year review and Independent Audit.
Going concern The Audit Committee considered the evidence that supports the ability of the Directors to conclude that Mitie has adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and can prepare its accounts on a going concern basis.
The Committee considered the future prospects and performance of the group including the potential impact of acquisition activity: the projected future cash flows of the group: the availability of core and ancillary financing facilities and compliance with related covenants: and the projected drawn positions and headroom available on the core committed financing facilities.
It also reviewed and considered the disclosures on the matter of going concern in the Annual Report and Accounts and considered them to be appropriate.
Mitie Group plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Significant issues considered by the Committee during the year The Audit Committee considered the following significant matters of judgement in relation to the accounting judgements contained in the Annual Report and Accounts.
In all cases, papers were presented to the Audit Committee by management, setting out the material matters of accounting estimates and the judgements associated with each item.
A separate paper was presented to the Audit Committee by the Independent Auditor that set out his views on each area of judgement.
The Audit Committee discussed the papers with management and sought the views of the Independent Auditor on each matter, and for each area of judgement concurred with the treatment presented by management and in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Accounting for material contracts The group operates a broad portfolio of contracts and discloses revenue recognition as a critical judgement in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The methodology used for the recognition of contract revenue influences the amount of profit recognised on a contract as well as the inclusion and valuation of contract related assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
The Audit Committee considered papers prepared by management on revenue and profit recognition on contracts: on the accounting treatment applied to the groups larger integrated facilities management contracts, where judgement is required in respect of the percentage of completion of contracted work when recognising revenue and profit: on contract performance and the recognition and valuation of contract related assets and liabilities: and on the recoverability of certain specific contract receivables and the risk associated with their collection.
The Committee concurred that the judgements made in respect of accounting for material contracts were appropriate.
The valuation of goodwill The group has undertaken a number of acquisitions in the past and carries goodwill as an intangible asset on its balance sheet in respect of the businesses acquired see Note 13.
The valuation and impairment review of goodwill is assessed for each individual cash-generating unit CGU and considers the balance sheet value of the goodwill compared to the net present value of the post-tax cash flows that are expected to be generated by that CGU.
This involves an estimation of the future cash flows deriving from each CGU and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which are then applied to the cash flows to calculate a net present value.
The assumptions underpinning the review were considered by the Audit Committee.
The cash flow forecasts used in the review were derived from the most recent CGU budgets which have been reviewed and approved by the Board and the long-term business plans of the group.
The assumptions underpinning the review, and also the sensitivity of the decision on goodwill impairment to changes in key assumptions including the discount factor was considered by management and presented to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the goodwill associated with the groups Healthcare CGU where the financial performance of the business has deteriorated during the year.
The Committee considered a detailed paper from management on the key assumptions underpinning the business plan for the CGU, the sensitivity of the impairment testing to potential changes to both the key assumptions and the discount rate applied therein, and the disclosures to be made in the accounts.
On the basis of this review, the Audit Committee agreed with management that no impairment to goodwill was necessary.
Accounting for the exit from the groups engineering contracting business and from certain Energy Solutions contracts The full trading result of the cyclical mechanical and electrical engineering contracting business has been separately disclosed within Other items see Note 5 due to the significance of its scale to the group, along with the costs of closure of that business.
A number of contract provisions and costs have also been incurred in the year in reducing the groups exposure to design and build construction contracts in the Energy Solutions business.
These have also been separately disclosed as Other items on the face of the income statement.
In forming judgements on the accounting estimates in respect of these businesses throughout the year, the papers presented to the Committee considered the performance of the contracts within each business area, the carrying value of contract related assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the extent of any continuing obligations of the group in respect of those businesses.
The Committee also considered the disclosures made in the accounts in respect of the charges arising from the curtailment of the groups exposure to these businesses.
Mitie Group plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee During the year, the Committee specifically considered the accounting treatment afforded to the groups 30% non-controlling equity interest in O-Gen Plymtrek Limited O-Gen, to which Mitie had also extended subordinated debt.
The Energy Solutions division had a contract to construct and operate a renewable energy plant for O-Gen which had been subject to delays and considerable cost overruns.
At 31 March 2015, the group had no remaining obligations or liabilities in connection with the project to construct the plant or any material exposures arising from its interest in O-Gen that were not provided for in the accounts following the termination of contractual arrangements in March 2015.
During the year, consideration was given to the treatment that should be adopted for the joint venture on consolidation of the groups results, and whether it should be considered to be a subsidiary or an associate.
As a result of a number of factors, and in particular the combination of not having a majority of directors on the Board and having no veto rights over substantive matters, the groups interest in O-Gen was accounted for as an associate and is held at nil value on the balance sheet at 31 March 2015 see Note 5.
The Committee satisfied itself that the accounting treatment and disclosures in respect of the groups exit from these business activities was appropriate.
The presentation of the income statement The financial statements contain all the information and disclosures required by the relevant accounting standards and regulatory obligations that apply to the group.
Mitie has elected to provide some further disclosures and performance measures in order to present its financial results in a way that best demonstrates the performance of its business.
In particular, Mitie adopts headline measures of its performance and separately discloses certain costs and income as Other items in its income statement in order to demonstrate the underlying performance of its business.
The Audit Committee considered the use of these non-statutory measures of performance and related reporting formats and extent of disclosures in order to satisfy itself that the presentation of the groups results is transparent, fairly reflects the activity of the business during the reporting period and enables a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business over time.
In satisfying itself, the Committee had regard to: a the nature of the item and the circumstances leading to recognition: and a the requirement for a fair, balanced and understandable presentation of performance and the need to separately disclose and explain certain items to fully understand and give clarity to the underlying activities and performance of the group.
The role of the Committee external audit Each year the Audit Committee reviews the performance of the Independent Auditor in respect of audit related services and non-audit related services and is committed to ensuring the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the Independent Auditor.
Appointment and tendering of Independent Audit Services The Audit Committee will continue to give consideration to the timing of the next formal tender in light of guidance and changes in regulatory requirements.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of Independent Auditor.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys Independent Auditor since its market listing over 25 years ago.
However, Mitie tendered its full external audit services in 2012 and concluded that Deloitte LLP should be re-appointed as Independent Auditor given its relevant experience in both the PLC environment and the support services sector.
Independent Auditor effectiveness The Audit Committee monitored the conduct and effectiveness of the Independent Auditor through its assessment of: a the experience, expertise and perceptiveness of the auditor: a the planning and execution of the agreed audit plan and quality of audit reports: and a the conduct of the auditor including the Audit Committees experience of interaction with the auditor, which included meetings held in the absence of management.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the independent audit and, in light of the audit tender conducted in 2012, has assessed and recommended to the Board the continued engagement of Deloitte LLP as the Companys Independent Auditor.
Deloitte LLP has expressed willingness to continue in office as our Independent Auditor and accordingly the Board is recommending their re-appointment as Independent Auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
Mitie Group plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Non-Audit Services provided by the Independent Auditor The Audit Committee has approved a Non-Audit Services Policy that ensures the Independent Auditor remains independent and objective throughout the provision of their independent audit services and when formulating their audit opinion.
In order to retain the flexibility of utilising the Independent Auditor to provide non-audit services, the following criteria must also be met.
These are such that the Independent Auditor does not: a audit their own work: a make management decisions for the group: a create a conflict of interest: or a find themselves in the role of advocate for the group.
The Non-Audit Services Policy identifies the various types of non-audit services and determines the analysis to be undertaken along with the level of authority required before the Independent Auditor can be considered to undertake such services.
Further, the policy is consistent with the Financial Reporting Councils ethical standards policy.
When considering the appointment of the Independent Auditor for non-audit services, the following factors are taken into account: a the quality of work provided by the Independent Auditor: a representations provided by the Independent Auditor regarding independence and objectivity, along with internal controls implemented by them when providing non-audit services: a the level of the Independent Auditors understanding of the group: a the nature of the work being performed: and a the commercial and practical circumstances of particular types of work required.
Non-audit services provided to the group during the year included corporate finance services associated with the extension of the group multi-currency revolving credit facility.
The Audit Committee considered reports from both management and the Independent Auditor, none of which raised concerns about auditor independence.
A summary of the fees paid to the Independent Auditor is given in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee confirms that the requirements of the Non-Audit Services Policy have been met throughout the year.
Assurance In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors and the revised section C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board performs a formal annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These activities are monitored at executive level to ensure that control changes are implemented appropriately and that they are effective.
The Head of Internal Audit oversees the application of control environment improvements and attends each Audit Committee meeting to provide regular updates on the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and the results of the internal audit process.
Features of the internal control and risk management systems that ensure accuracy and reliability of financial reporting include: a culture of good governance, integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility: group level policies and procedures to support the business by providing an operational internal control framework: clearly defined responsibilities, delegated in accordance with the groups delegated authorities and authorisation registers: and a group function with a team of specialist resources.
David Jenkins Chairman of the Audit Committee Mitie Group plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
