Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 49 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee report Membership and remit of the Audit Committee The main purpose of the Audit Committee is to review and maintain oversight of Mitchells & Butlers corporate governance, particularly with respect to financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
The Audit Committees responsibilities also include: reviewing the processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and internal control weaknesses: reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Assurance function: and overseeing the relationship with the external and internal auditors.
At the date of the 2015 Annual Report, the Audit Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors: Colin Rutherford Chair, Imelda Walsh and Stewart Gilliland, and two further Non-Executive Colin Rutherford Directors nominated by substantial shareholders, Ron Robson and Chairman of the Eddie Irwin.
In accordance with Code provision C3.1 the Board Audit Committee considers that Colin Rutherford has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies of all of the members of the Audit Committee, including a summary of their experience, appear on page 37.
Introduction from the Audit Committee Chairman I am delighted to present, on behalf of the Board, our Audit Following the appointment of three Independent Non-Executive Committee report for the financial year ended 26 September 2015.
Directors in April and May 2013, Committee members were appointed with effect from 11 July 2013, and revised terms of reference established, Since my appointment, I have been committed to gaining a in order to comply with Code requirements.
The Audit Committee met broad understanding of our Group, its operations and challenges, four times during FY 2015. and of necessity continue to spend valuable time with those key individuals throughout the Group who have collectively provided When appropriate, the Audit Committee augments the skills and an appreciation and rigorous insight into how our Group functions experiences of its members with advice from internal and external audit and reports.
professionals, for example, on matters such as developments in financial reporting.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, The Audit Committee continues to engage formally, regularly by members of the Board, the Company Secretary and General and at an appropriate level of detail with our external auditor, other Counsel, the Group Risk Director and representatives of the external third party advisers as necessary and our Group assurance and risk auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The Audit Committee also meets privately not director.
This has enabled us to gain an appropriate understanding less than twice a year, without any member of management present, of how our auditors and third-party advisers interact with our Group in relation to audit matters, with the external auditor.
assurance and risk management function, to give comprehensive coverage of both the external and internal audit process, and The remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee is set out confidence in both their respective and collective fieldwork in the Report on Directors remuneration on page 63. conclusions.
It is also important to note our Group provision of sufficient resources in ensuring any additional assurance is Summary terms of reference obtained where considered appropriate, in support of this A copy of the Audit Committees terms of reference is publicly overall process.
available within the Investor section of the Companys website: www.
com pdf audit committee terms.
pdf The role of the Audit Committee continues to focus on challenging the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, the robustness of The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any activity our Group assurance and risk management process and in assessing within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires the import of and acting as required upon any and all reported from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director information received from our auditors, third-party advisers and or member of management, and all employees are expected to from our rigorous internal audit function.
co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
The Committee is committed to maintaining an open and The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the constructive dialogue with our shareholders on Audit matters.
Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional Therefore, if you have any comments or questions on any advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience element of the report, please email me, care of Adrian Brannan, and expertise, if it considers this necessary.
The Chair of the Audit Group Risk Director, at adrian.
Committee reports to the subsequent Board meeting on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
Colin Rutherford Chairman of the Audit Committee 50 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee report compliance with the Companys Code of Ethics: corporate governance developments: continued the status of material litigation involving the Group: and reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures including The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: a summary of reports received during FY 2015. review the Companys public statements on internal control, Disclosure of significant issues considered risk management and corporate governance compliance: The Audit Committee has reviewed the key judgements applied in the review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which are described and control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response in the relevant accounting policies and detailed notes to the financial to any such occurrence: statements on pages 74 to 108.
The Audit Committees review included review managements evaluation of any change in internal controls consideration of the following key accounting judgements: over financial reporting: review with management and the auditor, Company financial Property, Plant and Equipment Valuation the assumptions used statements required under UK legislation before submission to by management to value the long leasehold and freehold estate the Board: including estimated fair maintainable trading levels, brand multiples establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the and use of spot valuations to ensure a consistent valuation internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, whose objective methodology is in place.
A number of key judgements are also is to provide independent assurance over the Groups significant applied in calculating the short leasehold impairment such as processes and controls, including those in respect of the Groups trading levels and the use of an appropriate discount rate: key risks: Orchid acquisition accounting key assumptions used in finalising assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired in the transaction resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the auditor, including including considering the valuation of the property acquired review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: by reference to fair maintainable trade and property multiples pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the auditor and and support for the recognition of a deferred tax asset: the fees to be paid for that work together with the monitoring of Taxation tax accounting continues to remain an area of focus, in the external auditors independence: particular, accounting for deferred tax on the property estate and oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by the level of judgement exercised in valuing tax provisions recorded the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or in respect of uncertain tax positions.
The recognition of deferred auditing matters and any confidential, anonymous submission tax assets, taking into consideration the timing and level of future by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting, taxable income, was also assessed: and or auditing matters: and Pension deficit the pension liability is sensitive to the actuarial adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for all corporate assumptions applied in measuring future cash outflows.
The use employees which is consistent with the Companys overall of assumptions such as the discount rate and inflation, which have statement of business ethics.
an impact on the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme, was assessed by the Audit Committee.
Key activities of the Audit Committee Audit matters are reviewed at quarterly Audit Committee meetings Effectiveness of internal audit throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing review.
The Audit Committee commissions reports from external the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
The Audit advisers, the Group Risk Director, or Company management, either Committee meets regularly with management and with the Group Risk after consideration of the Companys major risks or in response to Director and the auditor, to review the effectiveness of internal controls developing issues.
During the year, in order to fulfil the roles and and risk management and receives reports from the Group Risk Director responsibilities of the Audit Committee, the following matters on a quarterly basis.
were considered: The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: and kept under review on a monthly basis, by the Group Risk Director, half year and full year financial results: in order to reflect the changing business needs and to ensure new the scope and cost of the external audit: and emerging risks are considered.
The Audit Committee is informed the auditors half year and full year reports: of any amendments made to the audit plan on a quarterly basis.
reappointment and evaluation of the performance of the auditor, The FY 2015 internal audit plan was developed through a review of including recommendations to the Board for approval by formal risk assessments in conjunction with the Risk Committee and shareholders, on the reappointment of the Companys auditor the Groups Executive Committee together with consideration of the and approval of fees and terms of engagement: Groups key business processes and functions that could be subject to non-audit work carried out by the auditor and trends in the audit.
A similar approach has been employed in relation to the FY 2016 non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees policy to internal audit plan.
ensure the safeguard of audit independence: the co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions: The principal objectives of the internal audit plan for FY 2015 were, the arrangements in respect of Group Assurance including its and remain for FY 2016: resourcing, external support, the scope of the annual internal audit plan for FY 2015 regarding the level of achievement and to provide confidence that existing and emerging key risks are the scope of the internal audit plan for FY 2016: being managed effectively: periodic internal control and assurance reports from to confirm that controls over core business functions and processes Group Assurance: are operating as intended core assurance : and the Groups risk management framework for the identification to confirm that major projects and significant business change and control of major risks, its risk and assurance mitigation plan programmes are being adequately controlled.
and the annual assessment of control effectiveness: Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 51 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 During FY 2015, 18 audit reports were issued by the Group Assurance External auditors independence function and reviewed by the Board or the Audit Committee.
Internal The external auditors should not provide non-audit services where audit recommendations are closely monitored through to closure it might impair their independence or objectivity to do so.
The Audit via a web-based recommendation tracking system, introduced in Committee has established a policy to safeguard the independence FY 2013, which has improved the overall monitoring of internal audit and objectivity of the Groups auditor as follows: recommendations to ensure these are successfully implemented in a timely manner.
A summary of the status of the implementation of The following services have been pre-approved by the Audit internal audit recommendations is made monthly to the Executive Committee provided that the fee for the individual project is less than Committee and quarterly to the Audit Committee.
50% of the audit fee, and in total for the year is less than the audit fee: Risk management framework audit related services, including work related to the annual Group As disclosed in the Risk and uncertainties section on pages 18 to 21 financial statements, subsidiary audits and statutory accounts: and the Risk Committee continues to meet on a regular basis to review certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning the key risks facing the business.
The Risk Committee met on four and tax advice.
Membership of the Risk Committee, which includes representation from each of the key business functions, Acquisition and vendor due-diligence may only be provided if it is is detailed below: specifically approved by the Committee on a case by case basis in advance of the engagement commencing.
Any other work for which Company Secretary and General Counsel Chairman management wishes to utilise the external auditor must be approved Group Finance Director as follows: Chief Executive Group HR Director services with fees less than 50,000 may be approved by the Director of Business Change & Technology Finance Director: and Group Risk Director engagements with fees of over 50,000 may be approved by the Audit Committee or its Chair.
Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed on a quarterly basis in terms of their likelihood and impact, within the Groups Key Risk Heat The Audit Committee remains confident that the objectivity and Map, in conjunction with associated risk mitigation plans.
In addition, independence of the auditor are not in any way impaired by reason the Risk Committees review includes an assessment of the material of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
relevance of emerging risks and the continued relevance of previously identified risks.
Actions arising from Risk Committee meetings are External audit annual assessment followed up by the Group Risk Director.
The Audit Committee reviews The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, the Risk Committee minutes, in addition to a review of the Groups resources and independence of the Groups auditor and the overall Key Risk Heat Map quarterly.
effectiveness of the audit process.
The Finance Director, Company Secretary and General Counsel, Audit Committee Chairman and Group Confidential reporting Risk Director meet with the auditor to discuss the audit and any key The Groups whistleblowing policy enables staff, in confidence, to raise issues included on the Audit Committees agenda during the year.
concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters and to do so without fear of reprisal.
Details of the policy are set out Fair, balanced and understandable statement in the Companys Code of Ethics.
The Audit Committee receives One of the key governance requirements of a Groups financial quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents and remains satisfied statements is for the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and that the procedures in place are satisfactory to enable independent understandable.
Therefore, upon review of the financial statements, investigation and follow up action of all matters reported.
No major the Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied with the overall issues have been reported in FY 2015 major issues being defined for fairness, balance and clarity of the Annual Report, which is this purpose as matters having a financial impact greater than 100k.
underpinned by the following: External auditor appointment formal minutes of the year end working group: Deloitte LLP was appointed as the auditor in 2011, following a clear guidance issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent formal tender process.
The Audit Committee has considered the approach: and new guidance in relation to rotation including the proposed transition formal review processes at all levels to ensure the Annual Report rules which will be considered when recommending the appointment is factually correct.
of the auditor in future years.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditor is working well and is satisfied with its Approved by the Board effectiveness and has not considered it necessary to require Deloitte LLP to re-tender for the external audit work.
There are no contractual Colin Rutherford obligations restricting the Companys choice of auditor.
Following its Chairman of the Audit Committee appointment as auditor, Deloitte LLP was replaced in respect of the 23 November 2015 provision of internal audit services by  LLP.
