Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 43 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance statement The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business and details are set out in this statement of the Companys corporate governance procedures and application of the principles of the Code.
There are, however, a small number of areas where, for reasons specifically related to the Company, the detailed provisions of the Code were not fully Corporate governance statement complied with.
These areas are kept under regular review.
A fundamental The Board is responsible for ensuring that the activities of aspect of the Code is that it contains best practice recommendations in the Mitchells & Butlers Group and its various businesses are relation to corporate governance yet acknowledges that, in individual conducted in compliance with the law, regulatory requirements cases, these will not all necessarily be appropriate for particular and rules, good practices, ethically and with appropriate and companies.
Accordingly, the Code specifically recognises the concept proper governance and standards.
This includes reviewing of Comply or Explain in relation to divergences from the Code.
internal controls, ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience represented on the Board and compliance Compliance with the Code with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Except for the matters which are explained below in line with the which is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and which Comply or Explain concept, the Company complied fully with the is available at www.
uk, and maintaining appropriate principles and provisions of the Code throughout the financial year relations with shareholders.
in respect of which this statement is prepared and continues to do so as at the date of this statement.
A new edition of the Code was published in September 2014 and applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October Explanation for non-compliance with parts of the Code 2014.
As our 2015 reporting period began before this date, we During the year, there were five divergences from full compliance are continuing to report against the 2012 edition of the Code, with the Code as set out below by reference to specific paragraphs although the Board has adopted some of the new provisions in the Code: in the revised code earlier than required.
4.1 Senior Independent Director T he latest financial information for Mitchells & Butlers and its group of The role of Senior Independent Director remained vacant until the companies is included in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts of which this corporate governance statement forms part and which are available online at: appointment of Stewart Gilliland in February 2015.
com investors is now compliant with this provision.
In this role, during the year Mr Gilliland conducted, in conjunction with the other two independent This corporate governance statement sets out our Non-Executive Directors, an evaluation of the Chairmans performance report to shareholders on the status of our corporate and reported back on the principal conclusions of that evaluation governance arrangements.
1.2 Composition of the Board and B.
2.1, C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 Constitution of Committees The Board was not constituted in full compliance with the Code, as it had three independent Non-Executive Directors, out of a total of six Non-Executive Directors not including the Chairman for this purpose, and two Executive Directors.
1.2, which requires that at least half of the Board be made up of independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman, was not complied with.
This also had consequential implications on the composition of the standing Board Committees.
Bob Ivell While the Board does not comply fully with the requirement for at Chairman least half of its members to be independent, it recognises and values the presence of representatives of its major shareholders on the Board and welcomes the interest shown by them in the Company as a whole.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board will continue to work closely with the representatives of its I am delighted to be able to report that the Board considers that the major shareholders to further the interests of the Company.
Company has complied throughout the year ended 26 September 2015 with all the provisions and best practice guidance of the Code except The possibility of appointing a further independent Non-Executive those in respect of Board composition, constitution of the Board Director remains a matter for the Nomination Committee to review Committees and the appointment of a Senior Independent Director, and is considered regularly.
It has also been addressed in the 2015 although this latter point was addressed in February 2015 when  Board Effectiveness Review.
Further details Stewart Gilliland was confirmed as Senior Independent Director are given on page 48.
Throughout FY 2015, the Company had and a position he continues to hold.
This appointment removed that continues to have fully functioning Nomination, Audit and Remuneration issue as a matter of non-compliance.
This corporate governance Committees as required by the Code.
The Committees are not fully statement addresses the small number of areas where, for reasons compliant with the relevant provisions of paragraphs B.
2.1, C. 3.1 and specific to Mitchells & Butlers, there are divergences from the D. 2.1 of the Code in that they include the presence of representatives Code as described below.
Nevertheless, the Board values the contribution of those shareholder representatives on those Committees, does not The Audit Committee report and Nomination Committee report consider this to be an impediment to good governance and looks which are set out on pages 49 to 51 and 45 and 46 respectively of the forward to continuing to work with them on matters affecting the Annual Report also form part of this corporate governance statement Group and its activities in the future.
and they should all be considered together.
The information required by Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR Bob Ivell 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 49 to 51.
The Chairman information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this corporate governance statement, other than that required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the Directors report on pages 38 to 41.
44 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance statement Attendance levels at Board and Committee meetings continued Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Directors who served during the year Bob Ivell 11 11 4 4 2 2 Board composition 1 Alistair Darby 10 11 Throughout the year, the Board comprised nine Directors.
A table listing Stewart Gilliland 11 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 the composition of the Board during the year is set out opposite.
Eddie Irwin 11 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 Tim Jones 11 11 The Board 2 Douglas McMahon 10 11 The Board is responsible to all stakeholders, including its shareholders, 3 Ron Robson 10 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group.
Colin Rutherford 11 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 It approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
Imelda Walsh 11 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance of past investments and maintains an overview and control of the Groups An additional Remuneration Committee meeting was held in September 2015 which was operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall outside the normal meeting schedule noted above.
All members attended and further details are set out on page 62. system of internal controls, governance and compliance and ensures Where a Director was prevented from attending a meeting due to travel difficulties or that the necessary financial, technical and human resources are in place clashes with other business commitments, in each case the Director concerned provided for the Company to meet its objectives.
comments on the matters to be considered to the Chairman, another Director or the Company Secretary.
During FY 2015 there were 11 scheduled Board meetings.
M r Darby did not attend the final Board meeting of the year on 25 September 2015 four meetings of the Audit Committee, four meetings of the Remuneration as it occurred after the Company had announced on 22 September 2015 that he would Committee and two meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The table be stepping down from the Board on 26 September 2015.
M r McMahon did not attend one Board meeting during the year but Mr Robson, the opposite shows attendance levels at the Board and Committee meetings other representative to the Board nominated by Piedmont Inc. did attend that meeting.
held during the year: the numbers in brackets confirm how many meetings 3.
Mr Robson did not attend one Board meeting during the year but Mr McMahon, the each Director was eligible to attend during the year.
other representative to the Board nominated by Piedmont Inc. did attend that meeting.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting whether of the Directors Board or one of its Committees, they were provided with all the papers The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues 26 September 2015: arising direct with the Chairman of the Board or Chair of the relevant Date Date of Committee.
In addition, the Board members meet more informally appointed change of role approximately five times a year and the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year Directors meet without the Executive Directors twice a year.
Bob Ivell Independent Non- 09 05 11 14 07 11 1 Executive Director There are 10 Board meetings currently planned for FY 2016.
1 Interim Chairman 14 07 11 26 10 11 Executive Chairman 26 10 11 12 11 12 The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good Non-Executive 12 11 12 information flows to the Board and between senior management and Chairman the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is responsible, 2 Alistair Darby Chief Executive 08 10 12 26 09 15 through the Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and for assisting the Directors with their professional Stewart Gilliland Independent 23 05 13 development.
This includes regular corporate governance and business Non-Executive Director issues updates, as well as the use of operational site visits and the Senior Independent 02 02 15 provision of external courses where required.
The Company Secretary Director facilitates a comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors, 3 Eddie Irwin Non-Executive Director 21 03 12 tailored to individual requirements and including guidance on the Tim Jones Finance Director 18 10 10 requirements of, and Directors duties in connection with, the Code and 4 Douglas McMahon Non-Executive Director 15 10 10 the Companies Act 2006 as well as other relevant legislation.
In FY 2015, 4 Ron Robson Non-Executive Director 22 01 10 the Company Secretary also co-ordinated the externally facilitated Deputy Chairman 14 07 11 performance evaluation of the Board, details of the output of which are Colin Rutherford Independent 22 04 13 set out at page 48.
The appointment and removal of the Company Non-Executive Director Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Imelda Walsh Independent 22 04 13 Non-Executive Director 1.
Independent while in the role specified.
Nominated shareholder representative of Elpida Group Limited.
Nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. On 27 September 2015, Phil Urban was appointed to the Board and as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
On 13 November 2015, Douglas McMahon stepped down from the Board and Josh Levy was appointed to the Board.
Josh Levy is a nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc.
Throughout the year, and as at the date of this statement, the Board was made up of eight male and one female members.
The Executive Directors have service contracts which are summarised on page 60.
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
Copies of the respective service contracts Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 45 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 or letters of appointment of all the Board are on the Companys website.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with Non-Executive In addition, they are available for inspection at the registered office of the Directors, without the Chairman present, at least annually, and Company during normal business hours and at the place of the Annual conducts the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
General Meeting from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of Further details of this review can be found on page 48. the meeting.
Non-Executive Directors All the Companys Directors are required to stand for annual re-election The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors on its Board.
or, in the case of Philip Urban and Josh Levy, election for the first time Bob Ivell was considered to be independent upon his appointment on following their appointment at the Companys Annual General Meeting 9 May 2011 in that he was free from any business or other relationship in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Their with the Company which could materially influence his judgement and biographical details as at 23 November 2015 are set out on page 37, he continues to represent a strong source of advice and independent including their main commitments outside the Company.
Since his appointment as Chairman on 14 July 2011 the information is set out below.
independence test, as set out in the Code, is no longer applicable to his current position.
The Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external Non-Executive Director appointment with the Boards prior approval Ron Robson and Douglas McMahon were appointed to the and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Board as representatives of the Companys largest shareholder, Piedmont Inc. and were therefore not regarded as independent in Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive accordance with the Code Their role was examined and commented In accordance with provision A.
2.1 of the Code, the roles of Chairman on in the recent external Board evaluation, further details of which and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
Douglas McMahon stepped down from the Board on 13 November 2015, and was replaced by Josh Levy, who The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief is also a nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. Executive are clearly established and set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
In particular, it has been agreed in writing that the Eddie Irwin has been appointed to the Board as a representative of the Chairman shall be responsible for running the Board and shall provide Companys second largest shareholder, Elpida Group Limited and is advice and assistance to the Chief Executive.
He also chairs the therefore not regarded as independent in accordance with the Code.
Nomination Committee, is a member of the Remuneration Committee and attends, by invitation, meetings of the Audit Committee.
There are currently three independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board: Stewart Gilliland, Colin Rutherford and Imelda Walsh.
It is also agreed in writing that the Chief Executive has responsibility for all aspects of the Groups overall commercial, operational Other than their fees, and reimbursement of taxable expenses which and strategic development.
He chairs the Executive Committee are disclosed on page 63, the Non-Executive Directors received no details of which appear on page 46 and attends the Nomination, remuneration from the Company during the year.
Remuneration and Audit Committee by invitation, not necessarily for the entirety of such meetings depending upon the subject matter.
When Non-Executive Directors are considered for appointment, the Board takes into account their other responsibilities in assessing whether All other Executive Directors currently just the Finance Director and all they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
other members of the Executive Committee report to the Chief Executive.
Board information and training Chairman All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers circulated The Chairman should, on appointment, meet the independence in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at those meetings, in criteria set out in provision B.
Bob Ivell met these addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Their understanding independence criteria on appointment.
of the Groups business is enhanced by business specific presentations and operational visits to the Groups businesses.
Separate strategy Bob Ivell was appointed to the role of Executive Chairman on meetings and meetings with senior Executives are also held throughout 26 October 2011 on the departure of the then Chief Executive and the year.
reverted to the role of Non-Executive Chairman on 12 November 2012.
The training needs of Directors are formally considered on an annual The Chairman ensures that appropriate communication is maintained basis and are also monitored throughout the year with appropriate with shareholders.
He ensures that all Directors are fully informed of training being provided as required.
matters relevant to their roles.
Committees Chief Executive Each Board Committee has written terms of reference approved Phil Urban was appointed Chief Executive on 27 September 2015 by the Board, which are available on the Companys website.
following the resignation on 26 September 2015 of Alistair Darby who had held the position of Chief Executive from 8 October 2012.
Audit Committee Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year are As indicated above, the Chief Executive has responsibility for included in the Audit Committee report on pages 49 to 51 which implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive is incorporated by reference into this statement.
Remuneration Committee Senior Independent Director Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during Stewart Gilliland was appointed to the role of Senior Independent the year are included in the Report on Directors remuneration on Director on 2 February 2015. pages 52 to 69.
The Senior Independent Director supports the Chairman in the Nomination Committee delivery of the Boards objectives and ensures that the views of all The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the major shareholders and stakeholders are conveyed to the Board.
approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
Stewart Gilliland is available to all shareholders should they have It is also responsible for succession planning and reviewing the any concerns if the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive output of the Board effectiveness review.
or Finance Director have failed to resolve them, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
46 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance statement The following were members of the Nomination Committee during the year: continued Member at Appointment date 26 09 15 Bob Ivell Chair 11 07 13 Y During the year, the Nomination Committee considered the succession to Stewart Gilliland 11 07 13 Y the role of Chief Executive which was announced on 22 September 2015 Eddie Irwin 11 07 13 Y and took effect on 27 September 2015.
The Nomination Committee also Ron Robson 11 07 13 Y considered the composition of the Board and, following the year end, has Colin Rutherford 11 07 13 Y assessed the outcome of the external Boards effectiveness review which Imelda Walsh 11 07 13 Y was carried out during the financial year now reported on.
During the year, the Company did not comply with provision The Nomination Committee agrees the importance of having diversity B.
2.1 of the Code because, as explained earlier in this statement, on the Board, including female representation and individuals with the Nomination Committee was not comprised of a majority of different experiences, skill sets and expertise, so as to maintain an independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is not fully appropriate balance within the Company and on the Board.
compliant in that it includes the presence of representatives of major shareholders.
Board Diversity Policy During 2015 the Nomination Committee recommended, and the Board Nevertheless, for the reasons already stated, the Board does not approved, a Board Diversity Policy.
The key statement and objectives consider this to be an impediment to good governance and looks of that policy are as follows: forward to continuing to work constructively with the representatives nominated by its major shareholders in relation to all the matters and Statement: issues to be addressed by the Nomination Committee and the Board The Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity of skills, in connection with the Company in the future.
background, knowledge, international and industry experience, and gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken into consideration Executive Committee when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Notwithstanding The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, the foregoing, all Board appointments will always be made on merit.
consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior Executives, namely Catriona Kempston Marketing Director, Gary John Group Objectives: Property Director, Susan Martindale Group HR Director and Greg The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and McMahon Company Secretary and General Counsel.
experience to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship.
All Board appointments will be made on merit while taking into The Executive Committee meets at least every four weeks and has account individual competence, skills and expertise measured day-to-day responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
against identified objective criteria including consideration It develops the Groups strategy and annual revenue and capital of diversity.
It reviews and recommends to the Board The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who any significant investment proposals.
This Committee monitors the are sufficiently experienced and independent of character financial and operational performance of the Group and allocates and judgement.
resources within the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers The Nomination Committee will discuss and agree measurable employment issues, ensures the Group has an appropriate pool of objectives for achieving diversity on the Board with due regard talent and develops senior management manpower planning and being given to the recommendations set out in the Davies Report succession plans.
The actions arising from the Executive Committee and the UK Corporate Governance Code, provision B.
These are supplied to the Board for information in order that Board members will be reviewed on an annual basis.
can keep abreast of operational developments.
Progress against the policy: Phil Urban has ultimate responsibility for employment related issues and The Board continues to monitor progress against this policy.
In he also oversees matters relating to human rights including the future terms of Board diversity, the appointment of Imelda Walsh in 2013 implementation of the Modern Slavery Act throughout the Group.
brought the proportion of women on the Board to 11%.
Any future appointments will always be made on merit and will continue to take General Purposes Committee into account diversity, not only in terms of gender, but also in terms of The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive the appropriate mix of skills and experience.
Further details regarding Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer future appointments to be made to the Board are detailed in the from an agreed and restricted list of senior Executives.
It is always chaired 2015 external Board Evaluation Report referred to on page 48. by an Executive Director.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been Details of the Mitchells & Butlers Diversity Policy, which applies to agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
diversity in relation to employees of Mitchells & Butlers plc, can be found in the corporate social responsibility section on pages 26 to 30.
Treasury Committee The treasury operations of the Mitchells & Butlers Group are operated A detailed description of the duties of the Nomination Committee on a centralised basis under the control of the Group Treasury is set out within its terms of reference which can be viewed at department.
Although not a formal Board Committee, the Treasury www.
com investors businessconduct boardcommittees Committee, which reports to the Finance Director but is subject to oversight from the Audit Committee and, ultimately, the Board, has day-to-day responsibility for: Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 47 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 liquidity management: Directors training includes environmental, social and governance investment of surplus cash: ESG matters and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring funding, cash and banking arrangements: that Directors are made aware of and receive regular training in respect interest rate and currency risk management: of these important areas.
The Chief Executive, Phil Urban, is ultimately guarantees, bonds, indemnities and any financial encumbrances responsible for ESG matters.
The Board is responsible for the Companys including charges on assets: and internal risk management system, in respect of which more details can relationships with Banks and other market counterparties be found in the Risks and uncertainties section of this report, and in such as credit rating agencies.
the following section of this statement.
The Treasury Committee also works closely with the financial Internal control and risk management accounting department to review the impact of changes in relevant The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal accounting practices and to ensure that treasury activities are control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
disclosed appropriately in the Companys accounts.
In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code for the year under review The Board delegates the monitoring of treasury activity and and to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Such procedures compliance to the Treasury Committee.
It is responsible for monitoring are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
the effectiveness of treasury policies and making proposals for any changes to policies or in respect of the utilisation of new instruments.
The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management The approval of the Board, or a designated committee thereof, systems include: is required for any such proposals.
Processes, including monitoring by the Board, in respect of: Independent advice Members of the Board may take independent professional advice i. financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, in the furtherance of their duties and the Board has agreed a formal accounting and reporting framework: process for such advice to be made available.
strategic plan achievement: also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary iii.
capital investment and asset management performance, with and General Counsel, the Companys legal and other professional detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews: and advisers and its external auditor.
The terms of engagement of the iv.
consumer insight data and actions to assess the evolution of brands Companys external advisers and its external auditor are regularly and formats to ensure that they continue to be appealing and reviewed by the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
relevant to the Groups guests.
Code of Ethics An overall governance framework including: The Company has implemented business conduct guidelines describing the standards of behaviour expected from those working i. clearly defined delegations of authority and reporting lines: for the Company in the form of a code of ethics the Ethics Code.
a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that employees Its aim is to promote honest and ethical conduct throughout our are required to follow: and business.
The Ethics Code requires: iii.
the Groups Ethics Code, in respect of which an annual confirmation of compliance is sought from all corporate employees.
compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that apply to the Company and its officers including the Bribery Act 2010: The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Executive Committee, the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest which assists the Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee between internal and external, personal and professional in managing the processes for identifying, evaluating, monitoring relationships: and and mitigating risks.
The Risk Committee, which met four times that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved in advance during FY 2015, is chaired by the Company Secretary and General by appropriate senior management, with a presumption against Counsel and comprises Executive Committee members and other its acceptance.
members of senior management from a cross-section of functions.
Its primary responsibilities are to: The Company takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and has developed an extensive Bribery Policy.
The Ethics Code requires i. advise the Executive Committee on the Companys overall risk employees to comply with the Bribery Policy.
appetite and risk strategy, taking account of the current and prospective operating, legal, macroeconomic and financial The Company also offers an independently administered, confidential environments: whistleblowing hotline for any employee wishing to report any concern ii.
advise the Executive Committee on the current and emerging risk that they feel would be inappropriate to raise with their line manager.
exposures of the Company in the context of the overall risk appetite All whistleblowing allegations are reported to and considered by the and risk strategy: Executive Committee and a summary report with details of any major iii.
promote the management of risk throughout the organisation: concerns is supplied to, and considered by, the Audit Committee at iv.
review and monitor the Companys capability and processes to each meeting.
identify and manage risks: v. consider the identified key risks faced by the Company and The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical new and emerging risks and consider the adequacy of mitigation matters concerning the Company through regular reports to the Board plans in respect of such risks: and and presentations to the Board at its strategy meetings.
where mitigation plans are inadequate, recommend noted the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act in relation to supply improvement actions.
chain management and will be taking steps during FY 2016 to comply with its disclosure requirements by the end of that financial year.
48 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance statement On a more informal basis, the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly report to the Board the views of larger shareholders continued about the Company, and the other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet shareholders on request and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with larger shareholders.
During the year the Chairman, The Groups risks identified by the processes that are managed by accompanied by the Head of Investor Relations, held governance the Risk Committee are described in Risks and uncertainties on meetings with two institutional investors and also offered a series pages 18 to 21. of telephone discussions relating to Company matters.
Examination of business processes on a risk basis including reports The AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders, many of from the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, which whom are also guests in our pubs, bars and restaurants.
All proxy reports directly to the Audit Committee.
votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
The Group also has in place systems, including policies and procedures, for exercising control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting Board effectiveness evaluation and Chairmans evaluation and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems, policies and appraisal and procedures: In line with the best practice recommendations of the Code, in FY 2014 we committed to carrying out an externally facilitated review of the govern the maintenance of accounting records that, in reasonable Boards effectiveness.
During FY 2015, the Board carried out an detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions:  self-evaluation review.
This was facilitated by require reported information to be reviewed and reconciled, Mrs Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation.
The conclusions of with monitoring by the Audit Committee and Board: and that review were reported on to the Board by the facilitator.
In addition, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as the Chairman received individual reports from the facilitator as to the necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in contribution and effectiveness of each of the Board members, all of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS whom participated in the review.
The review also included consultation or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, as appropriate.
with certain senior managers and external advisers in order to ensure a coherent and comprehensive view could be formed.
In accordance with the Code, during the year the Audit Committee completed and reported to the Board its conclusions in respect of The Board noted the observations made as a consequence of the its annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management review.
In particular, it was reported that the Board is, overall, working and internal control systems, including financial, operational and effectively and has certainly improved as a functioning Board over compliance controls.
The system of internal control is designed to recent years, particularly as a consequence of the appointment of manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business credible, independent Non-Executive Directors and, more recently, objectives and, as such, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute the identification and nomination of a Senior Independent Director.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, in It was also noted that the Board composition, although of an unusual the opinion of the Audit Committee, the review did not indicate that structure due to the representation of the two largest shareholders, the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and to the extent that nonetheless works well.
weaknesses in internal controls were identified, the Audit Committee confirmed that necessary remedial action plans were in place.
The The Board considered carefully the recommendations which arose from Audit Committee is not aware of any change to this status up to the that review.
Those recommendations related to suggested improvements date of approval of this Annual Report.
to some of the Board meeting processes which have now been implemented, suggested improvements to the Boards succession With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure and strategic planning processes and the recruitment of a further against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews independent Non-Executive Director.
both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys with guidance from an external independent broker, bearing in mind the As indicated earlier in this statement, the Company appointed Stewart availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude Gilliland to the role of Senior Independent Director on 2 February 2015. of the risks involved.
During the financial year, the Company carried Accordingly, the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance was out a full tender process in respect of its insurance brokerage adviser conducted by Stewart Gilliland with the independent Non-Executive and, following the appointment of a new broker, made a full market Directors without the Chairman present and the conclusions fed back presentation to new and existing insurers.
The output of that to the Chairman.
The principal conclusions of that review were that process was the development and implementation of a new Mr Ivells performance remains highly constructive and that the level insurance programme with current market coverage levels of Mr Ivells involvement was of benefit to the Company noting that with high quality insurers.
the relationship between the Chairman and CEO is critical.
Annual reviews of the Chairmans performance will continue to be conducted Shareholder relations as required by the Code.
Further, as indicated above, the Board The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Effectiveness Review included an assessment of the Chairman performance and activities of the Company.
The Company regularly and his fulfilment of his role.
updates the market on its financial performance, at the half year and full year results in May and November respectively, and by way of Going concern other announcements as required.
The content of these updates The Directors statement as to the status of the Company as a going is available by webcast on the Companys website, together with concern can be found on page 40. general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its larger shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the basis of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
