Strategic Report Governance Financial Remuneration Policy Review During 2014 the executive remuneration policy was reviewed.
Mities principal shareholders were consulted prior to finalising the policy and, at the end of the process, we were pleased that a strong majority of shareholders consulted were supportive of the proposals.
The review is now complete and a revised policy designed to operate for the next three years will be presented at the AGM in July.
Further details are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report which can be found on pages 57 to 78.
Roger Matthews Chairman The Board Board members The members of the Board and their accompanying biographies are set out on pages 42 and 43.
All Directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and, where possible, attend all Board meetings and the AGM.
Any time commitment matters are addressed by the Chairman with the Director concerned.
Chairman Roger Matthews Board members executive Ruby McGregor-Smith Suzanne Baxter Bill Robson until 31 July 2014 Board members non-executive David Jenkins Crawford Gillies Larry Hirst Jack Boyer Key purpose of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the sustainable long term success of the Company and provides leadership and direction to management.
Accordingly, the Board reviews and agrees the strategy for the group, proposed by the Executive Directors, on an annual basis and reviews certain aspects of the strategy at Board meetings during the year.
In setting the strategy, the Board takes account of matters such as: market trends: competitive environment: private public sector approach: international aspects of the business and opportunities: finance: people and talent: and the Mitie Model, ensuring at all times that sufficient consideration is given to risk and internal controls.
Key responsibilities There are key matters and responsibilities that are set aside to be dealt with exclusively by the Board.
These include: a strategy including setting group strategies and objectives: a financial reporting including approving the groups Half-Yearly and Annual Report and Accounts, and approving business plans and budgets and monitoring performance against them: a internal controls including management of the groups risk profile: a acquisitions, disposals and contracts including approving material acquisitions, disposals and business start-ups including any material transactions outside of the normal course of business : a corporate governance matters including appointing and removing the Chairman, Directors and Company Secretary: a delegation of authority including the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive: and a communication including making arrangements for dialogue with shareholders and canvassing shareholder opinion.
The Board recognises its overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control, which is designed to safeguard assets and ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
Within a framework set by and with oversight of Group Finance, the implementation of the system of internal control is managed by the leadership of each division.
The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of these controls on behalf of the Board, through Internal Audit and the Group Enterprise Risk framework.
The Directors are mindful of their legal duties to act in the way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for its shareholders, having regard also to other stakeholders.
Mitie Group plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Board Frequency of Board meetings During the year ended 31 March 2015, there were six scheduled Board meetings.
Additional unscheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the review and approval of material transactions, key contracts, acquisitions and issues relating to shares and other administrative matters.
Attendance Number of scheduled Board meetings held in the year: 6 Roger Matthews 6 Ruby McGregor-Smith 6 Suzanne Baxter 6 Bill Robson 2 of 2 Crawford Gillies 6 Larry Hirst 6 David Jenkins 6 Jack Boyer 6 Note: Bill Robson retired from the Board on 31 July 2014.
Division of responsibilities of our Chairman and Chief Executive Our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined and separate roles divided between running the Board on the one hand, and the business on the other, whilst maintaining a close working relationship.
They have an open dialogue and meet regularly between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of business issues, and facilitate efficient decision making.
The document setting out this division of responsibilities was updated during the year and is available on the website at http: www.
The Chairman The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director and is responsible for running the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, including the regularity and frequency of meetings.
He liaises with the Company Secretary to set Board agendas, taking into account the issues and concerns of all Board members.
Key matters covered at each Board meeting include: strategy, enterprise risk management, financial and management reporting, investor relations, corporate governance, and operating business reviews, with updates received from each Committee Chair.
The Chairman manages the Board to ensure sufficient time is allocated to promote healthy discussion and open debate, supported by the right level and quality of information to assist the Board in reaching its decisions.
He facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and encourages active engagement by all members of the Board.
He ensures constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and that the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are aware of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the Board addresses major challenges faced by Mitie and for the effective performance of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout the year and will be available at the AGM.
The Chief Executive The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation and management of the group and its business within the authorities delegated to her by the Board.
She is responsible for developing group objectives and strategy, having regard to the groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The Chief Executives remit includes effectively implementing strategy following approval of the strategic and financial plan by the Board, proposing investment in new business and geographical areas, and ensuring at all times that the groups risk profile is appropriately considered.
She ensures the effective implementation of Board decisions, and regularly reviews the operational performance and strategic direction of the groups business.
She leads the Executive Directors and senior management team in the day-to-day running of the groups business under clear delegation of authority from the Board and manages the appropriate disclosure of information to the Board and to shareholders.
The Chief Executive maintains regular dialogue with the Chairman on all important Company matters and together they provide coherent leadership of the group.
The Executive Directors Executive Directors oversee the entire operations of the group and in addition have specific responsibility for managing their own area of the business.
The Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors review the proposals for the strategic direction of the group, constructively challenging and probing proposals presented by the Executive Directors, based on their breadth of knowledge, experience and individual skills, and contributing to the formulation and development of strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors monitor high level corporate reporting and satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information and the operation of key controls.
The Non-Executive Directors Mitie Group plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial have a responsibility to exercise their independent skill and judgement in carrying out their duties, and meet without the Executive Directors present during the year.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at Mities registered office, Mities head office in Bristol, and at the AGM.
The Senior Independent Director The role of the Senior Independent Director is to make himself available to shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, or for which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
The Senior Independent Director in particular reviews information on major shareholders and financial analysis to obtain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
Evaluation of the performance of the Board and the Committees During the year the Board internally reviewed its performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The process was based upon the completion of an appropriately designed questionnaire and one-to-one meetings or telephone calls where required between the Chairman and individual Directors.
Key areas addressed were the Boards composition balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Company, and diversity, including gender, clarity of strategy, frequency of Board and Committee meetings, proficiency and quality of information provided, and follow-through on the prior Board evaluation.
Evaluation of the Chairman was conducted by the Senior Independent Director.
The conclusions and recommendations of the review were shared with the Board at the meeting in May 2015.
The Board is satisfied as to its effectiveness and that of its Committees and Directors.
In addition to reviewing performance and governance, the Board will continue to focus on its composition and the balance of its skills and experience.
The Board will receive regular updates and management presentations during the year on the strategic development and operational and financial performance of the group.
The Board was assisted by independent consultants, Condign Board Consulting, during the previous financial year and will solicit external support again in the coming two years in line with the requirements of the Code.
Director re-election The performance of each Director has been reviewed as part of the annual board evaluation process and the Board is satisfied that they continue to operate effectively and demonstrate clear commitment to their roles.
All Directors other than Crawford Gillies will submit themselves for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Further details on this can be found on page 44 Board composition.
The Director Induction process All Directors receive a personally tailored induction to Mitie which includes meetings with key senior managers, and visits to divisional offices and key client sites.
They receive an information pack, which includes: copies of Mities Articles of Association: the latest Annual Report and Accounts: the Committee terms of reference and copies of recent Board and Committee minutes: and supporting papers.
Directors are given access to the online board portal which, as well as holding all Board reports and Board minutes, has a reading room containing the Board Handbook detailing essential information about: the Company: Board and Committee terms of reference: Directors statutory duties: governance and regulatory guidelines: the groups approved delegated authorities: and an overview of the groups insurance arrangements.
The Handbook is reviewed and updated regularly.
Additional briefing notes are circulated where appropriate on matters such as changes in the regulatory and governance environment.
Our Board accountability and assurance explained Risk management approach The Board understands that effective risk management and a sound system of internal control is central to the achievement of the groups business strategy of delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
The Board, supported by the Audit Committee, has continued to drive improvements to better understand the nature of the risks the group faces as it continues to grow in size, shape and complexity.
The group will continue to focus on embedding risk management across all areas of the business to ensure the continued identification of risks to, and opportunities supporting, the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Risk management processes It is recognised that a flexible and adaptable approach to risk management is required to meet the demands of the dynamic and quickly evolving environment in which the group operates.
Processes are in place to ensure that each operating division and support function identifies and assesses the risks to achieving its objectives, the associated mitigation measures and the potential impact of the crystallisation of those risks.
This process was reviewed during the year and refocused to ensure clarity of requirements were understood via formal risk management workshops to provide consistency in risk identification and assessment.
Responsibility for specific areas of risk flows through the business, with delegated accountability and responsibility assigned to specific risk owners.
The group risk profile is reviewed by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director in advance of review and approval by the Audit Committee and the Board.
This information is captured in risk registers at business, divisional and functional level, which are subsequently consolidated into strategic, operational, financial and regulatory risk categories within an overall group risk register that is maintained by the Enterprise Risk function.
Mitie Group plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Board Risk identification and assessment Both internal and external perspectives are taken into account when considering the risks that pose a threat to the achievement of the groups strategy to ensure a thorough identification process occurs.
The external view will include the economic position, political factors, and sector and geographical risks.
The internal view takes into account factors including our changing and developing business profile, operational processes, technology and people.
Identified risks are then assessed using standard impact and likelihood ratings to quantify the risk to the achievement of business objectives.
This approach is consistent across all our operations and support functions and provides executive management and the Board with the ability to prioritise resources to manage risk.
Independent challenge and oversight of the risks identified within the divisional and functional risk registers is provided by the Enterprise Risk function and divisional managers, to ensure meaningful and consistent results are achieved.
Risk mitigation The control and mitigation element of our risk management process continues to be reviewed and enhanced to ensure the provision of more robust information on the effectiveness of the identified controls in place.
Each identified risk has a defined control owner who is responsible for developing a plan to mitigate the risk.
Assessment of the effectiveness of this control environment is undertaken at divisional and group level, with the Audit Committee formally reviewing performance.
Risk monitoring and review As our business profile continues to change, the risk management process remains a dynamic one, with principal risks monitored throughout the year to ensure the risk profile is accurate and the control environment remains effective.
Through this process, newly identified risks will feature on the risk register and some risks may be removed.
The overall risk profile for 2015 has remained in line with that reported previously, although the definition of a number of risk events has been refined in order to more accurately reflect the evolving business and the potential challenges to achieving our strategic objectives.
It should be noted that there are other risks identified as part of our risk management process, but these do not have a material impact on the groups overall ability to achieve business objectives.
These risks are managed via the existing risk management process.
To further encourage a culture of risk management within the business, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, regularly reviews the programme of risk management undertaken across the group to demonstrate the importance of the management and assessment of risk at a senior level, and to take ownership of mitigation improvements where required.
Ultimately the risk management framework is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve the objectives and strategies of the group and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material risk and loss.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, considers the nature and extent of significant risks in setting the groups strategy.
Details of the principal risks of the group are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The Audit Committee confirms that this risk management process has been applied throughout the reporting year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal control and assurance In line with Mities operating model and within the framework set by Group Finance, the implementation of the system of internal control is managed by the leadership of each division.
Group functions such as Finance, Human Resources and Risk collaborate with divisional teams to promote continuous improvement and ensure that controls are operating effectively.
A formal review of the internal control environment, led by the Divisional Directors, is undertaken annually in each division through the Internal Control Questionnaire, which evaluates controls in all key business processes.
The Audit Committee receives assurance over the effectiveness of divisional controls through this process, updates from specific functions, and Internal and External Audit.
The Internal Audit function is structured by way of a co-source arrangement with in-house auditors working alongside specialists from Grant Thornton LLP to achieve the overall delivery of the Internal Audit programme.
The Internal Audit programme is designed to provide a level of assurance over the principal risks and controls to the group and is developed by the Head of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and guiding the activities of the Internal Audit function, including review and approval of the Internal Audit programme, reviewing the findings of the reports from the Internal Audit function, and reviewing plans to address identified areas for improvement arising from the audits.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the Independent Auditor, Deloitte LLP, who contribute a further independent perspective on the internal financial control systems arising from their audit work.
The Audit Committee also receives an update from the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors on the operation of controls within the business.
Committees of the Board The Board has five formally constituted committees: the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Investment Committee and the Results Committee, the scope of which are set out on the following pages.
Mitie Group plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
