Nomination Committee Chairmans introduction The role of the Nomination Committee Chairman is to ensure the Board is appropriately balanced in terms of composition, skills and experience.
The Committee is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties.
Who is on the Nomination Committee?
Chairman Roger Matthews Committee members David Jenkins Crawford Gillies Larry Hirst Jack Boyer Key purpose of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee evaluates the composition, experience, knowledge, skills and independence of the Board and its Committees.
This allows the appropriate balance to be maintained and ensures continued effectiveness.
The Committee also ensures that appropriate succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the groups senior management are also kept under review, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the group, and what skills and expertise are therefore required in the future.
Key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: a giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: a making recommendations to the Board concerning the following: potential candidates to fill Board vacancies when they arise, suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director, appointment of the Company Secretary: and membership of the Committees: a keeping up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the group and the market in which it operates: and a reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference were updated during the year and are available at http: www.
Mitie Group plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Key activities during the year The Committee reviewed the composition and chairmanship of the Board and each of its Committees and determined that all Non-Executive Directors remained independent in character and judgement.
The Committee continues to be satisfied that the Boards composition has been appropriate throughout the year, having regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and experience of its Directors and the size and nature of the business.
The Committee worked with executive search firms Inzito and Norman Broadbent during 2014 15.
Both firms supported the Committee in its search for potential appointees to replace David Jenkins as Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee and Crawford Gillies as Non-Executive Director.
Mark Reckitt will be appointed Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015, and Chairman of the Audit Committee upon David Jenkins stepping down from that post at the AGM in July, as notified to the market in May 2015.
It is intended that Mark be appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee after the AGM.
David Jenkins will step down as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director on 13 July 2015, but will remain as a Non-Executive Director of the Board until his retirement in December 2015.
A detailed and personally tailored induction programme is undertaken for Non-Executive Directors joining the Board in line with Mities standard procedure.
Frequency of Nomination Committee meetings During the financial year, the Committee met four times.
Attendance Number of meetings held in year: 4 Roger Matthews 4 David Jenkins 4 Crawford Gillies 4 Larry Hirst 4 Jack Boyer 4 Our policy on diversity Mitie has a company-wide Diversity Policy that clearly states its commitment to the inclusion and diversity of all employees at all levels, up to and including Board level.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are both female and serve on the Board.
The Groups employment practices and policies are designed to recruit, motivate, retain, train and develop the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other aspect of diversity.
The Board is responsible for driving the diversity agenda throughout the organisation, supported by an  Diversity Steering Group comprised of senior business leaders from all business areas.
The Steering Group identifies group-wide strategy and facilitates business specific diversity action plans to drive the diversity agenda.
The Board remains committed to developing a culture that encourages the inclusion and diversity of all of the groups employees, respecting and appreciating their differences and promoting the continuous development of employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
The Board is keen to ensure that all aspects of diversity are considered in the promotion, retention and development of the talent pipeline throughout the group as well as at Board level.
Workforce data is reviewed and monitored across all business areas, by salary banding, to track progress made on employee diversity, with particular regard to gender, age, disability and ethnicity.
Particular achievements include continued improvements in the percentage of women at all salary bands within the organisation and an increase in the mix of ethnicity across salary bandings.
Mitie has a Board-sponsored womens network Women at Work with the aim of promoting, supporting and encouraging women in progressing their careers within Mitie.
Both men and women are able to join the network and participate in all networking development events.
The model of an employee-led, Board sponsored, forum has proven successful, and in 2015 further networks will be launched covering the Black, Asian and minority ethnic BAME, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender LGBT, and disability communities.
Mitie continues to successfully build on its long-standing relationship with Remploy, which has been in place since 2006.
Mitie actively provides support for disabled people through provision of work experience and employment opportunities, with more than 550 disabled people employed to date.
Mitie Group plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee Mitie continues to support individuals with complex barriers to work and has formed a strategic partnership with Mosaic.
This is a national initiative aimed at providing mentoring and training for young people in the offender system.
Further details of the diversity of Mities people can be found in the sustainability report which is available on the Companys website at www.
Roger Matthews Chairman of the Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 57 to 78 and details the Remuneration Committees activities during the year and its policy on remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report contains full details of any earnings that the Executive Directors are permitted to retain from their external appointments.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available at the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions relating to the Remuneration Committee.
Investment Committee Overview and purpose The Investment Committee strengthens the groups governance framework and facilitates the internal approvals process by approving matters as delegated by the Board and referring recommendations for Board approval.
The Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive, as Chair, and Group Finance Director, met ten times during the year and considered matters such as major bids and contracts, acquisitions, disposals, large capital expenditure and Mitie Model investments.
Results Committee Overview and purpose The Results Committee assists the Board in approving matters such as Half-Year and preliminary results announcements, other routine, non-material announcements and shareholder communications.
The Results Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive, as Chair, and Group Finance Director, met twice during the year.
Mitie Group plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
