Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee plays a key role in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees: taking into account skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, and making recommendations to the Bruce Carnegie-Brown Board with regard to any changes.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee membership In 2015 we continued to review the I chair the Nomination Committee and the other members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, are detailed composition of the Board and I am in the table below.
Biographies of the members of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 38 and 39. delighted to have strengthened the Board further with the appointment of Robin Freestone.
Meetings in 2015 Committee members Eligible to attend Attended Bruce Carnegie-Brown chairman 3 3 Andrew Fisher 3 3 Robin Freestone 1 1 Sally James 3 3 Robin Klein 1 1 Rob Rowley 3 3 Genevieve Shore 3 2 Michael Wemms 1 1 Robin Freestone was appointed to the Committee on 1 August 2015.
Michael Wemms and Robin Klein retired from the Committee on 30 April 2015.
Role The role of the Nomination Committee is to: regularly evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence of the Board: review the size, structure and composition of the Board, including Board diversity: identify and recommend to the Board at the relevant time candidates for appointment as Directors: and give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
54 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain the Board.
When the need to appoint a Director is identified, we independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
prepare a candidate profile indicating the skills, knowledge and experience required, taking into account the Boards existing Written terms of reference that outline the Committees composition.
We engage external executive search consultants authority and responsibility are published on the investor and we interview suitable candidates who are proposed by relations section of the Groups website at either existing Board members or by the external executive http: corporate.
com and are available in search consultants.
hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
We review our terms of reference annually.
We give careful consideration to ensure proposed appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of Boardroom diversity skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
The Boards Statement on Diversity is as follows: When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable The Board of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC welcomed candidate, I will make a recommendation to the Board with the the publication in February 2011 of the Davies Review on Board making the final decision.
com Group PLC is committed to ensuring that any Board vacancies arising are Committee meetings filled by the most qualified candidates and recognises the We met on three occasions during the year.
Details of the value and importance of diversity in the composition of the attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are set out on Board.
When Board positions become available, the Company the previous page.
will remain focused on ensuring that a diverse range of candidates are considered whilst ensuring that appointments We invited the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer continue to be based on merit, measured against objective and the Company Secretary to attend meetings of the criteria and the skills and experience the individual offers.
The Company Secretary acts as Board has targeted a minimum female representation on the secretary to the Nomination Committee.
As at the date of this report, the Board had a total of eight Directors.
The skill set of the Non-Executive Directors In 2015, we: includes financial, economic, banking, digital, technology, communications and consumer expertise.
I am pleased to u reviewed the composition of the Board, including report that 25% of the Board are female and we have the balance of skills, knowledge and experience: achieved our targeted minimum female representation of 25% by 2016. u reviewed succession plans for the Board and executive management: Nomination Committee effectiveness u considered and recommended the appointment In 2015 we carried out a separate evaluation of Nomination of Robin Freestone as an Independent NonCommittee effectiveness by questionnaire.
The questionnaire Executive Director and his membership of each focused on areas such as composition, how the Committee of the Committees: operates, its responsibilities, knowledge and experience of u considered Graham Donoghue and Simon Nixon members.
The responses were discussed at a Committee stepping down from the Board: meeting.
Some of the development areas that will be actioned in 2016 include: u considered and recommended to the Board the further enhancements to the forward rolling agenda on re-election of all Directors at the 2016 Annual succession planning and talent management: and General Meeting: and greater focus in meetings on diversity.
u reviewed the register of Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board, based on the evaluation exercise, concluded that the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2015.
We followed the procedure outlined above for the appointment This report was approved by the Board and signed on its of Robin Freestone, engaging Russell Reynolds as the external behalf by: executive search consultants.
Russell Reynolds has no other connection with the Company.
We considered a wide and diverse range of candidates and, having confirmed his Bruce Carnegie-Brown independence, the Board was unanimous in its decision to Chairman of the Nomination Committee appoint Robin Freestone.
29 February 2016 Robin brings experience of leading global and digital businesses and will provide valuable challenge and insight to the Boards deliberations.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 55
