Corporate governance report DLC nominations committee Meeting schedule and attendance The committee met six times during the year.
How the committee spent its time Board and committee Succession Board Other composition planning evaluation 4% 50% 30% 10% Corporate governance matters In addition to the continuing robust 6% Composition discussions on succession and Members Committee Meeting attendance talent management, the committee throughout the year member since six meetings in the year focused on the recruitment of a new non-executive director.
We Stephen Harris March 2011 6 1 were very clear on the skill set we Imogen Mkhize January 2008 5 were looking for.
In particular we John Nicholas October 2009 6 were aware of the need to broaden Fred Phaswana June 2013 6 the experience on the Boards Anne Quinn May 2007 6 to be in line with our strategy of 2 growing our packaging interests.
Dominique Reiniche October 2015 1 The calibre of available candidates David Williams, chairman May 2007 6 was impressive and we have been 1 Imogen Mkhize resigned from the committee on 30 September 2015 and had attended all meetings pleased to welcome Dominique to uptothis date.
She is already 2 Dominique Reiniche was appointed a committee member on 1 October 2015 and attended all meetings making a positive contribution to heldfollowing her appointment.
Other regular attendees David Williams Chairman of the DLC nominations committee Chief executive officer David Williams chairs this committee but is not permitted to chair meetings during sessions regarding his own performance.
Neither does he chair meetings at which the appointment of his successor is discussed.
During the year the committees key activities included: Board and committee composition Reviewed the composition of the Boards and, having identified the need to appoint a new non-executive director with more experience of the product areas and geographic locations identified as growth areas for the Group, made recommendations to the Boards.
Oversaw the recruitment process that was led by one of the joint chairmen and the senior independent director see page 91 for more information.
Reviewed and confirmed the composition of each of the committees and the committee chairs, recommending changes to the Boards following the appointment of the new director which provided an opportunity to refresh some committee memberships.
Reviewed the continued independence of each non-executive director, including consideration of their term in office and any potential conflicts of interest, in particular through relationships and circumstances set out in the corporate governance codes of South Africa and the UK.
It was concluded that all non-executive directors remained independent.
Reviewed the time commitment required from each non-executive director, taking account of the number of meetings, preparation for and attendance at those meetings and other commitments held.
It was concluded that all non-executive directors continued to devote an appropriate amount of time to address their responsibilities to Mondi.
Conducted a review as John Nicholas had reached his six-year term in office see page 86 for more information.
88 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Succession planning Received a report and presentation on talent management practices within the Group.
Received a report and presentation on diversity within the Group and discussed measures being taken to improve this.
Received a report and presentation on the succession plans for the executive committee members and senior management within the Group, highlighting emergency cover and likely successors ready now, in 1-3 years and 3-5 years.
Attended the Mondi Group Leadership Forum see below for more information.
Board evaluation Monitored progress against the agreed action plan from the prior years evaluation process see page 86 for more information.
Considered the process for the 2015 evaluation of the Boards, committees and individual directors see pages 86 and 87 for more information.
Reviewed the output from the 2015 evaluation process and recommended an action plan to the Boards see page 87 for more information.
Corporate governance matters Reviewed whether it remained appropriate for each director to stand for re-election at the Annual General Meetings and made a recommendation to the Boards.
Reviewed the committees terms of reference, performance and work programme to ensure the activities of the committee reflected current regulation, governance and best practice.
A proposal to implement changes to the terms of reference was presented to the Boards and approved.
Considered and agreed the committees report for inclusion in the Groups Integrated report and financial statements.
Other Reviewed the proposed response to an inquiry from the Equality and Human Rights Commission that they were conducting into gender diversity and the director appointment process.
Considered requests from David Hathorn and Peter Oswald for them to accept external directorships.
Having reviewed the proposals against the policy and the critical factors involved, in particular the time commitments, the requests were agreed to see page 85 for more information.
Prague, Czech Republic Attendance at the Mondi Group Leadership Forum The joint chairmen and all non-executive directors attended the Mondi Group Leadership Forum that was held in Prague in June 2015.
Mondis Leadership Forums are held every two to three years and provide an opportunity for the senior leadership group to come together to debate key issues facing Mondi as a leading international business.
The Forum in 2015 focused on the three key areas of strategy, innovation and leadership.
Leaders used the time together to discuss what Mondi needs to do to keep being successful into the future.
The Forum concluded with the Mondi Diamond Awards which recognised outstanding projects and teams across Mondi in the areas of safety, people, operational excellence, customer focus, cutting edge products and sustainable development.
More information regarding these awards can be found in the Chief executives review and Business unit reviews of this report.
Read more about the Mondi Diamond Awards Attending the Forum provided the chairmen and non-executive directors with an in our business reviews on pages 52 to 69 opportunity to meet the senior leadership group, helping them form views on future successors for the executive team.
In addition it provided them with invaluable insights into how the Groups strategy is working and perceived, and the areas of debate among the senior management for the future.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 89 Corporate governance report Appointments to the Boards At least annually the committee reviews the composition of the Boards and each of its committees to ensure they remain appropriate.
During the year it was agreed that Imogen Mkhize would retire from the Boards having served nearly a nine-year term and Dominique Reiniche was appointed an independent non-executive director.
More details on the recruitment process are given on page 91.
This change has also enabled the refreshing of the composition of some of the committee memberships.
Terms of appointment On appointment each non-executive director receives letters of appointment from each of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc setting out, among other things, their terms of appointment, the expected time commitment and details of any committees of which they will be a member.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, after which a review is undertaken to consider renewal of the term.
Mondi follows governance best practice with all directors standing for re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
Diversity In line with our philosophy of encouraging diversity and excluding discrimination, we provide equal opportunities within the Group.
The Groups gender diversity statistics can be found in the Strategic report on page 50.
We currently have two female directors representing 22% of the composition of the Boards.
While gender diversity is always a consideration we consider diversity to be broader than just gender.
Therefore, while we are committed to always considering gender diversity when making appointments, it remains important to ensure diversity is considered in a broader context and that we have the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience on our Boards to meet our business needs and future strategy.
As a global organisation operating in more than 30 countries, diversity forms an integral part of the way we do business and is encouraged.
We are committed to creating a culture that embraces diversity and provides a working environment that is non-discriminatory, from recruitment, training and career development, to reward and promotion.
We employ, empower and develop competent people with the necessary potential required to meet our business needs and maintain a competitive business advantage.
In South Africa we are committed to making a positive contribution to the process of transformation.
We have taken active steps to meet the requirements of broad-based black economic empowerment BBBEE, including establishing transformation forums in our South African operations to allow our employees to discuss equity and training-related issues and ideas.
The Boards have adopted a formal diversity policy for the Group which sets out guidelines for such matters as recruitment, the use of search firms, succession and annual reviews.
A number of initiatives continue to be moved forward including an external direct search policy that defines a percentage of female candidates on the long and shortlists and a commitment to hire 50% women for our trainee and internship programmes.
Diversity is also becoming an essential part of Mondis leadership development programme, with the inclusion of a number of talent management and development initiatives through the Mondi Academy, including the implementation of training modules such as Intercultural Diversity & International Business Competence to enhance the understanding and appreciation of the benefits of diversity within the business.
Employee exchanges where individuals spend time working in different business units and locations around the Group enables them to gain experience of different working practices and skills as well as having exposure to different cultures.
While it is recognised that there is more work to do, Mondi believes that continually sharing best practice, networking and sharing experiences, both internally and externally, helps us to make good progress.
90 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appointment of Dominique Reiniche Background Board evaluation reviews in recent times have identified the need to bring directors onto the Boards who have experience of the product areas and geographic locations identified as growth areas for the Group.
Early in the year it was decided to commence a search for a director with experience in consumer-related packaging, who had a strong customer orientation and whose skills would complement those of existing board members.
This led to a clear description of the role and capabilities required.
While gender diversity was a consideration for the Boards, as has been stated previously, ensuring a diversity of business skills and experience to meet our business needs and future strategy remained paramount.
Process Agreed key business Zygos provided longlist Shortlisted two Boards agreed with experience and of potential candidates candidates for interview recommendation skills required for consideration by other executive and and proceeded non-executive directors with appointment Zygos engaged to Five candidates Nominations committee assist with search chosen from longlist for considered shortlisted interview by one of the candidates and made joint chairmen and SID recommendation to the Boards The process for the recruitment was led by David Williams, joint chairman, and Anne Quinn, senior independent director, on behalf of the nominations committee.
The Zygos 1 Partnership Zygos, an external search agency, was engaged to assist with the selection process.
Zygos helped produce a detailed candidate specification based on the criteria provided by the committee.
They then conducted a market search and benchmarked candidates for the role before providing detailed profiles for a longlist of candidates.
The candidates were from a variety of backgrounds, with a mix of executives and portfolio non-executives, all having business backgrounds in marketing with related packaging exposure and were from a number of different nationalities.
Having reviewed all the profiles presented, David and Anne interviewed five of the candidates before drawing up a shortlist of two who were then interviewed by other Mondi executive and non-executive directors.
Detailed references were also taken before the two shortlisted candidates were considered at a full meeting of the nominations committee.
Conclusion Following a rigorous selection process, the committee, having considered the relative merits and fit of each candidate, made a recommendation to the Boards, which was accepted, to appoint Dominique Reiniche as an independent non-executive director with effect from 1 October 2015.
Dominique was the preferred candidate as she has extensive business experience of operating in Europe and has international consumer marketing and innovation experience as well as strong customer awareness see page 75 for her full biography.
1 The Zygos Partnership does not provide any other services to the Mondi Group.
The Zygos Partnership is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 91
