Board of Directors & Company Secretary Bruce Carnegie-Brown Peter Plumb Rob Rowley Chairman of the Board and Chairman Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director, of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director Term of Office: Appointed to the Board as a Term of Office: Peter was appointed to the Board Term of Office: Rob was appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in April 2010 and became in January 2009 and became Chief Executive a Non-Executive Director in September 2007.
Chairman of the Board in April 2014.
Committee Membership: Rob chairs the Audit Committee Membership: Bruce chairs the Committee Membership: Peter attends meetings Committee and is a member of the Nomination Nomination Committee and attends meetings of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination and Risk Committees.
of the Risk, Remuneration and Audit Committees Committees by invitation.
Skills and Experience: Rob has experience in Independent: On appointment.
Skills and Experience: Peter has experience in finance and international businesses having been Skills and Experience: Bruce has over 30 years of commercial strategy and leading international finance director at Reuters plc 1990 to 2001 and experience of the financial services sector in both consumer facing businesses.
He was previously UK having held senior management positions at executive and non-executive roles.
He has managing director of dunnhumby Limited.
Before Reuters prior to that.
He has been a non-executive previously held senior executive positions in that, he was general manager of Europe Disney director of Taylor Wimpey plc since 2010 where he private equity as managing partner of 3i Group, in Consumer Products, international director of is the senior independent non-executive director insurance as chief executive officer of Marsh Ltd Dyson Appliances Limited and held senior and chairs its audit committee.
He has been a and in banking as a managing director of JP commercial roles at PepsiCo International.
Peter non-executive director of Morgan Advanced Morgan, and non-executive roles as chairman of has an MBA from IMD in Switzerland and a BSc Materials plc since 2014 where he chairs its audit Aon UK Ltd 2012 to 2015, director of Close Civil Engineering from the University of committee and a non-executive director of Greene Brothers Group plc 2006 to 2014 and director of Birmingham.
King plc since 2014 where he is the senior Catlin Group Ltd 2010 to 2014. independent non-executive director.
External Appointments: Peter is a non-executive External Appointments: Rob is a non-executive External Appointments: Bruce is vice chairman and director of The Co-operative Group Limited.
director of Taylor Wimpey plc, Morgan Advanced lead independent director of Banco Santander SA Materials plc, Greene King plc and Camelot UK and a non-executive director of Santander Lotteries Limited.
Matthew Price Sally James Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Risk Committee Term of Office: Matthew was appointed to the Term of Office: Sally was appointed to the Board Board in April 2014. as a Non-Executive Director in April 2013.
Committee Membership: Matthew attends Committee Membership: Sally chairs the Risk meetings of the Audit and Risk Committees by Committee and is a member of the Remuneration, invitation.
Skills and Experience: Matthew has experience in Skills and Experience: Sally has experience of the finance and in consumer facing businesses.
He financial services sector having been a nonwas formerly finance director at Costa Coffee executive director of UBS Limited 2009 to 2015 2009 to 2014 and managing director of its and before that held a number of senior legal roles business in China.
Matthew previously held senior in investment banks in London and Chicago finance and commercial roles at Sodexo and J including Managing Director and EMEA General Sainsbury including retail finance director and Counsel at UBS Investment Bank from 2001 to property director.
She has also been a non-executive director accountant, having trained and qualified with of Rotork plc since 2012 where she chairs the Audit Deloitte in its corporate finance practice.
Committee and a non-executive director of Towry Holdings Limited since 2011.
External Appointments: Sally is a non-executive director of Rotork plc and Towry Holdings Limited.
38 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Andrew Fisher Genevieve Shore Robin Freestone Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Term of Office: Robin was appointed to the Board Term of Office: Genevieve was appointed Term of Office: Andrew was appointed to the as a Non-Executive Director in August 2015. to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in Board as a Non-Executive Director in August 2014.
Committee Membership: Robin is a member of the Committee Membership: Andrew chairs the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Committee Membership: Genevieve is a member Committees.
of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Skills and Experience: Robin has experience of Skills and Experience: Andrew has experience of leading global and digital businesses, having been building digital, media and entrepreneurial Skills and Experience: Genevieve has extensive chief financial officer of Pearson PLC from 2006 to businesses.
He is currently executive chairman and digital, technology and strategic experience in the 2015.
Previously he was deputy chief financial was previously chief executive officer of Shazam media, publishing and technology sectors.
She held officer at Pearson and prior to that, he held a Entertainment Limited.
Prior to that, Andrew was senior leadership roles at Pearson PLC including number of senior financial positions at Amersham European managing director of Infospace Inc and chief information officer and chief product officer.
plc 2000 to 2004, Henkel Ltd 1995 to 2000 and founder and managing director of TDLI.
She has been a non-executive director of STV ICI plc 1984 to 1995.
Andrew has been a non-executive director of Marks Group plc since 2012 and a non-executive director of and Spencer Group plc since December 2015.
Next 15 Communications Group plc since February External Appointments: Robin is a non-executive 2015, where for both companies she chairs their director and senior independent director at Cable External Appointments: Andrew is executive respective remuneration committees.
Genevieve & Wireless Communications plc and a nonchairman of Shazam Entertainment Limited, a was appointed to the advisory board of Great executive director of Smith & Nephew plc.
He sits non-executive director of Marks and Spencer Fridays in September 2014 and as a non-executive on the advisory board to the ICAEWs Financial Group plc and is a member of the Advisory Board director of Santander UK plc in May 2015.
Reporting Committee and is a member of the CBI to the Secretary of State for the Review of the Economic Growth Board.
He also chaired the 100 BBC Charter.
External Appointments: Genevieve is a nonGroup in 2013 to 2014. executive director of Santander UK plc, STV Group plc and Next 15 Communications Group plc, and she is a member of the advisory board of Great Fridays and Lego Education.
She is also an adviser to the Parliamentary digital board.
Darren Drabble Company Secretary and Group General Counsel Term of Office: Darren was appointed Company Secretary in June 2007.
Skills and Experience: Darren has a corporate and commercial law background originally qualifying as a solicitor with Addleshaw Goddard LLP before working as a senior legal counsel at United Utilities Group PLC.
Darren joined the Group as Company Secretary and Group General Counsel in May 2007.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39
