Risk Committee Report The Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management framework, ensuring that risks are appropriately identified, managed and mitigated, and advising the Board on risk appetite, strategy Sally James and culture.
Chairman of the Risk Committee Committee membership In 2015, we focused on embedding I chair the Risk Committee and the other members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors are detailed in the the risk management framework table below.
Biographies of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 38 to 39. across the Group through the enhancement of our risk appetite Meetings in 2015 statement, improving management Committee members Eligible to attend Attended information and reporting, overseeing Sally James chairman 6 6 Robin Freestone 1 1 compliance with the emerging Andrew Fisher 6 6 Rob Rowley 6 6 regulatory environment and assessing Genevieve Shore 6 6 Michael Wemms 3 2 the adequacy of managements response to key risks.
Robin Freestone was appointed to the Committee on 1 August 2015.
Michael Wemms retired from the Committee on 30 April 2015.
The secretary to the Committee is Darren Drabble, Company Secretary and Group General Counsel.
The Risk Committee maintains close links with the Audit Committee with the Chairman of each Committee being a member of the other.
This cross-membership facilitates effective linkage between both Committees and ensures that any matters relating to internal control and financial reporting are considered in an effective manner.
In addition, the Risk Committee works with the Remuneration Committee to ensure that risk is properly considered in setting the Groups remuneration policy.
I am also a member of the Remuneration Committee.
56 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Role Principal activities in 2015 The primary role of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board in The Committee has an annual schedule of work, developed its oversight of risk within the Group, including risk appetite, from its terms of reference, with standing items that it risk tolerance and the risk management framework.
This considers at each meeting in addition to any specific matters includes: upon which the Committee has decided to focus.
This schedule advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, of work is expected to evolve to reflect the Groups strategy and tolerance, strategy and culture: changes to the economic and regulatory environment in which overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk the Group operates.
The Risk Committee receives regular exposures of the Group and future risk strategy: reports from members of executive management, the Chief overseeing the application of the Groups risk management Risk Officer, Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel.
framework: reviewing reports received from the Groups management, Risk and Compliance function and, where appropriate, In 2015, we: Internal Audit or third parties on the identification, management and mitigation of risks: u enhanced and approved the Group Risk overseeing compliance with relevant legal and regulatory Appetite Statement and Framework with requirements including financial crime and anti-bribery specific consideration given to the risk procedures: management and internal control in relation to proposed strategic transactions, material requirements of the UK Corporate acquisitions or disposals, ensuring that a due diligence Governance Code: appraisal of the proposition is undertaken, which includes an assessment of risks and implications for the risk appetite u created and approved a more detailed risk and tolerance of the Group: and register which incorporates a wider range of risks in addition to financial risks: considering and approving the remit of the Risk and Compliance function and ensuring it has adequate u introduced and reviewed an annual rolling resources.
agenda: u refined the structure of responsibilities for Written terms of reference that outline the Committees risk within the various functions, including authority and responsibilities are published on the investor our Internal Audit function and Risk and relations section of the Groups website at Compliance function: http: corporate.
com and are available in hard copy form from the Company Secretary.
We review our u reviewed implementation of the Groups terms of reference annually.
Customer First and conduct framework: u assessed the identification and management Committee meetings of risks connected to the Groups capital We met six times in 2015 and the attendance of our members is investment programme: shown in the table on the previous page.
We invited the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial u reviewed in detail the management of risk Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Company Secretary, together with and compliance in MoneySavingExpert: appropriate members of the management team with u oversaw the compliance with evolving responsibility for management of key risks, and the external regulation including in particular the ongoing auditor, to meetings as necessary.
The Committee also meets activities of the FCA in respect of price separately with the Chief Risk Officer at least once a year.
comparison websites and the revised Confidence Code requirements issued by After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues Ofgem: that we discussed.
u assessed the Group processes for identifying The members of the Risk Committee can, where they judge it and mitigating potential conflicts of interest: and necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
u assessed the identification and management of technology risks across the Group, including data security.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 57 Risk Committee Report continued Risk and Compliance Overview of Committee activities for 2016 The Group has a Risk and Compliance function, headed by the The management of operational and conduct risks will continue Chief Risk Officer, which reviews the Groups standards and values to be our priority for 2016.
We will continue to monitor the together with regulatory matters in relation to the various bodies embedding of risk management processes into key business that regulate a number of the areas within which the Group activities and will support the continued investment in Risk operates.
These include the FCA, the Information Commissioners and Compliance.
We will continue to develop and refine Office and Ofgem which operates a voluntary code relating to management information and reporting.
We will also be energy price comparison to which the Group subscribes.
arranging for an external consultant to undertake an independent review of our risk management and compliance processes during 2016.
The Group recognises that regulation in general, and in In 2015, we: particular the activities of the FCA, Ofgem and CMA will u reviewed and approved the Risk and Compliance continue to be a feature of the price comparison market.
The plan which defines the scope of the work that Group has invested, and will continue to invest, in additional the function will undertake with regard to skills and resources in this area in 2016. compliance monitoring and assurance activities across the Group: This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: u considered the updates against the Risk and Compliance plan and the results of the work Sally James performed since the previous meeting and Chairman of the Risk Committee managements response: and u reviewed the resources of the Risk and 29 February 2016 Compliance function and recruited additional resource.
Risk Committee effectiveness In 2015, we carried out our annual evaluation of Risk Committee effectiveness by questionnaire.
The questionnaire focused on areas such as composition, how the Committee operates, professional development of members and oversight of risk management.
The responses were then discussed at a Committee meeting.
Some of the development areas that will be actioned in 2016 include: further enhancements to management information relating to the reporting of key risks: succession planning within the Risk and Compliance function: and further enhancements to the forward rolling agenda on key risks.
The Board, based on the evaluation exercise, concluded that the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2015.
58 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015
