Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee plays a key role in monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, reviewing the material financial reporting judgements and assessing Rob Rowley the internal control environment.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee membership In 2015 we focused on financial I chair the Audit Committee and the other members are detailed in the table below.
All the members are Independent reporting, including the processes to Non-Executive Directors in accordance with provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code and the Board has make this Annual Report & Accounts determined that both Robin Freestone and I have recent and fair, balanced and understandable, relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
I am a qualified accountant and was formerly finance director of the effectiveness of external and Reuters plc.
I am currently chairman of the audit committee at Taylor Wimpey plc and Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Robin internal audit processes and the Freestone is also a qualified accountant and was formerly chief financial officer of Pearson plc.
Robin will succeed me as effectiveness and appropriateness of chairman of the Audit Committee at the end of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
our system of internal controls.
Biographies of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 38 to 39.
Meetings in 2015 Committee Members Eligible to attend Attended Rob Rowley chairman 4 4 Robin Freestone 1 1 Sally James 4 4 Robin Klein 1 1 Genevieve Shore 4 4 Michael Wemms 1 1 Robin Freestone was appointed to the Committee on 1 August 2015.
Robin Klein and Michael Wemms retired from the Committee on 30 April 2015.
The secretary to the Committee is Darren Drabble, Company Secretary and Group General Counsel.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47 Audit Committee Report continued After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues Role that we discussed.
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit processes and The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain risk management systems.
This includes: independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and any significant issues Financial Statements and reports and judgements contained in them: The Committee is responsible for reviewing the reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material appropriateness of the Groups half-year reporting and annual financial reporting judgements contained in them: Financial Statements.
We do this by considering, among other advising the Board on whether the Committee believes this things, the accounting policies and practices adopted by the Annual Report and the Financial Statements contained Group: the correct application of applicable reporting standards within it, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and and compliance with broader governance requirements: the understandable and provide the information necessary for approach taken by management to report the key judgemental shareholders to assess the Groups strategy, business areas of reporting and the comments of the external auditor on activities and financial performance: managements chosen approach.
reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the I audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK In 2015, we: professional regulatory requirements: developing and implementing a policy on the level and u reviewed the 31 December 2014 Annual Report amount of external auditor non-audit services: and Financial Statements and the half-year advising the Board on the appointment, re-appointment and statement to 30 June 2015, together with reports removal of the external auditor and the remuneration and from the external auditors: terms of engagement of the external auditor: monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control u reviewed the trading updates issued in April and risk management systems, including whistleblowing and 2015 and November 2015: fraud prevention procedures: u examined key points of disclosure and reviewing the scope, activities and results of the Groups presentation to ensure adequacy, clarity and Internal Audit function: completeness of the Financial Statements: and reviewing the Audit Committees terms of reference, carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting u reviewed documentation prepared to support the satisfactory operation of the Committee: and the enhanced going concern and viability reporting to the Board how it has discharged its statements given on pages 25 to 26. responsibilities.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees Significant issues authority and responsibilities are published on the investor We identified the issues on page 49 as significant in the context relations section of the Groups website at of the 2015 Financial Statements.
We consider these areas to be http: corporate.
com and are available in significant taking into account the level of materiality and hard copy form from the Company Secretary.
We review our degree of judgement exercised by management.
We discussed terms of reference annually.
The Audit Committees terms of the issues in detail to ensure that the approaches taken were reference include all matters required by Disclosure and appropriate.
This included reviewing presentations and reports Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
from both management and the external auditor.
Committee meetings We met four times in 2015 and the attendance of our members is shown in the table on page 47.
In order to maintain effective communication between all relevant parties, we invited the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, together with appropriate members of the management team with responsibility for risk and internal control, and the external auditor, to meetings as necessary.
We set time aside periodically to seek the views of the external auditor, in the absence of management.
The external auditor has direct access to me to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee also meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit during the year.
48 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Issue Committee review Revenue As more fully described on pages 85 and 97 We reviewed and assessed managements key controls in relation to the the majority of the Groups revenue is derived recording of revenue which include: from success-based commercial deals which compensate the Group for each product sold a a completeness check which is performed by reconciling all click by a provider to a customer referred to it by activity on the website and ensuring that an invoice has been raised, the Group.
The Group recognises this revenue or revenue has been accrued, where appropriate: at the point at which a customer leaves one of b a review to compare accrued revenue at the end of the previous the Groups websites, based on the number month and actual revenue invoiced during the following month, with expected to click through and purchase a significant differences investigated to provide evidence that revenues product from a provider site.
are correctly stated: c a programme of revenue assurance by the Groups Internal Audit function.
This helps provide us with assurance that revenues are correctly stated by reviewing provider systems and controls to ensure that sales made by providers resulting from referrals made by the Group have been correctly identified and allocated in the provider systems.
In addition management regularly reviews the quantum and aging of any accrued revenue balances.
The assessment of the Groups information system which records the clicks, together with the reconciliation of revenue to cash receipts, therefore form a key part of the audit.
The results of KPMGs testing are included in their first half and full-year reports prepared for the Committee and reviewed in detail and discussed with KPMG.
Capitalisation of software and development costs As more fully described on pages 94 to 96 of The judgements in relation to software and development assets largely the Groups Financial Statements the Group relate to the future economic benefits associated with the assets and that holds intangible asset balances arising from capitalisation is in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
We the capitalisation of certain software and addressed these matters through examining investment appraisals on key IT development costs principally relating to projects received from management outlining the basis for the key developments in the Groups front end assumptions used and were comfortable with managements justification.
platforms and back office data warehouse.
We gain comfort that business plans in relation to the capitalised assets have received Board approval.
This is also a significant risk area for the audit, and therefore KPMG provide to the Committee their comments on the approach taken by management.
During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Committee critically reviewed the analysis performed on the capitalisation of software and development costs and agreed that the projected future cash flows from these assets supports their carrying values.
Contingent remuneration The Group acquired the business and assets The judgement involved in estimating the benefit payable relates to several of MoneySavingExpert and a sole trader aspects of MoneySavingExperts performance.
We reviewed the accounting business from Martin Lewis in September valuations of the contingent remuneration and, in light of the performance 2012.
As described more fully in note 3 to the to date and anticipated future performance reported by management, Groups Financial Statements on page 89, the agreed that the amount recorded in the Interim financial statements at June remuneration was contingent upon various 2015 was appropriate.
In addition, since this was an area of significant audit non-financial performance criteria together risk, we ensured that KPMG detailed their views on the judgements which with a discretionary element and the management have made in their report to the Committee.
As the contingent continuing employment for a period of three remuneration crystallised in September 2015 and was paid in November years by Martin Lewis.
2015, this was no longer an issue at 31 December 2015.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49 Audit Committee Report continued We also reviewed and considered the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, we considered them to be stable in nature and therefore did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2015 Financial Statements.
Issue Committee review Intangible assets impairment testing We reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management in preparing the impairment review to ensure that they were appropriate.
We also obtained the external auditors views on the appropriateness of the approach and conclusions.
The results of this review were that we were satisfied with the conclusions reached.
Share-based payment charges We reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management to ensure that they were appropriate.
We also obtained the external auditors assessment of the calculations.
Enhanced going concern and viability During the year we reviewed managements plans and progress in order that statements the Committee could derive appropriate assurance that sufficient rigour was built into the assessment.
In assessing the validity of the statements detailed on pages 25 to 26, we reviewed the work undertaken to assess the Groups resilience to the Principal Risks under various scenarios.
Fair, balanced and understandable Report and Accounts In 2015, we: One of the key governance requirements is for the Annual Report and the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, u reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and balanced and understandable and provide the information methodology of the audit work to be undertaken necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and by the external auditor: performance, business model and strategy.
Ensuring this u evaluated the independence and objectivity of standard is met requires continuous assessment of the financial the external auditor, having regard to a a reporting issues affecting the Group in addition to the focused report from the external auditor describing their exercises which take place during the production of the Annual arrangements to identify, report and manage Report and Financial Statements.
These focused exercises can be conflicts of interest: b the extent and nature of summarised as follows: non-audit services provided by the external a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal auditor: and c considering the tenure of the consistency throughout the Annual Report and Financial audit partner, who is required to rotate every Statements: five years in line with ethical standards.
The a review by the Committee of all material matters, as reported audit partner rotated with effect from April elsewhere in this Annual Report and Financial Statements: 2015: a risk comparison review, which assesses the consistency of the presentation of risks and significant judgements u agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be throughout the main areas of risk disclosure in this Annual paid to the external auditor for the audit of the Report and Financial Statements: 2015 Financial Statements: a review of the balance of good and bad news: u reviewed recommendations made by the ensuring it correctly reflects: external auditor in their management letters the Groups position and performance as described on and the adequacy of managements response: pages 20 to 24: and the Groups business model, as described on pages 6 to 7: u reviewed the timing of a tender exercise in the Groups strategy, as described on pages 10 to 13. relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
The Directors statement on a fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report and Financial Statements is set out on page 75.
External auditor Independence & non-audit services The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to We have policies and procedures in place in relation to the the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
provision of non-audit services by the external auditor which are We also approve the terms of engagement and fees of the reviewed regularly.
This ensures that the Group benefits in a external auditor, ensuring they have appropriate audit plans in cost-effective manner from the cumulative knowledge and place and that an appropriate relationship is maintained experience of its auditor whilst also ensuring that the auditor between the Group and the external auditor.
50 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
the half-year review and year-end audit, the external auditor was The external auditor is not permitted to perform any work which required to explain significant risks to audit quality by reference they may later be required to audit or which might affect their to the Companys specific circumstances and changes in the risks objectivity and independence or create a conflict of interest.
Key and reasons for those changes.
We explored the auditors points from our internal procedure for approval of work given to understanding of our business and industry knowledge which the external auditor are: informed their approach to identifying risks.
We reviewed the no non-audit work may be placed with the external auditor Audit Quality Review team of the FRCs report of KPMG and without the specific approval of the Chief Financial Officer: discussed the actions taken by KPMG in light of the specific approval is required in advance from me as well as the recommendations, including the requirement to take further Chief Financial Officer for any non-audit work to be action to ensure there is appropriate evidence of involvement by undertaken by the external auditor in excess of 50,000: the engagement quality control reviewer on all audits.
We the non-audit fees are reported regularly to the Committee: worked with KPMG to understand their judgements about valuation services, appraisals or fairness opinions are materiality.
We looked at the way they communicated key prohibited: and accounting and audit judgements.
This approach was outsourcing of internal audit services, management functions, supplemented by members of the Committee and senior recruitment services and legal services is prohibited.
members of the Finance team who regularly interact with the external auditor completing a detailed questionnaire which During the year the value of non-audit services provided by the included consideration of the audit partner, the approach, external auditor amounted to 0.18m 2014: 0.14m.
Non-audit communication, independence, objectivity, and reporting.
The services amounted to 86% of the value of the audit.
New EU results of the questionnaire were then reported to and discussed legislation on permitted non-audit services will come into effect by the Committee with the Committee gaining an understanding from 17 June 2016 which introduces a permitted non-audit from respondents of why respondents considered the audit team services fee cap of 70% of the average audit fee over a exhibited the qualities included in the responses.
We also consecutive three-year period.
This cap will come into effect for assessed the cost effectiveness and value for money aspect of the Group in the financial year ending 31 December 2020.
We reported our findings to the Board as part of our significant proportion of non-audit services relates to the recommendation.
following: reviewing the Groups half-year reporting: We held private meetings with the external auditor as necessary the provision of tax compliance services in relation to direct after Committee meetings to review key issues within their taxation: sphere of interest and responsibility.
the provision of advice in relation to the preparation and submission of claims for research and development R&D KPMG have acted as the auditor to the Group since 2004 and relief: and were appointed as the auditor to the Company on its flotation in the provision of regulatory advice in relation to 2007.
The lead audit partner rotates every five years to ensure documentation and control.
The KPMG audit partner was rotated on 30 April 2015 in accordance with the FRCs Ethics Standard 3 Revised.
We The assurance provided by the external auditor on the items considered the length of KPMGs tenure and the results of the above is considered by the Group as strictly necessary in the detailed questionnaire when assessing their continued interests of the Group.
The level of non-audit services offered effectiveness, independence and re-appointment.
Mindful of the reflects the auditors knowledge and understanding of the increasing regulatory focus on audit tendering in the UK and EU, Group.
The Group has also continued with the appointment of we have been keeping under review the appropriate timing for other accountancy firms to provide certain non-audit services to conducting a formal tender exercise.
During 2016, we the Group in connection with tax, systems and regulatory advice recommended, and the Board accepted, a proposal to put the and anticipates that this will continue in 2016. audit contract out to competitive tender in 2016, in relation to the audit for the Group for the year ending 31 December 2017.
This The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence and will ensure the external audit contract is tendered within the 10 regulatory advice is permitted with the Committees prior years prescribed by EU and UK legislation and the Codes approval in line with the approval limits set out above.
We confirm we have complied with the external auditor was not engaged during the year to provide any provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies services which may have given rise to a conflict of interest.
The Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit and Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the external auditor as a whole and therefore that the objectivity and We continue to remain satisfied with the work of KPMG and that independence of the external auditor was not compromised.
they continue to remain independent and objective.
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting Effectiveness and re-appointment Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external We considered the quality and effectiveness of the external audit auditor has confirmed its independence as auditor of the process, in light of the FRCs Practice Aid for Audit Committees Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
The assessment of effectiveness was completed as recommended to the Board that a resolution is put to part of an ongoing process of review throughout the year with shareholders recommending the re-appointment of KPMG as the the Audit Committee seeking assurances and understanding of external auditor together with their terms of engagement and the auditors approach to the audit.
At the planning meetings for remuneration at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51 Audit Committee Report continued Internal control Internal Audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the The Group has an Internal Audit function which reviews effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk financial, operational and regulatory matters.
Through monitoring the effectiveness of its internal controls and risk management, the Committee is able to maintain a good understanding of business performance, key judgemental areas and managements In 2015, we: decision-making processes.
u continued to oversee investment in the Internal Audit function, recognising that regulation in particular, as price comparison continues to become an ever more important part of the In 2015, we: distribution chain of financial services, will become more important: u reviewed the framework and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk u reviewed the rolling twelve-month Internal management, including financial, operational Audit plan which defines the scope of work the and compliance controls: Internal Audit function will undertake: u received regular updates from management on u reviewed results from audits performed internal control improvements and requested including any unsatisfactory audit findings and that KPMG reported on progress as part of their related action plans: half-year review work: u reviewed open audit actions, together with u reviewed external consultants reports on back monitoring progress against the actions: office systems and processes: u reviewed how the Internal Audit function could u monitored and reviewed managements best support the Risk Committee and Audit progress on improvements to back office Committee: systems and processes, including the payroll system: u reviewed the assurance map to ensure there is clear, comprehensive risk and assurance u reviewed comprehensive reports from the coverage: and external auditor, KPMG, of the results of their controls testing as part of the external audit: u met with the head of Internal Audit.
u reported to the Board on our evaluation of the operation of the Groups internal control and risk management system, informed by reports from Internal Audit and KPMG: and Whistleblowing The Group has a whistleblowing process which enables u received a report from KPMG regarding cyber employees of the Group to raise, in confidence, concerns about security and requested future regular updates possible improprieties in financial reporting, other operational from management to provide comfort that management continues to treat this as a key matters or inappropriate personal behaviours in the work place.
In 2015, we: We consider the adequacy of managements response u reviewed the controls in place to mitigate to matters raised and the implementation of against fraud risks: recommendations made.
u decided to outsource the whistleblowing hotline The Boards statement on internal control and risk and appointed an external provider to facilitate management can be found on pages 44 to 45. reporting by employees via confidential hotline, email and internet: and u reviewed reports from the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel on whistleblowing incidents and their outcomes at each meeting.
52 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Risk Committee The Group established a separate Risk and Compliance function in 2014 headed by the Chief Risk Officer.
A separate Risk Committee was also established in 2014 which is chaired by Sally James.
The Risk Committee operates separately but alongside the Audit Committee.
A separate report of the work and responsibilities of the Risk Committee is set out on pages 56 to 58.
Audit Committee effectiveness In 2015 we carried out our evaluation of Audit Committee effectiveness with Directors serving on the Committee and members of the finance and executive management teams completing a questionnaire.
The questionnaire focused on areas such as composition, how the committee operates, professional development of members, oversight of financial reporting, oversight of risk management and internal control and oversight of internal and external audit.
The responses were then discussed at a Committee meeting.
Some of the development areas that will be actioned in 2016 include: a continued focus on the automation of controls: a continued focus on the effectiveness of risk mitigation controls: and further enhancements to our internal control and internal audit capability.
Training The Audit Committee receives or reviews guidance as appropriate during the year.
In 2015, we: u received updates from our external auditor, KPMG, on financial reporting developments: u received updates on the requirement to tender audit services and the prohibition of certain non-audit services being provided by the external auditor: u received an external update on the cyber security landscape from KPMG: and u reviewed the latest FRC Guidance on assessing external audit effectiveness.
Overview of Committee activities for 2016 Internal control will continue to be our priority for 2016 with oversight of the implementation of additional assurance processes, investment in compliance and internal audit being our priorities.
Our other area of focus will be the oversight of the tender process for the external audit contract.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee 29 February 2016 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 53
