60 Governance REpORT OF THE AuDIT COMMITTEE Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2015.
It has been a busy year for the Committee as we respond to the continuing challenges of ensuring consistent and robust financial controls across a global business and address the changes in governance and reporting requirements, most notably this year the introduction of the viability statement as set out on page 21 of this Report and the adoption of FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework in respect of the Company Balance Sheet as set out on page 146.
The main purpose of the Audit Committee continues to be to assist the Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
I would like to highlight a number of key areas of focus for the Committee in 2015, as follows: During 2015, we continued to monitor our internal controls closely and received a series of presentations from the Regions on their internal controls and risk management, more latterly in a new proforma presentation format which facilitates ease of comparison across Regions.
The presentations were delivered by the Regional rOb rOwlEy Finance Directors, accompanied by their respective Regional COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN president, which gave the Committee the opportunity to ask questions face-to-face and gain a real insight into the internal control environment and risk management approach of each Region.
Where issues were reported the Committee gave full consideration to the cause, potential or actual impact and the response by management.
THIS REpORT GIVES AN OVERVIEW OF The Committee monitored the implementation of the changes THE RESpONSIBILITIES OF THE AuDIT required by provisions in the uK Corporate Governance Code the Code which applied to the 2015 financial year on the robust COMMITTEE AND HOW IT DISCHARGED assessment of risk including solvency and liquidity, ongoing THESE DuRING 2015, TOGETHER WITH monitoring of systems, the new going concern and material uncertainties disclosure and the business viability statement.
INFORMATION ON ITS MEMBERSHIp The Committee considered the control framework and processes AND GOVERNANCE.
required to enable the Board to make the relevant statements in the 2015 Annual Report.
Throughout 2015, the Committee received progress updates on a review by management of the Groups approach to risk management and internal controls.
The review resulted in implementation of certain changes to the control framework and processes and will continue to evolve as changes are embedded into the businesses.
Reviewed the key accounting judgments made by executive COMMITTEE MEMBERS management, taking into account the views of the external auditor.
The key areas of significant judgment were in respect of specific rob rowley Chairman adjusting items, goodwill impairment testing, provisions and contingent liabilities and tax balances, and further details on these Douglas Caster in relation to the 2015 Financial statements are set out on page 62 victoire fide margerie of this Report.
andrew reynolds Smith I continue to be satisfied that the Committee is working well, S tepped down from the Committee on resignation as a Director on 4 February 2016. is contributing effectively to the governance framework and is properly discharging its responsibilities.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors and Rob Rowley, the Chairman of the Committee, has the requisite financial experience.
rOb rOwlEy COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 61 meetings able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due The Audit Committee met five times during the year.
At the end of over the period covered by that assessment, prior to approval by most meetings the non-executive Directors who are members of the the Board.
Committee also meet the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit Reviewing and monitoring the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and the Responsible Business programme & Risk Manager without and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
the executive Directors or other members of management present.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal Between meetings the Chairman of the Audit Committee keeps in audit function, approving the remit of the function and ensuring contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, it has adequate standing and is free from management or other the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor and the Head of Internal restrictions.
Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders for their approval at the AGM, in relation to the appointment, information and support reappointment and removal of the external auditor and the The Committee may request the attendance at meetings of any Director approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the or employee as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
Subject to the current transitional provisions, ensuring that the audit The Committee identifies and ensures that it receives the information services contract is put out to competitive tender every 10 years it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This is complemented and supervising any such process and overseeing the selection by annual presentations made by the Regional presidents and Regional process for a new auditor.
Finance Directors on the internal control environment and risk Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence management within their respective Regions.
Training and development and objectivity.
information is made available to the members of the Audit Committee when appropriate.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant uK professional and regulatory requirements.
audit Committee terms of reference The Audit Committee has a clear set of responsibilities and these are Developing and implementing the policy on the engagement of the set out in its terms of reference and agreed by the Board.
These terms external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account of reference were reviewed and updated as necessary during the year relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit to ensure that they are wholly compliant with the September 2014 services by the external auditor.
version of the uK Corporate Governance Code which applied to the Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of 2015 financial year.
They are available on the Companys website and which it considers that action or improvement is needed and are summarised below: making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the The Committee has the authority, in accordance with its terms of Financial statements of the Group, preliminary announcements reference, to investigate any matters and may obtain external advice of results, half-year reports and any formal announcements relating at the cost of the Company, but did not do so during the year.
to the Groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them.
main areas of work in 2015 Reviewing accounting policies used by the Group and their During 2015, in addition to the areas of work outlined in the Chairmans consistent application across the Group.
letter above, the Committee: Reviewing whether the Group has followed appropriate accounting Reviewed the Groups 2015 half-year and full-year statements prior standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking to Board approval.
into account the views of the external auditor.
Made a recommendation to the Board that it is appropriate to Reviewing, prior to approval by the Board, the assessment of prepare the accounts for the year on a going concern basis.
whether it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of Reviewed the new requirements in relation to the viability statement accounting in preparing the financial statements and the see statement on page 21 of the Strategic Report and agreed identification of material uncertainties to the ability to do so over an appropriate time period for that statement and a reasonable a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval.
financial base case for that period, together with an in-depth Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and evaluation of the risks affecting the financial viability of the Company advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced over that timeframe, all for recommendation to the Board.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for Reviewed the scope of the external audit, and confirmed the shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, external auditors terms of engagement and fee structure.
Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and all Agreeing the processes to enable the ongoing monitoring and aspects of the service provided by the external auditor.
review of the scope, adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups Monitored the level of non-audit work of the external auditor, internal controls and risk management systems.
which in 2015 included services amounting to 0.3 million, Carrying out, at least annually, a review of the Groups internal mainly in connection with tax services.
controls and risk management systems, including procedures for Reviewed the controls and assurance processes that are in place identifying and assessing principal risks to the Groups business and to mitigate the Groups key risks.
the management and mitigation of those risks.
Reviewed the effectiveness of, and received reports from Reviewing, prior to approval by the Board, the assessment of management on, the Groups internal audit and risk management whether there is a reasonable expectation, taking the Groups systems and updates to the Groups governance, risk and position and principal risks into account, that the Group will be compliance plans.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 62 Governance REpORT OF THE AuDIT COMMITTEE continued Reviewed and approved the plans, work and overall effectiveness The significant areas of judgment considered by the Committee of the internal audit function, monitored its progress against the in relation to the 2015 Financial statements, and how these were plan and ensured that the appropriate resource was deployed addressed, were as follows: within the function.
Specific adjusting items Reviewed the systems of internal controls of, and risks managed in, In the Consolidated Income Statement the Group has again the Regions.
presented specific adjusting items separately in order to provide the best indication of the underlying performance of the Group, Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing process and related and details of the nature and quantum of the individual items procedures and policies.
are provided in note 6 to the Financial statements.
The Audit Reviewed material litigation.
Committee fully considered this principle and the individual items Reviewed compliance with and implementation of the Groups and, taking into account guidelines issued by the FRC and peer policies.
group disclosure of similar items, concluded that it is the best way Reviewed the status of the Groups export controls compliance to present the Groups results.
Intangible asset impairment testing Considered the alternatives to and the impact of FRS 101 Reduced Specific attention was again given to the intangible asset carrying Disclosure Framework before endorsing the decision to adopt it.
value of the Composites and Defence Systems C&DS cashReviewed implementation of major new operational and generating unit.
Based on the performance of the business during accounting software in North America.
2015 and latest expectations for the future, which were particularly informed by the reduced demand from the uK MoD, it was Public reporting considered appropriate and prudent to record an impairment The Committee, as requested by the Board, considered the Code charge of 5.8 million against the customer relationship intangible requirement for the Board to make a statement on whether the asset, which has been reported as a specific adjusting item.
Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
The latest financial projections and other assumptions support The Committee approached this as follows: the valuation of the remaining intangible assets.
Further information on the goodwill generally and the sensitivities associated with the Considered the questions which need to be answered in order to impairment calculations are given in note 11. evaluate whether the Annual Report and Accounts meets the fair, balanced and understandable test.
provisions and contingent liabilities The level of provisioning for known and contingent liabilities, including Reviewed the methodology used to construct the narrative those arising from trading, environmental issues and litigation, is an sections of the Annual Report.
issue where management and third-party judgments are important.
Reviewed the disclosure judgments made by the authors of each These are addressed through the Committee and the Board section and considered the balance of good and bad news in the discussing with various members of senior management the key Annual Report.
judgments made, supported, where appropriate, by relevant Received confirmation from external advisers that all regulatory external advice.
KpMG LLp also reports regularly on all material requirements are satisfied.
The Group recorded redundancy Received confirmation of verification of content from the authors and restructuring provisions in the ordinary course of business of each section.
totalling 4.1 million, which are charged against underlying earnings Received confirmation from the Chief Financial Officer that the but are disclosed separately to provide investors with additional narrative reports and Financial statements are consistent.
information to assist in their assessment of the Groups performance.
Tax balances Reviewed a first draft of the Annual Report and Accounts prior Accounting for current and deferred tax involves a range of to the financial year end.
The Committee and the Board address these issues Made a recommendation to the Board to assist the Board in through reporting from the Chief Financial Officer and the determining whether it is able to make the statement on whether Director of Group Tax, supported as necessary by external the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and professional advice.
The Committee reviewed the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and advised the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 63 audit Committee and the external auditor The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KpMG LLp that its general procedures and practices support the auditors independence and objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors objectivity and independence were safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KpMG LLp.
To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor is in summary as follows: Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external auditor, including: the review of their own work: they may not make management decisions: their work must not create a mutuality of interest: and they may not put themselves in the position of advocate.
Any permissible non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external auditor with a fee between 50,000 and 200,000 must be approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
projects in excess of 200,000 must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
Work which includes multiple phases is treated as a single project for approval purposes.
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any nonaudit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
During the year the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit work relative to the audit fee was 16% 2014: 20%.
The Committees policy is to undertake an annual review of the effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external auditors performance and independence before determining whether to undertake a formal review of the auditor including a re-tender presentation, or whether to put the Groups audit work out to full thirdparty tender.
The external auditor has processes in place to safeguard its independence and has written to the Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
The Group last changed its auditor in late 2001.
The external auditor rotated the partner responsible for the Groups audit work in 2008 and 2013.
The Code requires that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
The Company notes the guidance issued by the FRC on transitional arrangements on tendering which permit KpMG LLp to continue in office until 2018 without an audit tender.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and all aspects of the service provided by the auditor, and taking account of the assurance given by the auditor as to its independence, the Committee recommended to the Board that the Groups external audit work should be put out to third-party tender no earlier than 2018 when the current audit engagement partner is due to rotate and no later than 2023, which is the latest date by which the Company must change its auditor as permitted by the Eu Audit Regulations transitional arrangements.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authoritys Order on statutory audit services.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
