Corporate governance report DLC audit committee Meeting schedule and attendance The committee met four times during the year.
Meetings are planned around the Groups financial reporting cycle.
How the committee spent its time Financial External Risk management Internal audit reporting audit matters and internal matters 35% 29% controls 10% 17% Governance In addition to our normal financial and other reporting, risk and control agenda 9% Composition items, the committee undertook two significant pieces of work.
Members Committee Meeting attendance Following the announcement of throughout the year member since four meetings in the year results last year we invited tenders Stephen Harris March 2011 4 for the external audit of the Group.
John Nicholas, chairman October 2009 4 This process concluded in October Anne Quinn May 2007 4 with a recommendation to appoint  as the Other regular attendees Group auditors with effect from Chief executive officer the 2017 audit.
In addition, we commissioned an external review of Chief financial officer internal audit.
While always seeking Group financial controller ways to improve, Im pleased Heads of internal audit to report that our internal audit South African and UK representatives from Deloitte function is performing to a high standard.
Composition John Nicholas The committee is constituted as a statutory committee in respect of the duties set out in Chairman of the DLC audit committee the South African Companies Act 2008 and a DLC committee of the Boards in respect of other duties assigned to it by the Boards.
All members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
The Boards consider each member has appropriate knowledge and understanding of financial matters and commercial expertise, sufficient to enable them to consider effectively the financial and accounting issues that are presented to the committee.
The Boards consider John Nicholas, the chairman of the committee, to have specific recent and relevant financial experience: he is a chartered accountant and, until April 2015, was a member of the UK Financial Reporting Review Panel.
The full biographies detailing the experience of each member of the committee can be found on page 75.
In accordance with the Listings Requirements of the JSE, the committee has considered and satisfied itself that Andrew King, Mondis chief financial officer, has appropriate expertise and experience.
Andrew is a chartered accountant and throughout his career has held various finance and business development roles.
The committee has also considered and satisfied itself of the appropriateness of the expertise and adequacy of resources of the finance function and expertise of the senior management responsible for the finance function.
92 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The committee operates under formal terms of reference that are reviewed at least annually.
The committee considers that it has appropriately discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference during the year and has operated in compliance with relevant legal, regulatory and other responsibilities.
Apart from the significant issues relating to the financial statements, set out on pages 96 and 97, the external audit tender process explained on pages 99 and 100 and the external review of the internal audit function summarised on page 103, there were no material matters requiring review or decision during 2015, so the committee agenda covered the regular matters reserved for its consideration during the annual financial reporting cycle.
The committee always meets prior to meetings of the Boards to enable the committee to report to the Boards and provide any necessary recommendations or advice relevant for their deliberations.
During the year the committees key activities included: Financial reporting Reviewed the integrity of the full-year and half-yearly results and the announcement of those results and reported to the Boards on the committees findings.
Input was provided to the committee through detailed reports from the Group financial controller and Deloitte.
There was particular focus on any significant financial reporting judgements and disclosures, and the assessment of the going concern basis of accounting.
Reviewed the Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements with due regard to the tone and consistency of reporting, and that the report as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable and reported to the Boards on the committees conclusions see page 98 for more information.
Reviewed and discussed the audit management letter.
Reviewed the interim management statements including consideration of the appropriateness to continue with issuing quarterly statements.
Having taken into account our desire to keep the market informed and our competitor reporting cycles it was decided to retain interim trading updates but to adjust the timing to better fit the Groups financial cycle.
Reviewed accounting policies that would be applied for the year ending 31 December 2015 noting that there had been no significant new accounting policies applicable to the 2015 financial year.
Reviewed new accounting pronouncements to existing accounting standards effective 1 January 2015, confirming that all had been adopted and that the Group was compliant although none had resulted in any material impact on the Groups financial reporting.
Considered and approved the early adoption of IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements that included amendments relating to disclosure.
Reviewed the requirement for a longer-term viability statement, particularly focusing on ensuring that there was a robust process in place to support the viability statement within the business planning cycle and to provide the committee and the Boards with the required level of comfort in order to make the statement.
Mondis current procedures and any changes to be introduced in order for the committee and Boards to make the appropriate judgements were considered.
There was particular debate regarding the appropriate period that should be covered by the statement see page 43 for more information.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 93 Corporate governance report External audit matters Undertook a full audit tender process resulting in a recommendation to the Boards to change the external auditors for the Group see pages 99 and 100 for more information.
Finalised the rotation of the South African external audit partner following completion ofthe 2014 audit.
The committee has monitored the change and has been comfortable with managements feedback on the transition to the new audit partner and with the reporting to and interface with the committee by the new audit partner.
Reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte see pages 101 and102 formore information.
Reviewed Deloittes reappointment as auditors for the 2015 audit and made a recommendation to the Boards.
Reviewed and approved the external audit plan, having taken account of the proposed scope, materiality and audit risks as well as the proposed fees.
Received a report at each meeting of any non-audit services approved by either the chairman of the committee or the chief financial officer in line with the Groups policy seepages 102 and 103 for more information.
Reviewed and agreed the engagement letters and representation letters.
Held a meeting with Deloitte without management present.
Risk management and internal controls Undertook a detailed review of the Groups risk management policy, plan and tolerance levels.
Considered the likelihood, impact criteria and risk rating matrix and the Group risk map as well as ensuring that there had been a robust process to assess the risks.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems.
Key elements of the Groups system of internal control were discussed.
The committee was satisfied that the development and improvement of risk assurance was managed onan ongoing basis see pages 38 to 42 for more information.
At each committee meeting undertook a more in-depth review of two or three of the most significant Group risks.
Received a detailed presentation on the IT risk management framework, IT risk register, activities and mitigations with a particular focus on cyber security, and reported on this tothe Boards see page 95 for more information.
Internal audit matters Reviewed and agreed the internal audit plan, confirming the continued focus on the Groups key risk areas to ensure effective management within the context of our business objectives and that appropriate controls are in place.
The committee confirmed that all material operations were covered and that there was an appropriate degree of financial and geographic coverage.
Received reports from the heads of internal audit at each meeting that provided an update on the activities of the function see page 103 for more information.
Received and considered the external report from Ernst & Young LLP following their review of Mondis internal audit function see page 103 for more information.
The report helped inform the committees view on the independence, resources, appropriateness and effectiveness of internal audit.
Held a meeting with the heads of internal audit without management present.
Governance and other For JSE purposes reviewed the appropriateness of the chief financial officer and the effectiveness of the finance functions see page 92 for more information.
Monitored and reviewed the continued implementation of those elements of the Groups Code of Business Ethics reserved for review by the committee, as well as the supporting framework of the Business Integrity Policy.
Monitored and reviewed the Groups competition compliance programme, noting in particular the role of the divisional competition compliance committees that are both chaired by the chief financial officer.
Reviewed the committees terms of reference, performance and work programme to ensure the activities of the committee reflected current regulation, governance and best practice.
A proposal to implement changes to the terms of reference was presented to the Boards and approved.
94 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements IT risk management oversight During the year the committee requested and received a detailed presentation on the Groups IT risk management processes and how these are managed, with a particular focus on cyber security.
The Groups IT risk management framework was explained with comfort obtained that it was holistic and robust, having been audited by independent third parties.
The committee reviewed the IT risk register, confirming that all aspects had been covered security, compliance and availability and noting that the top five risks were all in the area of cyber security.
It was further noted that cyber security was driving the main mitigation activities, particularly in the areas of network design and security architecture.
Like many major organisations, IT risk is now regarded as a significant risk see page 42 for more information.
The committee was encouraged by the level of focus being given to cyber security within the organisation and will now receive regular reports.
The emphasis being placed on IT security technology, processes and employee awareness was welcomed by the committee.
Overall the committee concluded that the Groups IT risk management was effective and that management ensured that it was subject to continuous monitoring and improvement.
Internal control The Groups system of internal control, embedded in all key operations, is designed to provide reasonable rather than absolute assurance that the Groups business objectives will be achieved, within risk tolerance levels defined by the Boards.
Full details of Mondis risk management and internal control framework can be found in the Strategic report on pages 38 to 42.
The committee has reviewed the risk management process and the Groups system of internal controls.
The committee considers that the system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
Significant issues related to the financial statements The committee has considered each of the following items based on discussions with, and submissions by, management and satisfied itself as to the accounting treatment and presentation thereof.
The most significant items were discussed with the external auditors during the planning stage and on completion of the audit.
These issues are broadly similar to those addressed by the committee during 2014.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 95 Corporate governance report The key considerations in relation to the 2015 financial statements were: Matter considered Action Special items are non-recurring financial items which the The committee has critically reviewed each item presented by Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face management as being special to ensure that the items are in line of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the with the Groups accounting policy.
The committee considered underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
The both the quantification and presentation of such items.
classification of an item as special is based on judgement and The committee has reviewed the adequacy of the descriptions generally must exceed 5 million and or be material in the of the special items in the financial statements and the Chief context of the current years financial performance.
The net special item charge of 57 million before tax comprised The committee has resolved that, with effect from 1 January restructuring and closure costs of 45 million and related 2016, the quantitative threshold for recognition of special impairments of 4 million for the closures of the Lohja kraft paper items be increased to 10 million due to the significantly higher mill in Finland, a Consumer Packaging operation in Spain and profitability of the Group since the original threshold was four Industrial Bags plants: and 8 million write off of a receivable established.
and provision for settlement of a legal case relating to the 2012 Nordenia acquisition.
Detail of the special items is included in the Chief financial officers review on page 28 and in note 3 of the financial statements.
The Group operates a number of large, capital-intensive facilities At the time of approval of significant capital projects, the and incurs significant amounts of capital expenditure.
In 2015, Boards approve the underlying assumptions including the the Group incurred 595 million of capital expenditure.
estimated useful lives of these investments.
The committee has reviewed the submissions by management in respect of the Significant projects completed in 2015 included the first phase significant capital expenditure during the year, summarising the ofthe project in wiecie for the replacement of the recovery depreciation rates applied, estimated residual values and the boiler and coal-fired boilers, a number of rebuilds of paper carrying values of the Groups tangible assets.
machines in wiecie, Syktyvkar and tt and the installation of new equipment in the Groups corrugated packaging operations.
The committee has interrogated management and satisfied itself of the appropriateness of the assumptions made, the These projects are more fully described in the Chief executives consistency of those assumptions compared to the initial review on pages 20 to 25 and details of the Groups tangible approvals and the basis on which any changes were made.
fixed assets are provided in note 10 of the financial statements.
The committee has also considered the internal audit reports completed in respect of the Groups procurement and capital expenditure processes, in which there were no significant weaknesses identified.
96 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Matter considered Action The Group has operations in a number of geographical locations The committee receives regular reports from management and is subject to a number of tax jurisdictions.
about ongoing tax audits and new legislative developments that may impact the Groups tax positions.
In particular, the recognition of deferred tax assets arising from accumulated tax losses and the future utilisation of The committee has considered a report from management such tax losses requires a significant degree of judgement by outlining the key judgements relating to the recognition of management about the future profitability and performance of deferred tax assets and satisfied itself that the assumptions the underlying businesses.
made are reasonable and consistent from year to year.
See note 7 of the financial statements.
The committee has evaluated the Groups most significant tax exposures, the corporate judgements and related tax provisions recognised by management and satisfied itself that these are appropriate.
In addition to property, plant and equipment of3,554 million, The committee considered a report from management outlining goodwill of 590 million is included as an asset in the statement that there were no significant indicators of impairment in respect of financial position.
of its property, plant and equipment or intangible assets, except for those assets subject to closure as discussed in special As set out in the accounting policies, the Group reviews its items.
assets at least annually and whenever there is any indication thatcertain of its assets may be impaired.
The critical underlying assumptions and outcomes applied in the annual goodwill impairment tests were reviewed by the See notes 10, 11 and 12 of the financial statements.
committee and compared to the Groups budget and the current macroeconomic environment.
The committee considered the sensitivities underlying the primary assumptions to determine the consequences that reasonable possible changes in such assumptions may have onthe recognised value of the underlying assets.
The committee has satisfied itself that, except for the impairments related to closures of operations, there was no impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill or intangible assets.
Significant judgement is required in determining the assumptions The assumptions applied to both the forestry assets and to be applied for the valuation of the Groups forestry assets and retirement benefits were evaluated by the committee.
Such assumptions are based, committee considered the basis on which these assumptions as far as possible, on observable market data and, in the case were determined, as well as comparing the assumptions both of the retirement benefit obligations, the input and advice of to prior years and market developments during 2015.
committee satisfied itself that the assumptions, and the changes to those assumptions when compared to the year ended 31 The most significant assumptions and sensitivities are disclosed December 2014, were appropriate.
in note 13 for the forestry assets and 22 for retirement benefits in the financial statements.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 97 Corporate governance report Fair, balanced and understandable A key role of the committee is to ensure that the interests of shareholders are protected, in particular that there is robust financial reporting with good internal controls in place and appropriate accounting practices and policies combined with sound judgement.
Although oversight and review of material financial reporting matters are considered throughout the year, at the request of the Boards, the committee assessed the integrity of the Groups Integrated report and financial statements 2015 and the clarity, completeness and consistency of disclosures.
Oversight through the year Review confirmed Recommendation Review of applicable accounting Well documented planning and The committee reported policies and pronouncements procedures for the preparation of itsfindings and conclusion and their application the report to the Boards Review of regular financial Collaborative approach between results and announcements all parties required to contribute to the report Reports from Group financial controller and Deloitte Basis of preparation consistent with financial reporting throughout the year Reports from internal audit All significant issues had been considered Messaging was consistent particularly the narrative reflecting the financials Review included Conclusion Provision of an outline plan including content After completion of the detailed review the and structure, design concepts and timetable committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Groups Integrated report and Consideration of regulatory and financial statements 2015, were fair, balanced governance requirements for reporting and understandable Review of detailed reports from the Group That the report accurately reflected the financial controller and Deloitte providing information shareholders would require in the opportunity for debate and challenge order to assess the Groups performance, Summaries of areas where management business model and strategy judgements had been made Consideration of going concern and longer-term viability Separate meeting with Deloitte without management present Sufficient opportunity to review drafts Committee focus in 2016 While the committee will continue to operate within its terms of reference and ensure that the meetings address all regular matters reserved for its consideration, the following additional key activities are expected to require the committees attention during 2016: overseeing the preparation for transition from Deloitte to PwC as auditors to the Group following completion of the 2016 audit: and reviewing and updating the policy and procedures relating to non-audit services to take account of new regulatory requirements.
98 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements External audit Deloitte & Touche in South Africa and Deloitte LLP in the UK together Deloitte were appointed as auditors at the time of Mondis demerger from Anglo American plc in July 2007.
Following the conclusion of the 2014 audit the South African audit partner rotated off the Mondi audit and a new audit partner has been in place for the 2015 audit.
The UK audit partner has been in place since the audit of the 2012 results and would be scheduled to rotate off the audit in 2016.
As reported in more detail below, the audit was put out to tender during the year, culminating in the decision to change the audit firm after the conclusion of the 2016 audit from Deloitte to PwC.
External audit tender Background In last years report the committee confirmed that it anticipated putting the audit out to tender ahead of the rotation of the UK audit partner in 2016 and would focus on this during 2015.
Early in the year the committee reviewed the new regulatory requirements relating to audit tendering, noting the need to retender the audit at least every 10 years and to change auditor at least every 20 years.
While Deloitte were appointed as auditors of Mondi upon its demerger from Anglo American plc in 2007, the committee took into consideration the fact that Deloitte had been the auditors of Anglo American plc prior to the demerger.
It was decided that the audit should be put out to tender, with a view to changing auditors, to be effective from the 2017 audit, thereby coinciding with the rotation of the UK audit partner and representing a 10- year term by Deloitte as Mondis auditors.
Process February AprilAugust July October Consideration and Data room access Formal proposals Decision made by agreement to put provided to firms submitted by each audit committee audit out to tender invited to tender audit firm and and recommendation meetings with audit made to Boards committee chairman for approval October April June Initial meetings with Half-day workshops Presentations audit firms invited with each audit firm by audit firms to to tender audit committee Decision on which firms would tender The committee, having been clear from the outset that Deloitte should not be included due to their length of tenure, considered which firms should be invited to tender.
A number of factors were taken into account when making the selection, including the ability of the audit firm to effectively manage the complexities of Mondis DLC structure and its geographic footprint.
Following an initial assessment of the wider universe of potential service providers, three audit firms were invited to tender and the process was overseen by the chairman of the audit committee.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 99 Corporate governance report External audit tender continued Interviews and discovery workshops Having defined the process and chosen the firms to tender, initial meetings were held with each firm led by the committee chairman and supported by the chief financial officer and Group financial controller.
These initial meetings were two-way, providing the audit firms with an opportunity to gain a greater understanding of Mondi and the expectations for the audit, and for Mondi to start to build relationships and gain an initial impression of how each firm would manage the audit.
Access was then provided to a data room which provided information on such matters as the Groups structure, recent results, systems and controls and risk map.
This initial information sharing phase was followed by half-day workshop style meetings with each firm.
Attendees from each firm included their proposed audit partners as well as key personnel who they proposed would take responsibility for key audit locations around the globe as well as key specialists.
For Mondi the chief financial officers and financial controllers from the Group and each division, together with the Group tax and treasury managers, heads of internal audit and company secretaries, were all involved.
These meetings went into more detail on how Mondi operates and provided greater insight into how each firm would structure the audit at an operational level and work with management.
At the end of the workshops each firm was evaluated and scored against key criteria including the overall audit coverage and scope, levels of materiality, understanding of the business and audit risk areas, depth of knowledge and experience.
This feedback from the workshops was shared with the committee chairman.
Written proposals Following the workshops each audit firm submitted a formal written proposal detailing their proposed audit teams, geographic footprint alignment, audit approach, independence considerations and transition approach and their fee proposals.
The proposals were evaluated by the chairman of the committee, the chief financial officer and selected senior management followed by one-on-one meetings with the committee chairman.
After these meetings two firms were recommended to make presentations to the committee.
Tender presentations Two firms made presentations to the full committee in October.
The presentations included the proposed audit approach, team structure, specialist resources and global coordination approach and allowed time for questions.
After the presentations there was detailed debate as to the merits of each firm and the differentiating factors and consideration against the criteria and key factors determined for Mondis auditors.
The committee members agreed upon a recommendation to be made to the Boards.
Conclusion As was confirmed in Mondis announcement in October, after the conclusion of a thorough tender process and careful consideration, the Boards agreed with the committees decision to appoint PwC.
Accordingly, Deloitte will carry out the audit of the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and, following completion of this audit, PwC will be appointed as Mondi Limited and Mondi plcs statutory auditor, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meetings in May 2017.
100 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements External audit independence, objectivity and effectiveness A formal framework for the assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process and quality of the audit has been adopted by the committee, covering all aspects of the audit service provided by Deloitte.
While part of the assessment is managed annually through the use of questionnaires to the committee members, key management and finance function personnel directly involved with the audit process at Group, divisional and business unit level, it is treated as an ongoing review throughout the cycle.
Evaluation focus Robustness of audit process Audit quality, including quality controls Audit partners and team, including skills, character and knowledge Independence and objectivity Formal reporting Inputs Audit committee Continual monitoring of audit performance throughout the year Considered the appropriateness of the audit planning including the scope, coverage, materiality levels and significant audit risks Reviewed the quality of reporting to the committee, the level of challenge and professional scepticism and the understanding demonstrated by Deloitte of the business of the Group Reviewed the coordination between the South African and UK audit partners, the quality of the audit team, technical skills and experience and the allocation of resources during the audit Considered how Deloitte and management interact and the level of challenge, especially relating to critical judgements Feedback from regular meetings held between the chairman of the committee and the audit engagement partners without management present Feedback from questionnaires issued to committee members including views on how Deloitte have supported the work of the committee and communication with the committee Considered the effectiveness of Mondis policies and procedures for maintaining auditor independence Management Feedback provided to the committee directly from engagement with the chief financial officer, Group financial controller and heads of internal audit Feedback from questionnaires issued at corporate, divisional and business unit level to those personnel involved with the audit, providing responses to key questions regarding the audit and their interaction with Deloitte Deloitte Provided the committee with confirmation that they operate in accordance with the ethical standards required of audit firms Reported on the policies and procedures they have in place to maintain their independence An independent Deloitte audit partner, who had no other connection with Mondi, gathered feedback from senior management involved in the audit and provided a report to the committee.
He focused on efficiency of the audit process: technical quality: query handling: global team coordination: timeliness of communication and reporting: and adherence to independence rules Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 101 Corporate governance report External audit independence, objectivity and effectiveness continued Regulators The UK Financial Reporting Councils 2015 report on Audit Quality Inspections included a review of audits carried out by Deloitte.
Deloitte shared the findings with the committee and confirmed how they were addressing the areas highlighted for improvement Key outputs The quality of the audit partners and team were confirmed with no material issues raised in the feedback from the questionnaires issued, although some improvement areas were noted at subsidiary entity level, there had also been a smooth transition of audit partners in South Africa The audit had been well planned and delivered with work completed on schedule and management comfortable that any key findings had been raised sufficiently early in the process, active engagement on misstatements and appropriate judgements on materiality Deloitte continued to demonstrate a strong understanding of the Group and had identified and focused on the areas of greatest risk Deloittes reporting to the committee was clear, open and thorough, including explanations of the rationale for particular conclusions as appropriate From the committees interaction with Deloitte and input from management it was confirmed that there had been an appropriate level of challenge Conclusion The committee, having considered all relevant matters, has concluded that it is satisfied that auditor independence, objectivity and effectiveness have been maintained.
Following the conclusion of the review the committee made a recommendation to, which was accepted by, the Boards that resolutions to reappoint Deloitte be proposed at the Annual General Meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondiplc, to be held in May 2016.
The committee confirms its compliance for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The committee also confirmed that Deloitte & Touche is included in the JSE list of accredited auditors.
Non-audit services A policy is in place that governs the provision of non-audit services provided by Deloitte to Mondi, including the requirements for the pre-approval of such services.
In order to limit the non-audit services provided by the external auditor, the policy restricts those services by type and monetary limit.
Where pre-approval is required the business must submit a formal request setting out the objectives, scope of work, likely fee level and the rationale for requiring the work to be carried out by Deloitte rather than another service provider.
Each request is reviewed, and where appropriate challenged, by the company secretarys office before being passed, dependent upon the limits defined by the committee, to either the audit committee chairman or chief financial officer for approval.
In certain cases, where a request either falls outside the delegated limits or the nature of the service to be provided warrants, requests are referred to the committee for consideration.
102 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The committee monitors compliance with the policy, receiving reports at each meeting detailing all approved non-audit services.
This enables regular consideration and oversight of a key threat to auditor independence and objectivity.
The majority of non-audit services are audit-related assurance and tax compliance services.
During 2015 examples were the provision of an audit comfort letter for the EMTN programme, advice in connection with applications for government grants in South Africa relating to capital expenditure and assistance with tax submissions for expatriate employees.
The committee has noted the further restriction of non-audit services being introduced by the EU Audit Regulation and Directive, and will be undertaking a review of the Groups Speakout policy and procedures with this in mind.
The Group has a confidential reporting hotline During the audit tender process a factor considered by the committee was how the audit called Speakout operated by an independent firm that would replace Deloitte would manage the transition and ensure that any services third party.
Speakout, monitored by the currently being provided to Mondi would be cleared before appointment.
PwC presented audit committee, is a simple, accessible and confidential channel through which our a proposal that incorporated the effective management and anticipated completion of employees, customers, suppliers, managers outstanding services prior to their formal appointment and a procedure to monitor this has or other stakeholders can raise concerns been put in place.
about conduct that seems contrary to Mondis values.
It makes communication channels The breakdown of the fees paid to Deloitte, including the split between audit and non-audit available to any person in the world who has information about unethical practice in fees, is included in note 4 to the financial statements on page 156.
The non-audit fees for the Groups operations.
During 2015, 133 2015 represent 13% of the audit fee paid.
2014: 129 Speakout messages were received covering a number of topics, in particular the Internal audit reporting of HR-related concerns, potential business irregularities or perceived fraudulent The audit committee has primary responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the scope activities.
The committee receives a report at and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and appoints and removes the each meeting of Speakout messages received heads of internal audit the equivalent of the chief audit executive as envisaged by King III.
in the period since the prior meeting and ensures that appropriate investigation into each The heads of internal audit have direct access to, and responsibility to, the committee and message has been undertaken and responses work closely with the committee in liaison with Deloitte.
given with actions taken where any allegation proves to have some foundation.
Each year the committee considers and approves the internal audit plan which is designed to focus on the Groups key risks to ensure that they are managed effectively within the context of our business objectives and that appropriate internal controls are in place.
The committee ensures that all material operations are covered and that there is an appropriate degree of financial and geographical coverage.
Every Mondi operation is visited at least once every five years with all major plants audited annually.
Reports are given at each committee meeting providing an update on activities, progress against plan, results from audits carried out and managements response to address any areas highlighted for improvement.
The committee will consider deviations from plan as the need arises during the year, usually in response to a material acquisition or change in the Groups risk profile highlighted through audit reports and through matters raised via the confidential reporting hotline, Speakout.
The committee regularly challenges the nature and speed of managements response to issues raised in audits and to Speakout messages in order to be satisfied that this has been appropriate to the circumstances.
Maintaining sound oversight and control of activities through the use of internal audit reviews is considered by the committee to be a key element of its work.
The committee also monitors the staffing and resources available to the internal audit function and the quality of those resources.
During the year an external review of the internal audit function was undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP with a full report presented to the committee.
The review concluded that the internal audit function is fit for purpose, meeting its mandate to provide assurance primarily in the financial and operational areas.
Of particular note was the clear affirmation that the function is independent and objective.
Some recommendations were put forward, mainly in the areas of knowledge sharing and the greater use of technology by the team.
All recommendations are receiving attention and the committee will monitor progress.
The committee has concluded that the heads of internal audit provide appropriate leadership of the internal audit function, which remains effective in carrying out its remit.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 103
