Corporate governance report Composition of the Boards Compliance statement Mondis dual listed company DLC structure requires us to comply with the principles contained in the South African King III Code of Corporate Governance Principles available Joint chairmen at www.
co. za and the September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance 2 Executives 3 Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
It is the view of the Boards that, except as referred to below, Mondi has complied throughout the year with all the provisions of these codes.
The Boards determined that the DLC sustainable development committee provided the appropriate oversight for the sustainability reporting in the Integrated report and financial Non-executives statements 2015 rather than the DLC audit committee, as recommended under King 4 III.
Due to the nature of Mondis business the DLC sustainable development committee regularly reviews all key sustainability issues for the Group, meeting six times a year and reporting directly to the Boards.
Therefore it is considered to be better placed to review Diversity of the Boards the integrity of the sustainability reporting.
The DLC sustainable development committee % has therefore provided the assurance on sustainability issues in the Integrated report and financial statements 2015.
Female 22% Male A more detailed analysis of Mondis compliance with King III is available on the 78% MondiGroup website at www.
The Boards note the review of King III that is currently being undertaken.
We are monitoring developments and await the final outcome at which time we will review any potential implications for Mondi.
Composition of the Boards The directors holding office during the year ended 31 December 2015 are listed below, together with their attendance at board meetings.
As at 31 December 2015 there were nine directors: the joint chairmen, four non-executive directors, each considered by the Boards to be independent, and three executive directors.
While the size and composition of the Boards and its committees are kept under review by the nominations committee, following the appointment of Dominique Reiniche during the year, we are of the view that collectively there is an appropriate balance of capabilities, business experience, independence and diversity on the Boards to meet the Groups current business needs.
The directors have experience gained from a range of international organisations.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, can be found on pages 74 and 75.
76 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015
