64 Governance REpORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Chairmans introduction 2015 was once again an important year for the Committee with a number of changes to the Board.
In January 2015, the Committee concluded the search for a new Chief Executive Officer following Mark Robertshaws departure at the end of 2014, with the announcement that pete Raby would be joining Morgan as Chief Executive Officer on 1 August 2015.
Recognising the importance of ongoing refreshment of the Board and continual review of the skills and experience on the Board to meet the needs of the Company, and following the experience of 2014 when three long-serving non-executive Directors stepped down from the Board, the Committee commenced a process to recruit an additional non-executive Director.
The search concluded with the appointment, announced on 22 January 2016, of Helen Bunch as non-executive Director with effect from 24 February 2016.
The Committee has spent a great deal of its time during 2015 evaluating aNDrEw ShilSTON the Boards succession needs, working closely with executive search COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN agents to evaluate the skills and experience required to balance the Board and, following the creation of a candidate specification, reviewing longand short-lists of candidates.
Looking ahead, the Nomination Committee will continue to review skills requirements against long-term strategy, and take into account THE MAIN ROLE OF THE NOMINATION the outcomes of the strategic review.
COMMITTEE IS TO LEAD THE pROCESS There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments FOR BOARD AppOINTMENTS AND to the Board which is described in more detail below.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for TO MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO diversity, including gender.
THE BOARD ON THE AppOINTMENT OF NEW DIRECTORS.
aNDrEw ShilSTON COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN meetings COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Committee met formally three times during 2015.
In addition, a number of working groups of members of the Committee met between scheduled meetings to progress the recruitment of the andrew Shilston Chairman Chief Executive Officer and to recruit a new non-executive Director.
Douglas Caster victoire fide margerie information and support Pete raby The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any andrew reynolds Smith other Director or member of management, for all or part of any rob rowley meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
S tepped down from the Committee on resignation as a Director Nomination Committee terms of reference on 4 February 2016.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year.
Joined the Committee on appointment as a Director on 1 August 2015.
The terms of reference are available to view on the Companys website.
A majority of members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 65 main areas of work during 2015 The external search agent produced a long-list of candidates for The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge the role.
and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership Interviews were held with a short-list of candidates and members needs of the Group.
The work of the Committee in discharging those of the Nomination Committee participated in interviews with the responsibilities in respect of 2015 included: preferred candidates.
Concluding the selection process in relation to the appointment The Committee selected its preferred candidate based on objective of a new Chief Executive Officer.
criteria and recommended their appointment to the Board.
Led the search for a new non-executive Director, resulting in the selection and recommended appointment of Helen Bunch as The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors announced on 22 January 2016 and who will be appointed to the are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the Board with effect from 24 February 2016.
Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant Considering the reappointment of the non-executive Directors commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with at the conclusion of their specified time in office and the Directors an indication of the time involved.
The Board is informed of any annual re-election at the 2015 AGM.
subsequent changes with additional commitments disclosed before they Reviewing, for recommendation to the Board, the Boards policy are accepted.
The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors on diversity.
do not include a notice period.
appointments to the board board Diversity Policy The Board discussed the Groups approach to talent management and The Board firmly believes in the value of diversity of perspective, succession planning at senior levels in July and November 2015 and including background, nationality, experience and gender, at all levels of noted progress to date in increasing succession strength.
Succession the Company as well as on the Board.
As is not unusual in engineering planning for appointments to the Board and for senior management or manufacturing businesses, diversity in gender is the hardest to achieve.
will be a continued area of focus for the Committee in 2016.
It is very gratifying, however, to see that at the graduate recruitment level The process to recruit pete Raby, Chief Executive Officer, the Group is now having great success in attracting good candidates of is described below: both sexes and many nationalities.
In 2015, 41% of the graduate intake The skills and attributes required of an incoming Chief Executive 2014: 32% were female.
At the senior level, 13% 2014: 5% of senior Officer were discussed and a job specification was agreed.
managers and one of the Board Directors are female.
Following a selection exercise in which a number of external search agents were considered and three firms were interviewed, Spencer New appointments to the Board are made on merit, with a focus on Stuart was appointed and briefed.
Spencer Stuart has signed up international and industrial experience, but diversity of perspective and to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms which the mix of skills around the Board table are also taken into account when includes provisions on diversity.
Spencer Stuart has no other selecting potential candidates.
During the selection process for new connection with the Company other than conducting psychometric non-executive Directors, the Committee has, and will, continue to use testing for senior executives in 2013. a search agent who has signed up to the voluntary code of conduct The Committee agreed that the Chairman of the Committee, which ensures that diversity is considered when developing a candidate the Senior Independent Director and Victoire fide Margerie should pool.
The brief to the search agent is to put forward a long-list of continue to progress the search between formal meetings of the candidates from a wide range of backgrounds to ensure that the best Committee.
The search was conducted globally and a long-list of candidates was When monitoring the development of leadership and considering the considered, including external and internal, international and female succession planning for executive management, the Board will take into candidates.
The search agent travelled to meet candidates outside account the need for talented leaders with the skills needed to lead a the uK.
global company with a growing presence in the key world economies Short-listed candidates were then interviewed by all members of and manage the associated macro economic challenges.
Spencer Stuart then conducted an independent assessment and references were taken up before the The Board will continue to monitor whether it is taking diversity into decision was made and announced on 30 January 2015 to appoint account when planning executive succession and appointing new Board pete Raby as Chief Executive Officer, commencing his role on members, with the Board effectiveness evaluation process also 1 August 2015. addressing diversity.
The process for appointing Helen Bunch as a non-executive Director The Board has discussed whether a quota for female Directors should be is described below: introduced by a certain date, but feels this is unrealistic given the current Following consideration of a number of leading firms, the gender composition of senior executives, the nature of the business and Committee appointed Spencer Stuart as external search agent.
the competition for female non-executive Directors.
Spencer Stuart has signed up to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms which includes provisions on diversity.
As mentioned previously, Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Company other than conducting psychometric testing for senior executives in 2013.
In the light of its discussions on the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board, the Committee considered and formulated a candidate specification for the role.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
