50 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS aNDrEw ShilSTON PETE raby CHAIRMAN CHIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICER KEviN DaNGErfiElD DOuGlaS CaSTEr CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SENIOR INDEpENDENT DIRECTOR aNDrEw ShilSTON PETE raby DOuGlaS CaSTEr CbE NON-ExECuTIVE CHAIRMAN AGED 60 CHIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICER AGED 48 SENIOR INDEpENDENT DIRECTOR AGED 62 Appointed: May 2012 Chairman Designate: Appointed: August 2015.
Career history: pete joined Morgan Advanced Career history: Bringing to the Board broad Career history: Having joined Rolls-Royce Holdings Materials in August 2015 as Chief Executive Officer.
experience as an electronics systems engineer and plc in 2002, Andrew was Finance Director from Before joining Morgan Advanced Materials, pete was company director, Douglas started his career with 2003 until his retirement in 2011 and prior to this president of the Communications and Connectivity the Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before moving he was the Finance Director at Enterprise Oil plc.
pete held a number of senior to Schlumberger in 1986 and then to Dowty as Andrew was previously a non-executive Director positions at Cobham over a nine-year period.
prior Engineering Director of Sonar & Communication of Cairn Energy plc, where he chaired the Audit to Cobham, pete was a partner at McKinsey & Systems in 1988.
In 1992, he became Managing Committee.
Company, specialising in the aerospace, defence and Director of that business and, after participating power and gas sectors.
pete has a phD in satellite in the management buy-out that formed ultra Additional appointments: Senior Independent navigation and an M. Eng from the Department of Electronics, joined the Board in October 1993.
Director of Bp p. l. c. : non-executive Director of Electronic and Electrical Engineering at the In April 2000, he became Managing Director of Circle Holdings plc.
ultras Information & power Systems division.
Committees: Nomination Chair and In April 2004 he was appointed Chief Operating Additional appointments: None.
Officer and became Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed deputy Chairman in April 2010 and became Chairman of ultra in April 2011.
Additional appointments: Chairman of ultra KEviN DaNGErfiElD Electronics Holdings plc and Chairman of Metalysis CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AGED 49 Limited.
Committees: Audit, Nomination and Career history: Kevin joined Morgan Advanced Remuneration Chair.
Materials in July 2000 as Deputy Group Financial Controller before being promoted to Group Financial Controller.
He was appointed to the Board on becoming Chief Financial Officer in August 2006.
Before joining Morgan Advanced Materials, Kevin worked for London International Group plc and Virgin Retail Europe Limited.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with .
Additional appointments: Non-executive Director of e2v technologies plc.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 51 aNDrEw rEyNOlDS SmiTh rOb rOwlEy NON-ExECuTIVE DIRECTOR NON-ExECuTIVE DIRECTOR aNDrEw rEyNOlDS SmiTh rOb rOwlEy NON-ExECuTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 49 NON-ExECuTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 66 Appointed: May 2013.
Career history: Andrew is the Chief Executive of Career history: Rob joined Reuters in 1978 where Smiths Group plc, having taken up the position he held various senior management positions, in September 2015.
Before joining Smiths Group, including Finance Director from 1990 to 2000.
Andrew held a number of senior positions at GKN He retired as a director of Reuters Group plc plc across its automotive businesses before in December 2001.
Rob was previously Deputy becoming Chief Executive, Automotive at GKN plc, Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc, and a nonhaving been a member of the Board since 2007. executive Director of Intu properties plc, prior to GKN, he held various general management prudential plc and Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
and functional positions at Ingersoll Rand, Siebe plc.
Additional appointments: Non-executive Director, and Delphi Automotive Systems.
Andrew is a Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior former Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing Council Independent Director of Taylor Wimpey plc: and a former member of the Ministerial Advisory non-executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Group for Manufacturing.
Committee and Senior Independent Director of Additional appointments: Chief Executive of Smiths Moneysupermarket.
com Group pLC: nonGroup plc.
executive Director and Senior Independent Director of Greene King plc: non-executive Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
Director and Chairman of Audit and Risk & Security Committee of Camelot uK Lotteries Limited.
Committees: Audit Chair, Nomination and Remuneration.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 52 Governance CORpORATE GOVERNANCE continued Statement of compliance with the uK Corporate Matters reserved There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board Governance Code including setting the Groups strategic aims and objectives, approving Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 the Company has significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or been in compliance with the relevant provisions of the September 2014 disposal of companies businesses, and treasury and intellectual property version of the uK Corporate Governance Code the Code which transactions, the review of the effectiveness of risk management applies to the 2015 financial year, with the exception of the annual processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
The bonus plan which does not include malus and clawback provisions.
The schedule of matters reserved is available to view on the Companys Remuneration Committee has made a decision to introduce malus and website.
The Board intends to review the schedule of matters reserved clawback into the annual bonus plan in respect of bonus earned for the and limitations of authority within the Group to ensure they remain 2016 financial year which, subject to the performance measures being appropriate following the strategic review.
met, is due to be paid in March 2017.
Delegation of authority As reported in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 60 to 63, The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to three the Group has not put the external audit contract out to tender during committees, namely the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration the last 10 years in accordance with provision C. 3.7 of the Code.
The memberships, roles and activities of these The external auditor was last appointed in 2001.
The Board has committees are described in separate reports: the Report of the Audit decided to take advantage of the Financial Reporting Council FRC s Committee is set out on pages 60 to 63: the Report of the Nomination current guidance on transitional arrangements which allow the Group Committee is set out on pages 64 and 65: and the Remuneration to defer a formal third-party tender process until at least the end of the report is set out on pages 66 to 88.
The full terms of reference of current external audit engagement partners tenure in 2018.
Further the Board committees are available upon request and are also available information on the timing of a competitive tender process is set out on the Companys website.
on page 63 of the Report of the Audit Committee.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group and The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Effectiveness, operational matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders.
The executive Directors together with the Group statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles Human Resources Director, the Company Secretary & General of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report Counsel, the Director of Strategic programmes, the Chief Technology on pages 7 to 47 and the other sections of the Directors report on Officer, the Marketing Director and the Director of Finance form the pages 49 to 92.
The Code is published by the FRC and is available on its website The Board has delegated authority for certain other matters including www.
routine approvals to a General purposes Committee, which meets as required and at which a non-executive Director must be present.
leadership The role of the Board Board meetings The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders In 2015, the Board met formally on eight occasions.
An indication of the for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has matters dealt with at these meetings is set out below.
met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set the Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at its The June 2015 meeting included a dedicated session on Group strategy, dedicated strategy meeting in June and are subject to an ongoing which pete Raby attended prior to the commencement of his in-depth review following the appointment of pete Raby as Chief employment with the Company, with a specific focus on strategy and Executive Officer, and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent the long-term development of the Group.
During this extended and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
meeting, the Board assessed the Groups current portfolio of businesses, The Board sets the Companys values and standards, which are the performance of each of the technology families and the technology contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics policy, both of and innovation pipeline.
It also considered the key drivers of future which are referred to on pages 22 to 24 of the Strategic Report.
organic growth, assessed the competitor landscape and held detailed reviews of certain businesses.
This has been followed by a further in-depth review of strategy which commenced on pete Rabys appointment in August.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 53 Attendance at meetings The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance policy is in place.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Andrew Shilston 8 8 4 4 3 3 pete Raby 3 3 1 1 Kevin Dangerfield 8 8 Andrew Hosty 8 7 Douglas Caster 8 8 5 5 4 4 3 3 # Victoire fide Margerie 8 8 5 3 4 4 3 3 Andrew Reynolds Smith 8 8 5 5 4 4 3 3 Rob Rowley 8 8 5 5 4 3 3 2 Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2015.
Andrew Hosty was unable to attend the Board meeting in September 2015 due to illness.
# Victoire fide Margerie was unable to attend the June and September Audit Committee meetings due to prior commitments.
Rob Rowley was unable to attend the February Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings due to a prior commitment.
Summary of the Boards work during the year: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly Commenced a review of business and future technology strategy established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Approval of the appointment of pete Raby as Chief Executive Officer Deciding that the role of Chief Operating Officer was no longer The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the required and the termination arrangements for Andrew Hosty Board, including: setting the Boards agenda and ensuring sufficient time Receipt of in-depth business briefings from each of the Regional is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic issues: presidents promoting a culture of open debate and constructive challenge: Review and approval of the Groups half-year results, trading facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive Directors: statements and preliminary announcement of the final results and ensuring constructive relationships between executive and non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible Approval of the 2016 budget for the management of the Group, including the delivery of the Groups Review of Group and Regional business plans with a three-year business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing horizon the Executive Committee and ensuring the implementation of the Approval of major capital expenditure and review of major capital Groups policies.
investment projects Review of the Groups principal risks Following Mark Robertshaws departure as Chief Executive Officer Review of pensions liability position on 31 December 2014, Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer, additionally served as interim Chief Executive Officer from 1 January Review of environmental and health and safety performance 2015 until the recruitment of a replacement.
pete Raby joined as Chief and monitoring the roll-out of thinkSAFE, the behaviour-based Executive Officer on 1 August 2015 and Kevin Dangerfield resumed safety programme, and introduction of a new online incident his position of Chief Financial Officer only from that time.
reporting system Review of opportunities in the emerging technology of additive On 2 October 2015, it was announced that the Regional presidents manufacturing would report with immediate effect directly to the Chief Executive Review of intellectual property and know-how Officer and as a consequence the role of Chief Operating Officer Consideration of major shareholders views on the Groups was no longer required.
Andrew Hosty remained on the Board and performance and prospects continued to report directly to the Chief Executive Officer, providing Review of the senior management talent pipeline advice on a review of business and future technology strategy, until his departure on 8 January 2016. Review of the Groups IT strategy and performance, including progress on implementation of an enterprise resource planning system in the uSA Review of the Groups treasury arrangements, including treasury risk Review of outcomes of the Board performance evaluation and agreeing actions for further improvement.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 54 Governance CORpORATE GOVERNANCE continued Chairman Effectiveness On appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2012, Andrew Shilston met Board balance and independence the independence criteria set out in the Code.
The size, structure and composition of the Board were reviewed during the year, taking into account succession planning and the need Non-executive Directors to progressively refresh the membership of the Board.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, subject to annual re-election in accordance with the Code.
The pete Raby was appointed to the Board as an executive Director on independence, commitment and effectiveness of any non-executive 1 August 2015.
Further information on the process used to appoint the Director who has served for two three-year terms is subject to new Chief Executive Officer is included in the Nomination Committee rigorous review prior to reappointment for a further three-year term.
Douglas Caster became Senior Independent Director on 1 January Mindful of the need to continuously review and update the knowledge, 2015 on the departure of Andrew Given on 31 December 2014. skills and experience on the Board, as announced on 22 January 2016, Helen Bunch will be appointed to the Board as a non-executive Victoire fide Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February Director with effect from 24 February 2016.
As at 23 February 2016, the Board comprises Andrew Shilston, Chairman: pete Raby, Chief Executive Officer: Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer: and three independent non-executive NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE Directors, namely Douglas Caster, Andrew Reynolds Smith and % Rob Rowley.
Biographies of the Directors in post at the date of this As at 31 December 2015 Report, including details of their other main commitments, are set out on pages 50 and 51.
Throughout the year the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors independence Serving first three-year term 60% and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any Serving second three-year term 40% relationships with major suppliers and with charities receiving material Serving third three-year term 0% support from the Company.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE % As at 31 December 2014 Serving first three-year term 50% Serving second three-year term 33% Serving third three-year term 17% The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the year.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 55 Commitment BOARD BALANCE prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the % Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm that As at 31 December 2015 they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
For example, during the year, Rob Rowley indicated that he wished to accept a non-executive Director role at Camelot uK Lotteries Limited.
prior to accepting the position, he confirmed that he would continue to have sufficient time to dedicate to his role at Morgan Advanced Materials plc and the Board concluded that acceptance would not compromise his independence or impede the time available Executive Directors 38% to carry out his duties for the Company.
Independent non-executive Directors 50% There was no change to the Chairmans other significant commitments Chairman 12% during the year.
Information and support The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring BOARD BALANCE the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information to % enable it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally made available As at 31 December 2014 electronically five working days before each meeting.
Non-executive Directors also receive updates and information between formal Board meetings.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Executive Directors 33% Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek Independent non-executive Directors 56% independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties as Directors.
Chairman 11% Induction and professional development New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
A new Directors experience and background is taken into account in developing a tailored programme.
Before and after his appointment to the Board on 1 August 2015, pete Raby received comprehensive briefings to supplement the information on the Groups business provided during recruitment.
The briefing included further information on the business and its products and markets, brokers reports on the Group, the Companys corporate governance structure and processes and key Group policies.
The intensive induction programme included meetings with investors and analysts, briefings from other executives and functional heads on governance, responsible business, key risks, human resources and environment, health and safety, together with numerous visits to operational sites globally and meetings with Regional and operational management and personnel.
The Chairman considers the individual training and development needs of each Director.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of external courses under review and facilitates the ongoing training and development of all Directors as necessary.
During the year Directors received a dedicated briefing on thinkSAFE and two non-executive Directors attended separate Responsible Business programme training sessions.
Non-executive Directors have access to management and employees at all levels and are encouraged to visit operational sites.
In addition to visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
In 2015 Board visits were made to two overseas sites, in Luxembourg and Augusta, uSA, and to the Southampton site in the uK.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 56 Governance CORpORATE GOVERNANCE continued Performance evaluation The main aspects of the Boards work which the Board believes offer As anticipated in the 2014 Annual Report, the Board conducted an scope for further development relate to driving the Groups strategic externally facilitated Board performance evaluation during 2015. prior review and ensuring that the Board works effectively in a time of to this, the most recent externally facilitated evaluation was in 2011: significant change, and include: given the significant Board changes during 2014, the Board had decided Strategy challenging, supporting and monitoring the development to defer the external evaluation to 2015 when Board dynamics had and execution of the ongoing strategic review, with the need to settled and the new members of the Board would have had more increase the frequency of discussions on strategy and to effectively time in post and more relevant knowledge and experience with the monitor execution against it.
Company on which to base their contributions to allow a more Business leadership an increasing focus on talent management meaningful evaluation.
as a fundamental part of executing the Groups strategic priorities.
Board dynamics a focus on ensuring that the Board operates The aim of the external evaluation of the Boards performance and effectively, with the right mix of skills, against a background of that of its Committees and individual Directors was to identify ways continuing Board evolution and a period of significant change in to improve effectiveness.
The 2015 process was led by the Chairman and carried out by Alongside the Board and Committee evaluation, each Director Jack Telfer of Auxesis Consulting.
Jack Telfer is not involved in any completed an individual questionnaire which invited them to reflect other business relationship with the Company and is independent.
on their own performance and contribution to the Board.
The responses were reviewed by the Chairman and Jack Telfer, with The process for the evaluation of the Board as a whole and its any development needs being discussed with individual Directors.
Committees was as follows: Completion by all Board members, with the exception of Actions were taken during the year to implement the recommendations pete Raby as he had only recently joined the Board, of tailored made following the 2014 Board performance review and, in the case questionnaires which took into account the output from the 2014 of the articulation of strategy and focus on business leadership, the work performance evaluation process, the current dynamic of the Board, is ongoing.
the work of the Board during 2015 and its areas of focus.
Report produced summarising the results of the questionnaires.
Jack Telfer met with each of the Board members, with the exception of Andrew Hosty who stepped down from the Board on 8 January 2016.
Jack Telfer presented the findings to the Chairman initially and then to the full Board which had a full discussion on the results and subsequently agreed an action plan.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 57 RECOMMENDATION FROM THE 2014 BOARD pERFORMANCE REVIEW AND ACTION IMpLEMENTED DuRING 2015 recommendations from 2014 action taken progress made during 2015 Strategy The need to better articulate the Groups long-term In 2015, the Board discussed strategy on four separate occasions strategy and sustainable growth drivers externally, whilst using including at the annual strategy session in June.
On his appointment, shareholder comments and external views to challenge Board views.
pete Raby, supported by executive management, commenced a strategic review.
In reviewing the strategy, the Board has considered the views of investors and other relevant third parties.
The articulation of strategy forms part of the ongoing review of business and future technology strategy.
Business leadership There should be a continuing and The Board considered a summary report on talent at its July meeting increasing focus from the Board on business leader succession and conducted an in-depth review of executive talent and succession talent management as well as on ensuring the continued planning at its meeting in November 2015.
The Board reviewed development of leaders with the necessary skills to execute progress that had been made against targeted improvement in the the Groups long-term strategy.
A greater Board exposure areas of senior succession strength in both leadership and functional to key Regional executives was required to facilitate this.
capabilities, talent management and recruitment.
The Board will continue to review the talent strategy in line with the broader strategic review.
As part of their respective annual presentations to the Board, each of the Regional presidents gives an account of the talent in their respective organisations.
The overseas Board site visits represent an opportunity for the Directors to meet and engage with local executive management.
The Board received updates on the Groups new global Advanced Leadership programme, which complements the existing Senior Leadership programme and Graduate programme.
Management reporting Improvements are required to Executive management has made changes to the formatting of ensure the Board receives the right balance of information from certain papers.
The format of Group financial information has management, delivered in a clear and concise way.
been improved and additional narrative incorporated to highlight key points.
As a result of the review of internal control and risk management procedures, a number of reports prepared by management for the Audit Committee have been revised, in particular in relation to the reporting of risk and reporting on key judgments made by management when preparing the final and half-year results.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 58 Governance CORpORATE GOVERNANCE continued The non-executive Directors, led by Douglas Caster, the Senior Internal control Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to evaluate The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into account the sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment views of the executive Directors.
and the Groups assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
The Groups system of internal control has been in place for the year Conflicts of interest under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness conflicts of interest.
Accordingly the Directors are required to: of the internal control system annually and did so during the year.
The system of internal control accords with the FRCs guidance on the Disclose proposed outside interests before they are accepted in internal control requirements of the Code formerly known as the order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict.
This review covered all material controls, including Disclose without delay any situation which gives rise to an actual financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management or potential conflict.
The Audit Committee and Board receive regular risk management reports covering the full range of risks faced by the Group The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any and together they ensure there are adequate systems in place and that conflicts disclosed and authorisations annually.
Should an actual or they are effective.
potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether to authorise the situation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance in the arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman following areas: that the assets of the Group are safeguarded: that would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision.
manner: and that such controls would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities.
The system is designed Andrew Reynolds Smith, non-executive Director, was appointed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to address key business and CEO of Smiths Group plc in September 2015.
As Morgans Seals financial risks.
The internal control framework complements the and Bearings business is a supplier to John Crane, a division of Smiths Groups management structure.
Group, there is a conflict of interest.
The Board authorised the situational conflict, subject to the Company Secretary ensuring The main features of the Groups systems for internal control and for Andrew Reynolds Smith does not receive information relating to assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are the Seals and Bearings business and that he is excluded from any summarised as follows: discussion or decision relating to Seals and Bearings.
Control environment The Groups management processes include delegated authorities accountability and the segregation of duties with documented policies and Financial reporting manuals.
These cover financial procedures, environmental, health In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that the and safety practice and other areas.
In addition, there is a schedule Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced of matters reserved for the Board.
The Groups Core Values and understandable and provides the information necessary for Statement, Ethics policy and other supporting policies and shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, procedures set out the Groups commitment to the highest business model and strategy as required by the Code.
standards of corporate and individual behaviour and provide guidance for employees.
The Groups Responsible Business A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect programme includes relevant training and reporting and is part of of the Annual Report and the Financial statements is set out on pages the control framework.
The Ethics Hotline is available to employees 91 and 92 and the going concern statement is set out in the Strategic in this regard.
The Regional presidents and other senior operational Report on page 47. and functional management make an annual statement of compliance to the Board confirming that, for each of the businesses Business model and strategy for which they are responsible, the financial statements are fairly Details of the Groups business model, how it is working to generate presented in all material respects, appropriate systems of internal and sustain long-term value and details of the Boards strategy for controls have been developed and maintained and the businesses ensuring the Group meets its objectives are set out in the Strategic comply with Group policies and procedures.
In addition, the Audit Report on pages 7 to 47.
Committee receives an annual presentation on internal controls from each of the Regional Finance Directors.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 59 Financial reporting relations with shareholders Risk management systems and internal controls are in place in During 2015, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors attended relation to the Groups financial reporting processes and the results presentations and other investor events.
This provided the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These include policies opportunity to meet institutional shareholders and other attendees and procedures which require the maintenance of records which and to develop an understanding of their views.
accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as Following the announcement of the Groups results and after other necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board and the review and reconciliation of reported data.
As noted is provided with brokers reports and feedback from any shareholder above, representatives of the business are required to certify that meetings on a regular basis.
their reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the business and its results for the period.
The Audit The Remuneration Committee consulted shareholders in January Committee is responsible for monitoring these risk management 2016 on changes to the Directors remuneration policy due to be systems and internal controls.
introduced during 2016. performance monitoring To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive of the Companys website includes details of Regulatory News Committee.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other considered, including cash flows and comparisons against budget relevant Company and shareholder information.
Regional management teams also meet regularly to review performance.
In addition, regular site visits are made by Constructive use of the AGM members of the Executive Committee.
The AGM is normally attended by all members of the Board and by Risk management a representative of the external auditor.
At the AGM held in May 2015, The Board has undertaken a robust annual assessment of the the Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer made a Groups principal risks.
The identification, assessment and reporting short business presentation.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions of risks is an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with during the meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors operating management and steps are taken to mitigate and manage and other members of senior management before and after the formal all material risks including those relating to the Groups business meeting.
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are released model, solvency and liquidity.
The Board, either directly or through to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Groups website the Audit Committee, receives updates on risks from both Regional as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Noting the vote on the and Group perspectives.
Both the Group Executive Committee Annual Report on Remuneration was 57.36% in favour at the 2015 and Regional Executive Committees additionally cover risk issues AGM, the Remuneration Committee contacted major shareholders at their meetings.
The Groups risk management system, as set to identify their concerns, and the Board then considered how best out in the Risk management section on pages 18 to 21, supports to address them.
the going concern statement on page 47 and the viability statement on page 21.
Information on share capital and other matters Risk factors The information about share capital required to be included in The Groups businesses are affected by a number of factors, this statement can be found on pages 90 and 91 in the Other many of which are influenced by macro-economic trends and are disclosures section.
therefore outside the Companys immediate control, although, as described above and in the Strategic Report, the identification and management of such risks is carried out systematically.
These are further discussed in the Risk management section on pages 18 to 21.
Internal audit The Groups internal audit function reviews internal control and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports accordingly.
Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed with management and the Audit Committee monitors progress against outstanding actions.
The Internal Auditor has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
