Corporate Governance Report Governance framework Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Board Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board currently comprises me, as Chairman, five Leadership Independent Non-Executive Directors, Rob Rowley, Andrew This section looks at our Board members, their roles and Fisher, Genevieve Shore, Sally James and Robin Freestone, and their oversight.
two Executive Directors, Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer and Matthew Price Chief Financial Officer.
As Chairman, I am The role of the Board responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness.
We are responsible for the long-term success of Peter Plumb leads the business as Chief Executive Officer.
com Group PLC, with the overall aim of The division of the roles and responsibilities of Chairman and delivering shareholder value over the long term.
Principally, we Chief Executive Officer is in writing, provides clarity on the achieve this through: distinct responsibilities of each role and has been approved setting and monitoring strategy and ensuring the necessary by the Board.
Responsibilities of Board members are set resources are in place: out below: providing entrepreneurial leadership within an effective risk management framework: and Chairman reviewing management performance.
I am responsible for: leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all In setting and monitoring strategy, we have regard to the aspects of its role: impact that those decisions will have on the Groups obligations promoting the highest standards of corporate governance: to various stakeholders, such as shareholders, employees, our facilitating effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors regulators and the wider community.
and encouraging active engagement by all Directors, with the appropriate level of challenge by all Directors: While the Board is not managing the day-to-day operations ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and clear of the Group, key decisions and matters are reserved for information and is consulted on all matters important to it: approval of the Board and are set out in our terms of reference.
and These include the setting of, and changes to, Group strategy, ensuring the Company maintains effective communication approval of major acquisitions or disposals, determination of with shareholders and to communicate their views to interim dividends and recommendation of final dividends, the Board.
approval of budget and financial results, and carrying out an annual review of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: We review the matters reserved to the Board annually and the leading the performance and management of the Group: current matters reserved are available on our website at proposing strategies, business plans and policies to http: corporate.
the Board: ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions: maintaining an effective framework of internal controls and risk management: and leading, motivating and monitoring performance of the Companys executive management and focusing on succession planning for the executive management.
40 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General The Non-Executive Directors Each Non-Executive Director is responsible for: In 2015, we: bringing experience and independent judgement to the Board: and constructively challenging and helping develop proposals Strategy on strategy.
u held a two-day off-site strategy meeting to: w test and review the corporate strategy: The Senior Independent Director w review the markets in which we operate: The Senior Independent Director is an Independent w review the regulatory environment in which we Non-Executive Director who is responsible for: operate, with a focus on price comparison meeting with the Companys shareholders and websites: and representative bodies when requested and, if necessary, discussing matters with them where it would be w review customer feedback and experience to test inappropriate for those discussions to take place with progress on customer loyalty.
either the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer: and u scrutinised progress on the investment acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an programme to ensure we remain on track to be intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
best site: u reviewed a number of potential acquisitions: Rob Rowley is our Senior Independent Director.
He took over from Michael Wemms on 30 April 2015 when Michael Wemms u introduced a formal procedure for conducting stepped down from the Board.
post-implementation reviews under our investment process and conducted several The Company Secretary reviews during the year including the The Company Secretary is responsible for: investments in life, pet and travel insurance: managing the provision of timely, accurate and considered u approved the annual budget: information to the Board: recommending corporate governance policies and practices u held deep-dives at each of our Board meetings to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: into various aspects of the business including implementing and communicating corporate governance new business opportunities, internal control and risk management, and innovation in mobile policies across the Group: and and apps: and advising the Board and its Committees on corporate governance and compliance within the Group and u adopted new KPIs aligned to our key appropriate procedures for the management of their strategic priorities.
Governance The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a u adopted an annual programme of items for the matter for the whole Board.
All Directors are able to consult Board and each of the Committees to consider: with the Company Secretary, who is also secretary to all of the Board Committees.
There is also a formal documented u reviewed the outcome of the Board evaluation procedure by which any Director may take independent process, which this year was conducted professional advice relating to the performance of any aspects internally: of their duties at the Companys expense, which can be u agreed a programme of work to improve our facilitated by the Company Secretary.
back office systems: and Board meetings u considered and discussed the principal risks and I set the Board agendas following consultation with the Chief uncertainties which could impact the Group.
Executive Officer and with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
This year we adopted an annual programme of items Leadership and employees for discussion and this is kept under review by the Board to u held a deep-dive into the Groups people and ensure that all key issues are considered at the appropriate time culture, diversity and talent management and the Board is able to respond to any emerging matters that and engagement.
In 2015 we held nine Board meetings.
At each meeting we now hold a deep-dive into Performance specific aspects of the business.
The principal areas of focus for the Board in 2015 are listed in the section on the right.
u reviewed the strategic and operational performance of each of the businesses: and u considered Group financial performance against budget and forecast.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board splits its meetings between its Ewloe and London Relationship Agreement offices.
Board members have the opportunity to meet and The Company and Simon Nixon, our first CEO and formerly our interact with employees at various times during the year.
This single largest shareholder, entered into a relationship year we held a product showcase in which the Board and senior agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship leadership team were invited to sit with employees leading between them Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose innovative projects in order to gain a deeper understanding of of the Relationship Agreement was to ensure that the Company those projects.
Board members also took the opportunity to was capable of carrying out its business independently of listen to employee calls with customers in order to better Simon Nixon, and that transactions and relationships with understand the issues being raised by our customers and how Simon Nixon were at arms length and on normal commercial employees deal with those issues.
The Relationship Agreement terminated in May 2015 time to time with the Non-Executive Directors without the upon the sale of shares by Simon Nixon which resulted in him Executive Directors present.
holding less than 15% of the ordinary shares in the Company.
Effectiveness The composition of our Board is kept under review by the Scheduled meetings Nomination Committee to ensure that it retains the necessary in 2015 skills, knowledge and experience to meet the needs of the Board members Eligible to attend Attended business.
Details of the skills and experience of individual Directors are set out on pages 38 to 39.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown 9 9 Peter Plumb 9 9 Following the appointment of Andrew Fisher and Genevieve Rob Rowley 9 9 Shore in August 2014 and September 2014 respectively, Michael Sally James 9 9 Wemms and Robin Klein retired from the Board on conclusion Robin Klein 3 2 of the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2015.
Robin Genevieve Shore 9 8 Freestone was appointed as an additional Independent Andrew Fisher 9 9 Non-Executive Director in August 2015 and will assume the Michael Wemms 3 3 chairmanship of the Audit Committee when Rob Rowley steps Robin Freestone 3 3 down as chairman of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of Simon Nixon 9 6 the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
After seven years with the Matthew Price 9 9 Group, Graham Donoghue, Chief Product Officer, stepped down Graham Donoghue 7 7 from the Board in October 2015, leaving the Group in December 2015 after a period of handover to his successor.
On 31 December 2015 Simon Nixon, our founder and first CEO, Robin Klein and Michael Wemms retired from the Board on 30 April 2015. stepped down from the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Robin Freestone was appointed a Director on 1 August 2015.
Graham Donoghue resigned on 8 October 2015.
Simon Nixon resigned The Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the on 31 December 2015.
Board in 2015 and recommended that the Board currently had the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience to meet Ad hoc conference calls and Committee meetings were also the needs of the business but is mindful of the need for convened to deal with specific matters which required attention refreshing of the Board.
Induction of a new Director Board Committees On appointment, each Director receives a tailored induction to We delegate certain Board responsibilities to our Board suit the individuals background and experience.
Robin Committees which play an important governance role through Freestones induction included: the work they carry out.
Briefing papers are prepared and an induction pack including details of Board meetings and circulated to the Committee members in advance of each procedures, recent analyst and broker reports, recent Board meeting.
The Committee chairmen report formally to the Board and Committee minutes, matters reserved to the Board, a on Committee activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
briefing on Directors duties and responsibilities in addition to other key policies and procedures in support of the The Committees may obtain external professional advice at the Companys business practice: Companys expense if deemed necessary.
individual meetings with the Executive Directors, senior management and the Company Secretary: Detailed reports on the activities of the Audit Committee, Risk business-related presentations from senior management: Committee and Nomination Committee are set out in this and Report on pages 47 to 53, 56 to 58 and 54 to 55 respectively.
attending the two-day off-site strategy meeting which helped Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee together him gain an understanding of the Groups strategy, its with the Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee management team and its services.
chairman, the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 71.
42 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Director respectively with the results being analysed and Training and information presented for discussion at a Board meeting.
The Board then Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the agreed the key actions.
The Board also reviewed its progress markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and against actions identified in the external 2014 Board evaluation: regulatory environment through presentations and briefings to the Board from Executive Directors and senior management.
2014 evaluation actions update As part of the annual individual performance evaluation I The following actions were identified following the external discuss training and development requirements with each evaluation conducted in 2014: Director.
The Company Secretary maintains a record of Annual agendas we introduced and reviewed an annual individual Directors training as well as reviewing the suitability rolling agenda for the Board and each of the Committees, of external courses so that any needs identified through the with focus on deep-dives to cover strategic priorities and formal evaluation or during the year can be addressed.
Directors received briefings from the Company Secretary on Succession planning the Board, in conjunction with the governance and compliance areas including the new reporting Chief People Officer, has held a deep-dive into people and requirements under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the culture, diversity and talent management.
In order to FRCs Practice Aid on Audit Quality.
increase senior leaders exposure to the Board, members of the senior leadership team often present deep-dives To ensure that Directors are able to fully acquaint themselves relating to their part of the business.
In addition, the with current trading and matters requiring discussions and succession of each member of executive management decisions, comprehensive Board papers and Committee papers including the Executive Directors is now discussed at are circulated electronically approximately one week prior to Nomination Committee meetings throughout the year.
Strategy the Board introduced a formal procedure for conducting post-implementation investment appraisal reviews Directors, may, in the furtherance of their duties, take and conducted several reviews during the year including the independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
investments in life, pet and travel insurance.
This coincided with the investment programme commenced in 2014.
Performance the Board revised the key Group KPIs and Independence of Non-Executive Directors introduced new ones including non-financial metrics to The Board considers that I was independent on appointment as better reflect our strategic focus with more prominence and Chairman and considers Rob Rowley, Andrew Fisher, Genevieve explanatory narrative being given in reports to the Board.
A Shore, Sally James and Robin Freestone to be independent, being summary of the key Group KPIs is set out on pages 11 to 13. independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
2015 evaluation actions The Directors many positive responses indicated their widely held view that ongoing improvements have been made since Conflicts of interest the external evaluation in 2014.
In particular, members As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles considered there was open and transparent debate with of association enable Directors to authorise potential conflicts of constructive challenge and even contribution from all members interest.
The Company has a formal procedure for notification of the Board.
The Board receives comprehensive reports to and authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new enable it to monitor performance, consider risks and controls Director or prior to a new conflict arising.
This procedure enables and take key decisions.
Some of the development areas that will non-conflicted Directors to impose limits or conditions when be actioned in 2016 are a continuing focus on: giving or reviewing authorisation and requires the Board to Talent strategy - ensuring there is an effective talent strategy review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad for managing the pipeline of top talent to run the business.
The Board has complied with this Strategy - ensuring that we continue to monitor the procedure during the year.
competitive environment, consider provider needs and review new opportunities for growth.
Performance evaluation Customers - ensuring that we continue to focus on how we Board evaluation can help to meet customer needs.
We undertake a performance evaluation of the Board each year.
An external evaluation is carried out every three years.
Director evaluation Board evaluation process I appraise each of the Directors individually in the form of interviews, taking account of feedback received as part of the Board evaluation process.
I can confirm that each Director Year 1 External evaluation continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and devotes sufficient time to the role.
My evaluation was Year 2 Internal review undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, taking into account the views of the other Directors.
Biographies of the Year 3 Internal review Board are set out on pages 38 and 39 which includes my significant commitments.
The Board is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with my ability to carry out my Following the external evaluation conducted in 2014 by SCT duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
Consultants Ltd, we undertook an internal evaluation in 2015.
This involved the completion of questionnaires by individual Directors and interviews by me and the Senior Independent Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43 Corporate Governance Report continued appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure and Committee evaluation other capitalised costs: In addition to the Audit Committee evaluating its own monthly finance team meetings which include reviews of performance, we conducted formal evaluations of each of the internal financial reporting issues and financial control other Committees for the first time in 2015.
This involved monitoring: and completion of questionnaires by members of each Committee, ongoing training and development of financial reporting senior management who interact with each Committee, and, employees.
where relevant, professional advisers to each Committee, followed by discussion at a Committee meeting.
Summaries of these Other controls in place to manage our business in accordance evaluations can be found in the relevant Committee report.
with our Risk Appetite Framework include: an annual two-day strategy meeting to discuss and approve Accountability the Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives and the Financial and business reporting risks to achieving them: The Boards aim is to present an Annual Report to shareholders, a schedule of matters reserved for approval by the Board which, taken as a whole, is a fair, balanced and understandable to ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, assessment of the Groups position and performance, business financial, organisational, compliance and capital model and strategy.
The Board has ensured that processes are investment issues: in place to achieve this and more information on the processes an organisational governance structure with clearly can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 47 to 53. defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: A statement of Directors responsibilities and the auditors formal risk and control policies and supporting responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report are set out on procedures manuals: pages 75 and 79 respectively.
The Directors opinion that the regular reviews of the Principal Risks facing the Group to Companys business is a going concern is set out on page 26. ensure they are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed: Risk management and internal control a process for regular assessment of key controls across The Board has overall responsibility for setting the risk appetite the Group: of the Group, maintaining the Groups risk management and a Risk and Compliance function responsible for overseeing internal control system and reviewing the systems the implementation of the risk management framework: effectiveness.
We have an ongoing process for identifying, an Internal Audit function providing assurance over key risks, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group processes and controls: and which has been in place for the year under review and up to the a whistleblowing hotline which employees can use to report date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Risk Committee and any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
the Audit Committee assist us in discharging these duties.
Our internal control effectiveness is assessed through the We regularly review and update our internal control and risk performance of regular checks, which in 2015 included the management processes.
In light of the changes to the UK following areas: Corporate Governance Code in 2014 and the related FRC review and testing of the Groups financial reporting guidance on risk management and internal control, we have processes: reviewed our processes.
A summary of actions we have taken in completion of the Groups internal audit plan: 2015 is set out in the Risk Committee Report on pages 56 to 58. performing compliance monitoring activities including financial promotion reviews and call listening: Risk management assessment of the identification and management of risks A description of the process for managing risk together with a connected to the Groups capital investment programme: description of the Principal Risks and strategies to mitigate assessment of the Groups processes for identifying and those risks, is provided on pages 27 to 31. mitigating potential conflicts of interest: assessment of the identification and management of Internal control technology risks across the Group, including data security: The main features of the Groups risk management and internal and controls in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of monitoring the completion of the Groups mandatory accounts are: Customer First training for all employees.
a comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting process, requiring Board approval, through which risks are Risk review & assessment identified and appraised: The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify a comprehensive financial reporting system, regularly and manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the enhanced, within which actual and forecast results are effects of the risk of failing to achieve the Groups objectives.
compared with approved budgets and the previous years They are not designed to eliminate such risk, but the Group figures on a monthly basis and reviewed by the Board: seeks to understand its Principal Risks and manage them Group policies relating to the maintenance of accounting appropriately.
records, transaction reporting and key financial control procedures: an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an 44 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General The Groups risk register is a key element in our risk Shareholder engagement management framework and is used in the assessment and Major shareholders reporting of risks being managed by the Group.
The senior The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with management team and external consultants attended major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
Senior workshops during 2015, during which the risk register was executives, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief enhanced.
The risk register is managed by the Risk and Financial Officer regularly meet with analysts and institutional Compliance function and is reviewed on a regular basis by the shareholders to keep them informed of significant Risk Committee.
developments and to develop an understanding of their views which are discussed with the Board.
In addition, all Directors Each risk is owned by a member of executive management who receive formal reports and briefings during the year about the is responsible for the ongoing assessment of risk and the Companys investor relations programme and receive detailed delivery of mitigating actions.
Robust risk and control feedback obtained by the Companys brokers after meetings, assessments are carried out at least quarterly across all areas direct contact and other means, through which they are able to of the business, in order to understand the strength and develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
performance of the controls in place, and potential gaps and External analysts reports on the Group are also circulated to weaknesses.
Internal Audit and Risk and Compliance monitoring Directors.
findings are also taken into account when assessing risks.
Andrew Fisher, in his capacity as Remuneration Committee The Risk and Compliance function provides challenge to chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on executives in their assessment and management of risks with significant matters relating to executive remuneration.
particular focus on the actions being taken to reduce risk.
The senior management team meets on a monthly basis to ensure Formal presentations are given to analysts and shareholders risk management is integrated within strategic and business covering the full-year and half-year results and the Company planning processes.
Reporting to the Risk Committee enables seeks to maintain a dialogue with various bodies which monitor the Directors to have clear visibility of the most relevant risks: the Companys governance policies and procedures.
The identify areas of concern and or priority: have access to Company Secretary generally deals with questions from detailed information to enable root cause analysis and individual shareholders.
underlying trends: and identify, escalate, and potentially mitigate the impact of new risks in a timely manner.
Twice a Communications with shareholders year the Board reviews the Groups key risks and the Group Risk The results and results presentations, together with all Appetite Statement and Framework.
information reported to the market via the regulatory information service, press releases and other shareholder Process for review of effectiveness information, are published on the investor relations section of The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the the Groups website at http: corporate.
com effectiveness of the risk management and internal control to be viewed and accessed by all shareholders.
The steps it takes in relation to the review are set out on pages 28 and 52.
The Audit Committee makes a Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to recommendation to the Board on effectiveness which the Board shareholders if they have concerns for which contact through considers, together with reports from the Risk Committee, in the normal channels of me, the Chief Executive Officer or the forming its own view on the effectiveness of the risk Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such management and internal control systems.
During 2015, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Annual General Meeting Groups risk management and internal control systems.
We All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at confirm that the processes outlined above and on pages 27 to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The chairs of the 29 and 52, other than those enhancements introduced during Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees will be the year, have been in place for the year under review up to the available to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders date of approval of this Annual Report and that these processes, may also contact me, the Chief Executive Officer or, if more together with the enhancements introduced during the year, appropriate, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to accord with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC raise any issue with one or all of the Non-Executive Directors of Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related the Company.
Financial and Business Reporting September 2014 version.
We also confirm that no significant failings or weaknesses were The Company prepares separate resolutions on each identified in relation to the review.
The Board has carried out a substantially separate issue to be voted upon at Annual General robust assessment of the Principal Risks facing the Group, Meetings.
The result of the vote on each resolution is published including those that would threaten its business model, future on the Groups website after the Annual General Meeting and performance, solvency or liquidity and these, together with how will be announced via the regulatory information service.
At the they are managed or mitigated, are set out on pages 30 to 31.
2015 AGM, shareholders representing 82.51% of the Companys issued share capital returned their proxy votes.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45 Corporate Governance Report continued Compliance statement This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Audit Committee Report on pages 47 to 53, the Risk Committee Report on pages 56 to 58, the Nomination Committee Report on pages 54 to 55 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 71 provides a description of how the main principles of the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied by the Company during 2015.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
The Directors consider that during the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and to the date of this Report, the Company complied with the Code except as follows: E. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following their dialogue with major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director believes he is aware of the views of major shareholders.
Unless requested by major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not attend meetings with them but is available for shareholders as required.
E. 2.3 While arrangements were made by the Chairman for all Directors to attend the AGM on 30 April 2015, Simon Nixon was unable to attend.
Simon stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2015.
The Chairman and all Board Committee chairmen attended the meeting and were available to answer questions.
46 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015
