Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction to be able to exercise proper oversight by either party and are subject to other early termination provisions without and effectively challenge the executive Dear Shareholder, directors.
The non-executive directors who compensation, for example in the event a director is not re-elected at the annual served during the financial year ended 28 The board is committed to meeting a high February 2015 were: general meeting.
standard of corporate governance and compliance with the principles in the UK The board, having carried out a Andrew Higginson Chairman : Corporate Governance Code issued by performance evaluation, believes the Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE: the UK Financial Reporting Council in performance of all directors and their 2012 the Code.
My role is to ensure commitment to the role of director continues Ivan Fallon: the board operates effectively, is well to be fully effective.
Further details of this managed, complies with the requirements John McGuire retired 1 April 2014 : evaluation can be found on page 22. of the Code and has the correct balance of Anna Ford retired 22 July 2014 : Appointments to the board are made diversity skills and experience to execute solely on merit based on the skills and the strategy set by the board.
Over recent Fiona Laird: experience offered by the candidate and years these characteristics have been Simon Patterson: required by the role.
This ensures that all enhanced by a number of non-executive appointees have the best mix of skills and appointments.
Strong governance and Ron McMillan: and time to devote themselves effectively to effective management is a key component Lesley Jones the business of the board and to discharge of the companys continued success.
appointed 1 October 2014. their duties to the best of their ability.
Statement of Compliance with the Code During the year there was one Details of directors contract terms are The group complied with the provisions appointment to the board.
Lesley Jones shown in the Remuneration Report on of the Code and the UK Financial was appointed as a non-executive director page 40.
In accordance with the Code, Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and on 1 October 2014.
John McGuire and the company has made the terms and Transparency Rules throughout the year.
Anna Ford retired from the Board in April conditions of appointment of the nonThe following paragraphs explain how and July respectively, I would like to executive directors available for inspection.
the main principles of the Code have thank them both personally for their huge Diversity been applied.
The Remuneration Report contribution to the company.
contains further details on pages 33 to 49.
The board recognises the importance of The board considers that, throughout Disclosures required by the Disclosure diversity, including gender, at all levels the year, at least half of the board, and Transparency Rules rule 7.2.
6 of the company as well as on the board.
excluding the chairman, comprised regarding share capital can be found in The company is committed to equal independent non-executive directors and the Directors Report.
opportunities and increasing diversity that the composition of the board had across our operations in terms of relevant Board composition the necessary balance of executive and skills, experience, ethnicity and gender.
non-executive directors to provide the The board comprises nine directors of The board now comprises six male requisite skills, experience, challenge whom seven are non-executive including directors and three female directors.
and judgement appropriate for the the chairman.
Of the seven non-executive The board will continue to consider how requirements of the business and full directors, Lord Alliance of Manchester diversity can be enhanced through the board effectiveness.
and Ivan Fallon are not considered by the board and the senior management teams board to be independent.
The Chairman All board members remain in place as at and across the group generally, whilst was considered independent at the time of the date of this report.
ensuring that it appoints only the most his appointment.
appropriate candidates to the board.
Pursuant to the Code, all directors are required to retire and submit themselves Full biographical details of all directors Gender Diversity for re-election annually.
We currently have 33% female diversity each of the directors will retire at the at board level and 40% on the Home There is a clear division of responsibilities forthcoming annual general meeting and Shopping board.
This is over the current between the Chairman, Andrew offer themselves for reappointment at Government target of 25% by 2015, Higginson, who is responsible for the that meeting.
established in the Davies review, and effective operation of the board and the With the exception of Ivan Fallon, significantly higher than the current FTSE Chief Executive, Angela Spindler, who is who remains on a three month rolling 250 who have achieved representation responsible for the groups operational arrangement, all non-executive directors at 18%.
We believe that gender performance.
serve on letters of appointments representation makes good business The board understands the need for stipulating 3 year terms.
All appointments sense, given that women make up over non-executive directors to be and remain are terminable, without compensation, half of the UK population and almost 60% on between three and six months notice independent of the management in order of our total workforce.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21 Corporate Governance Statement Strengthening our executive pipeline The board is responsible for all major Executive and the Finance Director, remains a permanent task for us and we policy decisions and for determining the management accounts, broker analyses, continue to open up new opportunities operational and strategic risks it is willing compliance and regulatory briefings and for women in the business, working with to take in achieving its objectives.
A comprehensive pack head-hunters and agencies that can board has, where necessary, delegated of papers is electronically circulated to provide true gender diversification in their operational matters to its committees and each director not less than seven days candidate bases.
sub-committees, and to its executive and prior to each board meeting.
Budgetary operational directors and senior officers.
performance and forecasts are reviewed To provide role models in the business The board is collectively responsible and revised at each meeting.
Outside and break the glass ceiling we are for providing effective leadership and of the meeting there is a regular flow members of Women on Boards and promoting the success of the group and of information between the directors have 2 representatives who serve in works to a formal list of matters reserved including the weekly dissemination of that organisation Caroline Massingham for the board a copy of which is available management information statistics.
People and Retail director and Linda on the companys website, www.
Our aim is to Non-executive directors meet with co. uk.
Matters reserved to the board allow development of board directors operational teams and the Home include, amongst other things, decisions and to allow directors to take up nonShopping Board and undertake site visits on business strategy, the approval of executive roles in other businesses where to ensure that they have the most up-tofinancial statements, the annual capital and opportunities arise.
date knowledge and understanding of the operating expenditure plans, investment, company and its activities and also so Gender Split treasury and dividend policies, governance that the broader population of the group issues, major capital projects, overseeing At the date of this report the gender split can derive benefit from the skills and the groups risk control procedures, board male female, senior management and experience of the non-executive directors.
membership and the composition of its entire workforce is as follows:- committees and the groups ethical, social All board members are permitted to and environmental policies.
Male Female obtain independent professional advice Heads %Split Heads %Split The board governs through clearly in respect of their own fiduciary duties mandated committees, accompanied by Senior and obligations and have full and direct robust monitoring and reporting systems.
access to the Company Secretary, who Management 54 65 29 35 Further detail is given below.
is a qualified solicitor and who attends All all board and committee meetings as Day-to-day management of the groups Employees 1,354 43 1,827 57 secretary.
The Company Secretary activities is delegated to the operational provides an on-going programme of Board operation and evaluation board, known as the Home Shopping briefings for directors covering legal and board, on which Angela Spindler, Dean An effective board of directors leads and regulatory changes and developments Moore until 30 April and Craig Lovelace controls the group.
The members of the relevant to the groups activities and from 11 May sit as chief executive officer board are named below.
The board met 8 directors areas of responsibility.
The and finance director respectively.
Other times during the year.
Directors attendance Company Secretary is also responsible members of the Home Shopping Board at board meetings was as follows: for the induction of new directors.
are Paul Kendrick Customer, Financial New directors are provided with a Attendance Services and International Director, comprehensive pack of information Andrew Haywood CIO and Change Andrew Higginson 8 including terms of reference, information Director, Ian Carr Logistics Director, regarding the business and guidance on Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 8 Caroline Massingham People and their roles and duties as directors and Angela Spindler 8 Retail Director, Ann Steer Marketing meetings site visits with key employee Director, Ralph Tucker Product Director, Ivan Fallon 7 contacts are arranged as appropriate.
Ed Watson Global Communications Dean Moore 8 Inductions to the business for new and Creative Director and Linda Quinn directors are designed to expose them John McGuire 1 Ladieswear and Design Director.
to all areas of the groups operations retired 1 April 2014 but with particular emphasis on each In January of each year the members of Anna Ford 4 the board meet with members of the Home directors area of expertise.
retired 22 July 2014 Shopping Board over a two day period to Fiona Laird 8 Board Effectiveness appraisal review the progress being made against, and the future development of, the groups Simon Patterson 8 In accordance with Main Principle B.
6 of long-term rolling strategic plan.
Ron McMillan 8 the Code the board appointed an external Board papers include detailed evaluator to carry out an independent Lesley Jones 2 appointed 1 October 2014 management reports from the Chief effectiveness review of the board and 22 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Statement its committees.
The review was carried arise.
The register of reported conflicts is After each committee meeting the reviewed by the board at least annually.
chairman of that committee makes a formal out by Consilium who has no other connection to the company.
The board has complied with these report to the board of directors detailing the procedures during the year.
business carried out by the committee and The appraisal included: setting out its recommendations.
One potential conflict of interest was Review of:- Board Agendas, Minutes reported in the year ended 28 February Audit Committee Report and Papers, strategy inputs, analysts 2015 in circumstances where the nonnotes Board & Committee Remits Introduction by Ron McMillan, Chairman executive concerned was neither directly Internal Board evaluations.
of the Committee or indirectly involved in any potential Interviews with all directors, the dealings between the group and the Dear Shareholder, Company Secretary and HR director.
The conflict was The Audit Committee exercises oversight authorised by the board with appropriate Observation of a Board meeting and the of the groups financial policies and safeguards being put in place.
It monitors the integrity of Board activities in 2014 15 the financial statements and reviews A report of findings.
and considers significant financial and Some of the key activities that the board A Discussion of the report and accounting estimates and judgements.
has covered over the past year are:- recommendation with the Board.
The committee satisfies itself that the Strengthening the board through the disclosures in the financial statements Guidance for Senior Independent appointment of a new independent director about these judgements and estimates are Directors leadership of the Boards who is an experienced financial services appropriate and obtains from the external process to evaluate the Chairman.
executive and the appointment of our new auditor an independent view of the key Overall, the review concluded that the CFO who has experience in dealing with disclosure issues and risks.
Board has achieved much in the last multi-site multi-platform businesses: Amongst other things, during the year the year: improving its own processes, the Reviewing the progress and costs of the committee considered:- structure and rigour of governance and Fit 4 the Future Project: supporting Angela in developing her team.
The regulatory environment in which In particular the review noted that the board Assessing the progress of the groups the group operates: are professional, self-disciplined and highly international and High Street strategies: committed and that the board operates in The groups approach to and and an open and productive climate.
Areas for methodology for provisioning for bad Reviewing and improving Board focus in 2015 included processes and doubtful receivables: communications with our investors and and communications, focus and agenda The groups approach to and appointing a director of investor relations planning and information and metrics.
methodology for provisioning for Committees of the Board Based on the findings of the external inventory: review, the Board has agreed a set of The board delegates authority to a The groups exposure to corporate tax objectives for 2015 16. number of committees to deal with specific and VAT risks: aspects of management and to maintain Beyond the annual evaluation, the The valuation of the groups defined supervision over the internal control performance of the executive directors is benefit pension scheme: policies and procedures of the group.
continuously monitored throughout the These committees meet regularly and have year by the Chairman and the senior nonThe presentation and appropriateness of formal written terms of reference which are executive director.
exceptional items: available for inspection on the companys The Chairman reviews and agrees Treasury and cash management: website.
The minutes of the meetings of with each director their training and these committees are circulated to all Group security: development needs.
committee members in advance of the next following committee meeting, at which they Business continuity planning: and Directors conflicts of interest are ratified.
The following committees of Fraud.
The Articles of Association of the the board have been established: company give the directors the power to A key responsibility of the committee an audit committee: consider and, if appropriate, authorise is to review the scope, nature and conflict situations where a directors a remuneration committee: effectiveness of internal and external declared interest may conflict or does audits.
The committee ensures that the conflict with the interests of the company.
a nominations and governance head of internal audit has appropriate committee: and Procedures are in place at every meeting independence and authority, that the scope for individual directors to report and record a corporate social responsibility of internal audits work is not restricted and any potential or actual conflicts which committee.
that the function has adequate resources.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23 Corporate Governance Statement The head of internal audit has a direct Ron McMillan 3 Bad and doubtful debts reporting line to me.
The committee will The methodology for provisioning for bad Simon Patterson 3 also continue to monitor and review the and doubtful debts is complex and requires key aspects of the groups external audit.
Fiona Laird 3 significant judgements and assumptions.
In relation to risk and control, the The committee reviewed the outputs of the Lesley Jones 0 committee ensured that the three lines detailed work undertaken by the external of defence model which clearly attributes auditor in this area and satisfied itself as to In addition to scheduled meetings, the responsibilities and accountability for chairman of the committee met with the the appropriateness of the provision.
Finance Director, the head of internal Exposure to corporate tax and VAT audit and the external auditor on a Further information on the committees The group has a number of open items number of occasions during the year.
responsibilities and the way in which they with the tax authorities and the calculation have been discharged is set out below.
Responsibilities of the groups potential liabilities or assets I will be available at the annual general in respect of these necessarily involves The committee is responsible for: meeting in July to answer any questions a degree of estimation and judgement.
you may have on this report and would Monitoring the integrity of the groups The Board sets and oversees the groups like to thank my colleagues on the audit financial statements and reviewing tax strategy which evaluates tax risk.
In committee for their help and support this significant financial judgements and undertaking this task the group uses its year.
estimates in advance of these being tax advisors and legal counsel.
During the considered by the board: year the groups tax advisers have kept Ron McMillan the committee appraised of existing and In conjunction with internal audit and Chairman of the Audit Committee emerging risks and the committee has the external auditor, reviewing internal considered the appropriateness of related Audit committee report financial controls and managements tax provisions and assets.
response to required corrective action: Committee Composition In addition to the matters referred to in the The committee comprises a minimum Monitoring and reviewing the role and letter from the chairman of the committee of three members, all of whom are effectiveness of the groups internal on page 23, the work of the committee non-executive directors.
Two members audit function, including activities and during the year included: constitute a quorum.
The committee resources: and Reviewing the draft interim and annual requires the inclusion of one financially Overseeing the role and effectiveness of reports and considering: qualified member with recent and relevant the groups external auditors, reviewing financial experience.
The committee 1 The accounting principles, policies and monitoring their objectivity and chairman fulfils that requirement.
All and practices adopted and the adequacy independence and agreeing the scope members are expected to have an of related disclosures in the reports: of this work, and related materiality and understanding of financial reporting, the fees for audit and non-audit services.
2 The significant accounting groups internal audit control environment, issues, estimates and judgements of relevant corporate legislation, the roles and Activities management in relation to financial functions of internal and external audit and reporting: the regulatory framework of the business.
The key matters considered by the committee during the year were: 3 Whether any significant adjustments The members of the committee during the were required arising from the audit: year were: Regulatory environment and Ron McMillan Chairman The regulatory environment in which 4 Compliance with statutory tax the group operates is both complex and Simon Patterson obligations and the groups tax policy.
changing with the transfer of regulatory Fiona Laird supervision from the OFT to the FCA.
Meeting with the internal and external Changes in laws and regulations may auditor, both with and in the absence of Lesley Jones appointed 1 October 2014 impact the groups business, sector and the executive directors.
The Chief Executive, the Finance market.
The committee reviewed updates Reviewing and approving the resources Director, the head of internal audit and the on the work carried out by the groups external auditor are invited to attend audit of, the scope of work undertaken by and compliance committee and satisfied itself the reports prepared by internal audit.
that action is being taken to address the The committee met 3 times during the year changes that are required to comply with Reviewing the reports prepared by the new regulations.
and attendance was as follows:- external auditor on key audit findings 24 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Statement and any significant deficiencies in the members have continued to receive, appropriately factored into the risk financial control environment.
consider and approve updated risk management process, the groups internal auditors facilitated two board level risk evaluations from the operational directors.
Reviewing and considering the groups Further details are given later in the Risk sessions in the year.
The Chief Executive systems of internal risk control, sources Management section of this report.
and Finance Director along with the of assurance and exposure to fraud and operational directors identified, ranked overseeing the development of a new The board considers that the processes and reviewed the key risks facing the risk model for aligning identified risks undertaken by the audit committee business and appraised the structure of with mitigating actions.
continue to be appropriately robust and internal controls and identified current and effective and in compliance with the Overseeing the management of the proposed activities to mitigate these risks.
guidance issued by the Financial Reporting groups whistleblowing procedures The committee was provided with the Council.
During the year the board has not which contain procedures for the outputs from this process and given the been advised by the audit committee of, committee to receive, in confidence, opportunity to conduct its own assessment nor identified itself, any failings, frauds or of risk across strategic, financial and complaints on all operational matters.
weaknesses in internal control which it has operational areas.
The results were Reviewing the performance of the determined to be material in the context of circulated by internal audit as a key driver external auditor, including their the financial statements.
in the annual internal audit plan.
relationship with the group, the groups Deloitte LLP has been the groups auditor An enterprise wide mapping of activities use of the auditor for non-audit services for 13 years and, as indicated in our last across business functions was also and the balance of audit and non-audit Annual Report we have reviewed their undertaken by internal audit during the fees paid to the auditors.
Non-audit appointment in light of changes to the year to assess the level of risk within each services are generally subject to tender Code.
Consequently, Deloitte LLP will not activity.
Output from this process has also processes and the allocations of work seek re-appointment as the Companys been reflected in the annual audit plan.
are done on the basis of competence, auditors at the 2015 AGM.
The committee cost effectiveness, regulatory Appropriate responsibilities and has commenced a competitive tender requirements, the potential for conflicts accountabilities have been set to ensure that process to appoint new external auditors to arise and knowledge of the groups there is ownership of the actions required to for 2015 onwards.
Deloitte LLP has, during the mitigate risk across the business.
AGM will ask shareholders to confirm year, provided non-audit services in the the appointment of the successful firm Risk committee form of corporate tax, and VAT advisory following the tender process.
It was The risk committee is a sub-committee of considered that Deloitte LLP was best The total fees paid to Deloitte LLP for the the audit committee on which the Chief placed to provide such advice in view year ended 28 February 2015 were 2.2m, Executive, Finance Director, the Company of its knowledge of the groups financial of which 1.9m was in respect of non-audit Secretary and head of internal audit sit, position.
The committee is satisfied that, services.
Further details are set out in note to focus on reviewing management s activities and to continually monitor and in relation to these services, Deloitte 6 to the financial statements.
Operational LLP has taken actions to ensure that Risk Management any potential conflicts of interest are management is asked to present to the The directors have overall responsibility risk committee on a cyclical basis on the properly managed.
for ensuring that the group maintains a progress of agreed actions against the Reporting to the board on how it has sound system of internal control.
There major risks identified by the process.
The discharged its responsibilities, and are inherent limitations in any system of output from the risk committee is shared Making recommendations to the board in internal control and no system can provide with the audit committee and the full board.
respect of its findings in respect of all of absolute assurance against material The com mittee believes that appropriate the above matters.
Equally no internal controls are in place throughout system can guarantee elimination of the the group, the most significant of which The committee has established a risk of failure to meet the objectives of have been specifically referred to in this continuous process for identifying, the business.
The group has a well-defined evaluating and managing the significant the board has established a continuous organisational structure, with clear lines risks the group faces.
This monitoring is process for identifying, evaluating and of responsibility and explicit authority principally based on reviewing reports managing the significant risks the group delegated to divisional boards and from senior management to consider faces in order to give it reasonable executive management.
The group also whether significant operational risks are assurances regarding its operations and has a comprehensive financial reporting being identified, evaluated, managed and compliance with laws and regulations.
system with good communication of plans, controlled and whether any significant weaknesses exist which need to be budgets and monthly results to relevant In order to ensure key business levels of management and the board.
During the year, committee developments and emerging risks are N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25 Corporate Governance Statement The group has complied, and continues facing the group that has been in place The principal risks which the group has to comply, with the provisions of the Code throughout the year and to the date of this identified, together with actions to mitigate on internal controls.
There is an on-going report.
The process has been reviewed by those risks are set out below: process in place for identifying, evaluating the committee and the board and accords and managing the significant risks with guidance appended to the Code.
Risk Mitigating activities Failure to recognise the need for change Board strategic planning away-days.
The business does not recognise the need for change, is Fit 4 the Future two year business transformation programme unsuccessful in delivering the best course of action or fails to which will facilitate the omni-channel retail vision.
Monitoring of performance against strategic objectives and targets.
For example the credit transformation programme and new product capabilities.
Competition Continuous monitoring and benchmarking of Failure to compete effectively through product and competitor activity.
Dedicated Customer Insight team undertakes customer perceptual gap surveys.
Fit 4 the Future two year business transformation programme which provides platforms to meet customer requirements.
Warehouse expansion project to develop and expand the customer delivery proposition.
Regulatory environment The Group employs specialists in relevant fields to provide Failure to ensure the Group complies with existing and emerging in-house and external expertise.
UK and overseas legislation and regulation.
Governance and change control strengthened through incorporation of additional committee oversight.
Pro-active engagement with appropriate regulatory bodies.
Membership of the British Retail Consortium.
Group recruits specialist in-house and external resources.
IT systems The replacement of core legacy IT systems is too slow, Regular review of IT strategy and it s implementation.
Fit 4 the Future two year business transformation programme expensive or ineffective.
which is focused on the replacement and standardisation of IT platforms.
Monitoring of performance against targets and post-investment implementation reviews.
Overseas ventures Employment of dedicated executive and management teams.
Overseas ventures under-perform against expectations and Recruitment of specialist external consultancy services.
expose the group to additional risk.
Introduction of credit offer in the USA.
Review of performance against targets.
People Organisation capability review undertaken.
Over-reliance on key personnel and inability to recruit and retain Group internal opportunities and reward systems.
Introduction of talent identification programme.
Benchmarking of competitors reward packages and terms and conditions.
Business interruption Business Continuity Planning programmes.
A significant event impacts the ability of the business to Crisis management plan, team and communication systems.
IT disaster recovery plans including penetration testing.
Fit 4 the Future two year business transformation programme.
26 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration committee search and selection process conducted All People by MWM.
MWM have no other connection A Remuneration Report in accordance Where people are concerned, so are we with the company.
with the requirements of the Large and We want everyone who works for us, Medium-sized Companies and Groups During the year the committee met on wherever they are, to be treated with Accounts and Reports Regulations two occasions with full attendance by all fairness, dignity and respect.
Because 2008 as amended, together with a letter members.
everything we achieve as a business, we from the chairman of the remuneration achieve through people.
committee, are included on pages Activities undertaken during the year 33 to 49.
Information concerning the included review of the companys One Planet succession planning and capital committees activities during the year is expenditure policy.
Protecting the earth begins with respecting it Nomination and governance committee In accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a the company has entered into a written Were determined to understand our effect Introduction by Simon Patterson, and binding relationship agreement with on the world, and find better smarter Chairman Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE.
and more sustainable ways of working.
Dear Shareholder, To learn and to teach, to recycle, reuse Simon Patterson and respect, wherever we are on our big In July 2014, the remit of the Nomination beautiful planet.
Chair of the Nominations Committee Committee was expanded and re-named.
The objectives of the committee are to Every Product Corporate social responsibility CSR ensure the board comprises individuals possessing the requisite skills, knowledge Our products should make people feel Introduction by Fiona Laird, Chairman of as good as they look and experience and to review and make the CSR Committee.
recommendations to the Board to ensure That means partnering suppliers who that the Companys arrangements are Dear Shareholder share our standards, working together to consistent with best practice corporate create ever more responsible, sustainable I am pleased to report that during the governance standards.
products that our customers can enjoy year the group has undertaken an Lesley Jones completed a full induction with confidence and with conscience.
extensive review of all aspects of the CSR programme, which involved spending time Corporate Social Responsibility Policies Its a big word and a huge task to change with the main functions and departments and Procedures.
Weve taken our first steps on this of the business.
She is a member of the our CSR Charter later this year with the important journey, but we have a long Nominations and Governance Committee overarching title of Taking Care of Our way to go.
Making a positive impact is our and the Audit Committee.
World - Our passion for fair fashion which obligation not an option.
We know that comprises three main pillars All People, The nomination and governance committee achieving all this will take collaboration One Planet, Every Product as explained is chaired by me, and the members are and co-operation with others.
Andrew Higginson, Lesley Jones, Ron because we are in a position to lead, we McMillan and Fiona Laird.
The formal terms We believe we should be a major force for are ready to stand up and be counted.
of reference for this committee require it to good as well as a major force in fashion.
make recommendations to the board for Everything that we will do going forward Its a huge responsibility, and a purpose appointments of directors including, when will link back to these three main pillars.
appropriate, the Chairman of the board and We have reviewed and updated our also directors of the operating board and Fiona Laird policies and procedures.
As part of this we other senior executive staff of the operating have adopted the following policies: Chairman of the CSR Committee company.
Where appropriate, the Chief Executive and Company Secretary are Human Rights Policy This covers our Corporate Social Responsibility invited to attend meetings of the committee.
support of the United Nations Declaration During the year the group has undertaken The committee evaluates board of Human Rights and International Labour an extensive review of all aspects of the candidates on merit, against objective Organisation Core Conventions.
We are CSR Corporate Social Responsibility criteria, taking into account the skills and developing our Human Rights Impact Policies and Procedures.
We will be experience required to perform the duties Assessments and will begin reporting on launching our CSR Charter later this year of the post with due regard to diversity these next year.
with the overarching title of Taking Care and gender.
Where appropriate, external of Our World Our passion for fair fashion Animal Welfare Policy - Covers all aspects search consultants are engaged.
of animal welfare including endangered which comprises three main pillars as MWM Consulting LLP MWM were listed below.
species, fur free, leather, wool, cashmere, appointed by the Committee to assist feather and down and animal testing.
in the discharge of its duties.
The We believe we should be a major force for As part of a gap analysis we will this appointment of Lesley Jones as a nongood as well as a major force in fashion.
executive director on 1 October 2014 Its a huge responsibility, and a purpose tear work on a Forestry Strategy and was as a result of an external candidate way beyond profit.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 Corporate Governance Statement We continue to be signatories to the standards in the Bangladeshi garment called Traid http: www.
uk who United Nations Global Compact and have industry specifically in the areas of will either sell the clothes in their network recently published our first Communication fire, electrical and structural safety.
We of 12 charity shops or recycle the fabric on Progress report.
During the year our were founding board members of the if the clothes are not saleable.
All profits Ethical Trading Manager was selected to Accord and committed significant time are then invested in projects in garment be a member of the Advisory Group on and resources during the first year of producing countries all around the world, Supply Chain Sustainability.
All our factories manufacturing including the UK.
We will also be able in Bangladesh have had independent to report on the amount we have saved We continue to play an active role as inspections with the reports and going to landfill and the impact this has members of the ETI Ethical Trading corrective action plans publically had on waste and water usage.
This year we have participated disclosed on the website.
in a number of programmes:- The groups policy for the payment We have successfully bid for funding to of suppliers is to ensure that terms of Leicester Programme Along with undertake a project as part of the TGVCI payment are negotiated with suppliers a number of other retailers we Trade in Global Value Chains Initiative when agreeing the terms of each commissioned an independent review jointly funded by DFID Department transaction and to ensure that all of Leicesters garment manufacturing.
It for International Development and suppliers are made aware of and accept was felt that some substantive research ourselves.
This project will focus on agreed payment terms.
The group was needed to help understand the wider gender sensitisation of workers and continually reviews payment procedures issues before we could decide on what managers in ten of our garment factories in and liaises with suppliers to eliminate action to take.
We wish to focus on attitude difficulties and to maintain good working number of issues surrounding excessive change with the factories by encouraging relationships.
Agreed payment terms are working hours, low wages and regular worker management dialogue, build local then abided by and payment is made unauthorised sub-contracting.
We are capacity to support this on the ground and in accordance with those terms.
Trade currently working on a programme of work empower factories to initiate and complete creditors of the group at 28 February 2015 to tackle all the issues raised together improvement projects as a result of the represented 30 days 2014, 36 days of with trade unions and civil society.
This will be through a train the purchases.
are committed to support our suppliers trainer approach in a safe environment.
in Leicester to raise the standards of the We have also undertaken a full review This project is planned to run to April 2016. industry as a whole.
of the group's charity support.
We Through our membership of BSR have engaged with customers and Tamil Nadu, Southern India Again Business for Social Responsibility, we employees to find the most relevant type together with other retailers and NGOs are part of a working group of six brands of charities they wish to support.
We we are tackling the wider Sumangali on responsible sourcing from Myanmar.
are in the process of shortlisting to find scheme.
This scheme is where young, This is a year long project to try and tackle the best strategic partners for a three usually women workers, are attracted some of the more systemic issues left in year commitment going forward.
We are to employment in mills and factories in Myanmar after years of sanctions.
We are ensuring these will be relevant for our the Tiripur region with the promise of focussing on freedom of association and core power brands JD Williams, Jacamo paid work, safe accommodation and a child labour remediation.
We will also work and Simply Be.
More information on the final lump sum payment.
However recent to develop intercultural communications choice of charities will be released later research has shown that some of these training to begin the process of dialogue in the year.
We are working with the schemes are the equivalent of bonded and understanding of what good industrial Charities Aid Foundation to find the best labour, with excessive working hours, relations can achieve.
We are currently way to maximise our impact in this area.
poor living conditions and lump sums working with UNICEF and the ILO to not being paid at the end of the scheme.
Environment progress the work of the group over the We are working with other retailers and next year.
textile suppliers to set up a regulation, Overview inspection and service model in the We are also focussing our work in the Our sustainability strategy and region that can be up scaled across area of Living Wage within the garment environmental performance has become all mills and factories.
We are working together with an integral element of our core business currently engaging 2,650 workers across 13 global brands and a global trade strategy.
As a responsible multi-channel six spinning mills and one factory.
union, IndustriALL, to find a co-ordinated retailer, we have formally committed approach across the industry in a very During the year we continued our support to reduction targets and continually complex and difficult area.
for the Bangladesh Accord Agreement.
strive to exceed expectations of our http: bangladeshaccord.
We are customers, staff and investors.
GroupWe are introducing a clothing recycling signatories to the Accord along with over scheme as a trial with our customers.
wide sustainability responsibility has been 180 global retailers who source from assigned to Ian Carr, director of logistics, We will be distributing 250,000 bags and Bangladesh.
The Accord was formed will utilise our current courier network to who sits on the operational board of J D in 2013 following the tragic Rana Plaza Williams & Company Limited and who collect any unwanted clothing.
This is building collapse in April 2013.
It is a aiming to encourage less clothing to go to reports to the Chief Executive Officer and, five year commitment to improve the through him, to the board of directors.
We are partnering with a charity 28 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Statement Since 2007, the group has been actively Emissions profile Under GHG reporting guidelines, working alongside its environmental scope 1 and 2 emissions are the key Our Green House Gas GHG emissions partners, Envantage Limited and mandatory areas to report, illustrating the inventory is calculated for the global environmental impact of the Group for Viridor Limited, to boost environmental Group under the operational control activities where we have direct controli.
e. performance and increase groupapproach, in accordance with the GHG operation of our sites and vehicles.
As a wide environmental awareness and Protocol and GHG emissions factors responsible retailer we have also taken accountability.
Ongoing investment published by DECC Department of steps to quantify as many extra optional into energy, carbon, waste and water Energy & Climate Change.
The inventory scope 3 emission sources related to our minimisation initiatives has led to a is independently calculated by our partner operation to boost our environmental impact considerable reduction in our carbon carbon consultants Envantage Limited.
assessment and emissions reduction plan.
emissions and water footprint profiles.
Total GHG tCO2e 2013 2014 2014 2015 Scope Source Comparison year Current year Scope 1 Gas 2,386.2 1,890.1 Diesel 477.3 573.2 HFC 259.8 261.0 Gas oil 101.2 56.6 LPG - 10.2 Company and pool car 149.5 137.8 Scope 2 Electricity 8,996.9 10,306.6 Total scope 1 and 2 12,370.9 13,235.5 Scope 3 Water 37.3 37.9 Employee Commuting 3,000.9 2,137.0 Business travel air, road and rail 1,100.0 1,883.4 Well to tank all 2,023.8 2,117.1 Total 18,532.9 19,410.9 Outside scopesBiogenic elementDiesel 11.9 13.8 Well to tank all 11% This table and chart illustrate our GHG Business travel air, emissions across all our reporting areas, road and rail 10% for the global Group from March 2014 to Gas 10% February 2015 and the previous year.
Diesel 3% LPG 0.1% Employee Commuting HFC 1% 11% Company and pool N Brown Group Plc GHG car 0.7% emissions profile Water 0.2% 2014-2015 tCO e ElectricIty 53% N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29 Corporate Governance Statement As a growing organisation, evaluation of meaningful comparison to be made emissions by GHG emissions in relation to scope 1 and 2 emissions performance between inventory periods.
The table both Group turnover million and million using intensity ratios allows a more below shows the scope 1 and 2 GHG items dispatched.
2013-2014 2014-2015 Intensity ratios Comparison year Current year % Change Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions tCO2e group turnover million 14.8 15.9 7.4% increase Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions tCO2e million items dispatched 400.4 370.2 7.5% decrease Since the last annual report the Group on a relative basis to the number of items As a responsible retailer, we have been we dispatched in 2014-2015, shows a purchasing green electricity for a number has increased operational hours and activities across its main distribution significant reduction of 16.8% when of years.
During the last inventory period compared to the previous year.
our green electricity accounted for sites to meet an increased demand 83.5% of our total profile.
In addition to for products.
This increased demand Electricity purchasing green electricity, we will now is illustrated in the increased number be generating our own green energy onsite of dispatched items during the 2014 - Although our overall Group energy following the recent installation of a solar consumption in kWh has reduced since 2015 period.
We have also increased PV plant at our main distribution centre.
the last reporting period, our electricity the number of facilities and supporting consumption in kWh has increased by services we operate as we have Diesel haulage 5.6% due to the growth of the Simply Be developed and grown our Simply Be high street brand.
However, electricity Diesel consumption has also grown brand.
Due to continued investment into consumption across all other divisions since the last year due to an increase in carbon reduction and energy efficiency, has remained static despite increased distance travelled and vehicle utilisation we have successfully reduced GHG working hours and increased handled in order to support our growing brand.
emissions per unit dispatched by 7.6% goods.
The Group have been working However, on a relative basis achieved since the previous reporting period.
to reduce electricity demand by ongoing miles per gallon MPG have actually The majority of the Groups scope 1 & energy management and investment into improved due to driver training, journey 2 GHG emissions tCO e, as outlined new technologies such as LED lighting.
planning and improved load management.
in the table on the previous page, are Although electricity consumption has Natural Gas associated with electricity, natural gas slightly increased since the last reporting and diesel internal haulage across period, our electricity GHG emissions Our gas consumption has significantly our facilities and vehicles.
Since the tCO e are indirectly higher due to an dropped across the group by 20.7% since last reporting period our actual energy increase in published electricity emissions the previous period, despite a colder consumption in kWh across electricity, factors for 2014.
Effectively the electricity winter and an increase in the number gas and diesel has reduced by 3.7%, grid is less green on average in 2014 than of handled items and steam cleaned despite a significant increase in business it was in 2013, making the associated returned goods.
Assessment of energy in kWh GHG emissions higher per kWh.
successfully reduced due to significant investment into heating controls, energy efficiency boilers and more efficient steam tunnels for returns cleaning.
Brown Energy 16% Green Energy 84% Mandatory GHG reporting notes This data disclosed is in conformance the companies Act 2006 strategic report and directors report regulations.
GHG emissions disclosed under the required reporting categories fall within the groups consolidated financial statement.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been calculated on a global scale where the group have operation control using the GHG protocol.
Green electricity profile The quantified emissions are for the 2014-2015 reporting year 1st March 2014 to 28th February 2015.
GHG emissions factors published by DECC for 2014 have been used to calculated GHG emissions.
30 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Statement Note change in emission for 2013-2014 Employees An employee profit share scheme has been introduced to enable employees to Data accuracy: Some data for the The Chief Executive has board level participate in the companys success.
The 2013-2014 inventory has been updated responsibility for employment matters.
scheme provides an enhanced bonus for based on actual data or more accurate Employee involvement - Our success has junior grades, providing greater benefit data for some sources.
differentials for employees promoted to been substantially contributed to by an Update in DECC emissions factors: engaged, enthusiastic, motivated and wellnon-management grades.
Emissions from the previous published trained workforce.
Considerable resources Over 500 group employees either hold report for the period 2013-2014 have are devoted to employee training, with a shares in the company or have options been recalculated with the newly large dedicated training team based in awards to acquire them through the published factors for 2014, affecting the the contact centre with around 40 people groups various share option and longmonths of January and February 2014 providing customer service and systems term incentive schemes.
2014 factors were not available at time training to ensure our customers receive of publish.
This has resulted in a slight the highest possible levels of service.
Consultation - Constructive relationships change in emissions reported.
exist with the trade unions that represent the A management development team based groups employees principally USDAW and Data records at head office provides learning and SATA.
Elements of the group are covered development support for head office Natural Gas and electricity: Data is by a collective bargaining arrangement with teams and all subsidiary and support primarily calculated based on actual USDAW.
Union membership is encouraged divisions.
The entire management metered consumption from invoices or and regular communication with the team undergoes a bespoke 360 degree meter readings.
Where actual metered union is facilitated through partnership appraisal process every two years with data is not available as energy is billed forums established on the principle of the intention of ensuring that everyone as part of a landlord service charge, shared commitment to business success, understands the impact they have on the energy consumption has been estimated employment security and development teams around them.
In 2013 we launched using floor areas and published with a particular emphasis on quality of life, simplybefrank, an employee survey used benchmarks.
Some data has been openness and adding value.
to validate engagement levels across estimated where quarterly bills have not the groups divisions and subsidiaries.
Equal opportunities yet been published.
The Customer Service team also run The group supports the principle of Gas oil: Fuel is used in stand by a separate engagement survey which equal opportunities in employment and generators and onsite transport forklifts provides results on a team level within the is opposed to all forms of discrimination, etc.. Data for onsite transport is division.
A Consultative Forum operates including those on the grounds of colour, calculated using actual fuel usage from within the logistics division where race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, employees from all levels contribute and invoices.
Generator fuel usage has been religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, estimated using generator fuel demand share ideas that help shape the culture marital status or disability.
This year the Logistics per hour and activation information.
division achieved Investors in People Our selection processes for recruitment, LPG: Fuel has been used in 2014 for accreditation at Gold standard, joining the promotion, training and development are space heating at one site.
Data is based Customer Service division which achieved non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in on invoices.
this standard in 2013. the best interests of employees and the Diesel: Data is calculated based on A large proportion of the groups training group to provide these opportunities to the actual fuel consumption from invoices.
most suitable candidates, and to achieve and development work is delivered by the HR learning and development team, which a balanced working population spread Company car: Data is primarily calculated across a diverse range of ethnic origins, is supplemented by external training in for the group using data logged in specialist technical and IT training areas gender and age groups.
our global expense system which where necessary as well as individually records distance travelled, and vehicle Applications for employment by disabled tailored training.
There is also a suite information for each business travel persons are thoroughly and sympathetically of self-training and e-learning tools expense claimed.
Any company cars considered, with the aptitude of the applicant available via an online database, simply not logged on this system have been being regarded foremost.
In the event of estimated based on milometer readings.
development, which enables employees to any employee becoming disabled during access a wide range of self-development HFC: Refrigeration emissions have been their employment, every effort is made to activities, tools and information.
calculated from the F-Gas register for ensure that their employment with the group applicable plant.
Emissions for plant The company has developed close continues and the group will endeavour to relationships with local universities not affected by this regulation smaller assist the employee by offering additional systems have been calculated using to retain talent within the northwest.
training, adapting the job if appropriate or We now offer graduate schemes in data provided by full service records.
by offering a transfer to another position.
It Where service records were not Buying, Quality & IT.
In addition we is the policy of the group that the training, offer placements within the Buying available for a very small number of career development and promotion of shops refrigeration losses have been and Merchandising function with many disabled persons should, as far as possible, graduates returning post degree.
estimated using DECC leakage tables.
be identical to that of other employees.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31 Corporate Governance Statement Health and safety conducted both directly and through Relations with investors third parties.
The health, safety and welfare at work of The company places considerable Our overall strategy is to adopt a multiimportance on good communication with its employees, contractors, visitors and channel approach to managing customer customers is paramount as is ensuring all shareholders, be they institutional or compliance with all relevant legislation.
contacts, with the key aim of a joined-up individual investors.
Institutional investors, and consistent customer experience The group is also committed to best fund managers and analysts are kept practice initiatives.
Our multi-channel informed of the companys overall strategy service platforms cover web, telephone, through regular meetings and investor As the number of our retail outlets mobile tablet and post, and will extend to road-shows and site visits.
All nonincreases, we ensure that we maintain our new store operations.
executive directors are kept informed our high health and safety standards of shareholders views through detailed We continually develop our web-sites for by having robust procedures, training, feedback on surveys and polls and richer product content, ease of use, and supervision and guidance.
Our audit analyst and broker reports are tabled at improved performance.
Optimisation for programme for the group ensures that each board meeting.
The senior nonmobile tablet devices is a priority due all sites are meeting the same exacting executive director is available to meet to the rapid growth of demand in this standards that we demand throughout.
with, and understand, the views of major channel.
Web self-service capabilities Cumulative group accident statistics show shareholders.
Other non-executive are delivered through a my account that for the year in review, reportable directors are available to meet major facility for customer orders and account accidents under Reporting of Injuries, shareholders as appropriate.
Web-enabled Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences contact centre capabilities are being The company aims to ensure that all Regulations 2013 RIDDOR have fallen deployed to support our web-trading shareholders have full and timely access as a percentage of our employees from customers, including multimedia, web to the information it discloses in the 0.03% in the previous year to 0.02%.
chat, click-to-call and social media.
annual report, the yearly and half yearly In the year in review, the group ratio announcements and interim management The group operates both in-house and of accidents per employee remained statements and that shareholders outsourced contact centres, predominantly static at 0.6%.
This reflects the work have the opportunity to meet with the located in the UK.
Our international completed to ensure that our new retail executive management team and certain businesses are supported through local sites maintain the high safety standards members of the operating division contact centres in the USA and Eire.
at the announcement of the groups Enquiries and complaints have been results and also at the annual general The groups Health & Safety and pro-actively reduced over recent years as a meeting.
Non-executive and executive Human Resources departments are proportion of customer order transactions, directors also attend meetings with major complemented by an Occupational Health reflecting the introduction of more shareholders on request.
As well as department, whose focus is to look after customer-oriented policies, processes and being provided with a copy of the annual the well-being of the groups employees.
Telephone, email report and results announcements, the The Department provides advice, and letter contacts received from customers group recently overhauled its website guidance and support on peoples fitness are analysed and remedial actions taken to to provide shareholders with up to date to work, on-site physiotherapy, chiropody improve our levels of service.
and comprehensive material about the and a counselling service.
Our speed of answering calls and group and its activities and also realWe endeavour to ensure that all products responding to emails has been improved time market information and prices.
and services sold by the group or used in and made more consistent.
Automated Shareholders also have the opportunity the workplace are safe and without risk speech services handle a significant to ask questions, make observations to employees and customers when used proportion of customer telephone and represent their views to the board properly.
payments and parcel collection requests.
of directors by constructive use of the We continue to invest in improved speed annual general meeting.
Customers of product deliveries to our customers and A key factor of the groups success is to offer more delivery service options such the strength of relationships with our as next-day or nominated day of delivery.
customers and their levels of satisfaction E-mails inform customers about their order with our group products and services.
We aim to attract and retain customers Service developments are planned through a highly competitive product and to further enhance our multi-channel service offering, regularly monitoring retail customer experience with new capabilities and home-shopping sector developments to offer personalisation and choice.
to stay in touch with our marketplace.
Individual customer needs and preferences Insights into our customers needs and will drive their relationship with us across expectations are regularly updated brands, products, services, channels, through customer satisfaction surveys offers, trading terms, and communications.
32 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
