Corporate Governance Governance Report Compliance with the UK Leadership The Role of the Board Chairmans responsibilities Corporate Governance Code The Board provides leadership of the Chairing and managing the business The Governance Report set out below, Groupand direction for management.
together with the Directors Remuneration iscollectively responsible and accountable Together with the Group Chief Executive, Report, is designed to provide shareholders tothe Companys shareholders for the leading the Board in developing the with a summary of the Groups governance long-term success of the Group and for strategy of the business and ensuring policies and practices and an explanation ensuring the appropriate management itseffective implementation by the ofhow the Company has applied the main andoperation of the Group in pursuit of Executive management team.
principles of the UK Corporate Governance itsobjectives.
The Board is responsible for Ensuring effective dialogue with Code the Code that was published in setting the Groups strategy, values and investorsconcerning mutual 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council standards and ensuring that the necessary understanding of objectives.
and which applied to the Company for controls and resources are in place to In conjunction with the Nomination thewhole of the financial year ended deliver these.
The Directors believe thecomposition and replenishment that the Company has complied with the The Chairman and the Group oftheBoard.
provisions set out in the Code during 2015 ChiefExecutive Periodically reviewing with the Board its save as described below.
A copy of the The roles of the Chairman and Group working practices and performance.
ChiefExecutive are held separately and Ensuring there is an effective contribution thedivision of responsibilities between Until his retirement from the Board following from the Non-Executive Directors and these roles is clearly established as the conclusion of the AGM on 6 May 2015, aconstructive relationship between shownbelow.
The Chairman is responsible Sir Andrew Foster had served on the Board Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
for leading the Board and ensuring its for more than nineyears and was no longer effectiveness.
The Group Chief Executive deemed tobeindependent under the Code.
The Chairmans other significant isresponsible for running the business Given his significant experience, Sir Andrew commitments are detailed in his biography ofthe Group and implementation of the continued to chair the Remuneration on page 54. strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
Committee until 6 May 2015 upon which date Jane Kingston became Chair of that Non-Executive Directors Committee.
Sir Andrew also remained a The Non-Executive Directors collectively member of the Nomination and Audit Group Chief Executives represent a robust element of the Board Committees until he stepped down as responsibilities and each brings with them his or her own aDirector as mentioned above.
Following Communicating a shared purpose expertise gained in a variety of business the appointments of Matthew Crummack andthe culture, vision and values of sectors.
They constructively challenge and and Mike McKeon as independent theGroup.
scrutinise the performance of management Non-Executive Directors on 6 May and The development and implementation and help develop proposals on strategy as 3July respectively, the opportunity was ofmanagement strategy.
well as ensuring high standards of financial taken toreview the membership of the The day-to-day management of the Group.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Managing the Executive management terms and conditions of appointment of the Committees.
As a result of this review team.
Non-Executive Directors are available for andthe subsequent appointments to the Fostering relationships with key inspection at each AGM, on the Companys Committees as set out on page 58, the stakeholders.
website and at its registered office during composition of the Committees became Leading the Group Executive Committee.
The Non-Executive inline with Code requirements.
The In conjunction with the Group Finance Directors disclose to the Board their other appointment of Dr Ashley Steel as an Director, communicating the Groups significant commitments.
The procedure additional Non-Executive Director to the financial performance to investors and adopted by the Company in relation to Board and to the Audit Committee from analysts.
Directors conflicts of interest is detailed 1January 2016 has strengthened further Liaising with the Chairman to ensure onpage 96. the collective expertise of thisCommittee.
effective dialogue with investors and stakeholders.
56 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Senior Independent Director TheCompany Secretary also facilitates Key matters reserved for Lee Sander became the Senior theinduction process and assists with Boardapproval Independent Director SID from 6 May professional development for Directors Group strategy and risk management 2015 replacing Jackie Hunt who stepped asrequired.
The Company Secretary acts Formulation and approval of long-term down from the Board on that date, having as Secretary to the Board and each of its objectives.
not sought re-election at the AGM.
The appointment or removal Approval of changes to capital structure.
as being available to shareholders whose of the Company Secretary is a matter for Approval of major changes to concerns have not been resolved through the Board as a whole.
As well as the management and control structures.
normal channels or when such channels support of the Company Secretary, Approval of extension of activities into would be inappropriate, the SID provides thereisa procedure in place for any new businesses or geographical areas.
Director to take independent professional asounding board for the Chairman and Financial and internal controls advice where considered necessary.
serves as an intermediary forthe other Oversight of risk management and Directors, where necessary.
Corporate governance framework internal control framework.
Executive Directors The Board discharges its responsibilities for Approval of Financial Statements and The Executive Directors are responsible for the leadership and control of the Group by: results announcements.
the day-to-day management of the Groups Approval of shareholder providing strategic direction and support businesses, implementation of its strategy, communications, circulars and notices in a manner which maximises policies and budgets and its financial ofmeetings.
opportunities to develop the business performance.
Executive management Approval of the auditors remuneration profitability, whilst at the same time meetings comprise the Executive Directors and recommendations for their assessing and managing associated risks: and senior management from the divisions appointment removal.
engaging at Board meetings with, and and are held regularly to discuss current Recommendation and declaration challenging, the Group Chief Executive, issues.
The Group Finance Director ofdividends.
Group Finance Director and other supports the Group Chief Executive in Monitoring the Groups businesses members of the Senior Management developing and implementing strategy in against plan and budget.
Group, as appropriate, on the financial relation to the financial and operational Approval of major capital expenditure and operating performance of the performance of the Group.
Groupand external issues material Approval of material contracts.
Company Secretary totheGroups prospects: and The Board has access to the advice and ensuring that the financial, management Board membership andCommittees services of the Company Secretary, Sandra and other resources required to meet Appointment of Directors.
Forbes, who is a qualified solicitor.
The itsobjectives are in place.
Approval of remuneration of the Company Secretary supports the Chairman Non-Executive Directors.
To help discharge its responsibilities, in the delivery of the corporate governance Setting of Board Committees terms theBoard has a formal schedule of framework and is responsible for advising ofreference.
mattersspecifically reserved for its the Board, through the Chairman, on all Approval of new share incentive plans.
decision, which forms the core of governance matters, including the planning theBoards agenda.
The Board has Corporate governance of agendas for the annual cycle of Board alsodelegated certain aspects of its Undertaking formal performance and Committee meetings so that all key responsibilities to the following principal reviewsof the Board, Committees issues are considered at the appropriate Committees: the Audit Committee, the andindividual Directors.
Every effort is made to ensure that Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Determining the independence information reported to the Board is of Committee and the Safety & Environment ofDirectors.
More details on each of these Receiving reports from the Companys and currency.
Directors are able to seek Committees can be found inthis report.
clarification or amplification from management where necessary.
Policies Review and approval of Group policies, for example: health and safety anti-corruption and bribery risk management strategy environment charitable and political donations workplace rights human rights.
com 57 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued Reporting framework Remuneration Audit Committee Group Board Reviews and is responsible for Committee Provides leadership of the Group and direction for management.
It is oversight of the Groups financial and Reviews and recommends to the collectively responsible and accountable to the Companys shareholders reporting processes: the integrity of Board the Executive forthe long-term success of the Group and for ensuring the appropriate the Financial Statements: the Remuneration Policy and management and operation of the Group in pursuit of its objectives.
external and internal audit processes: determines the remuneration Itsetsstrategy, values and standards and ensures that the necessary and thesystems of internal control packages of the Executive controlsare in place to deliver these.
Directors and members ofthe Senior Management Group.
More details on pages 64 to 67 More details on pages 72 to 95 Safety & Environment Nomination Committee Committee Group Executive Committee Reviews and recommends to the Reviews and challenges constructively Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, this Committee comprises Board the structure, size and the structure, content and operation of the Executive Directors, Group General Counsel, Managing Directors of each composition of the Board and its the safety management arrangements of the businesses and functional heads.
It meets on a monthly basis and is Committees.
It also has oversight put in place by members of the tasked with considering and approving operational business matters.
for succession planning of the Executive management.
It also reviews Board and senior management.
and monitors the Groups environment In addition, the UK & Middle East, Spanish and North American Executive performance and targets.
groups meet on a monthly basis and matters dealt with at these meetings More details on pages 68 and 69 are reported to the Group Executive Committee.
More details on pages 70 and 71 UK & Middle East Spanish North American Executive Executive Executive Board meetings The Board and its Committees have regular scheduled meetings and hold additional meetings as and when required.
Directors are expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings, the AGM and any general meetings.
The Board met eight times during 2015: six meetings were held in the UK, one in Spain and one in the US.
During 2015, strategy was reviewed aspart of both the January and September Board meetings.
Each Director attended as follows: Safety & The Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Environment Number of Board meetings of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings in 2015 8 4 4 7 3 Executive Directors Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 8 1 Matthew Ashley, Group Finance Director 8 Non-Executive Directors Sir John Armitt CBE 8 4 3 Joaqun Ayuso 7 8 4 3 Jorge Cosmen 8 4 3 2 Matthew Crummack 5 5 5 5 2 2 3 Sir Andrew Foster 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 3 Jackie Hunt 3 3 2 2 1 1 Jane Kingston 8 7 3 4 Mike McKeon 4 4 2 2 1 1 Chris Muntwyler 8 4 2 2 3 Lee Sander 8 2 2 2 2 7 3 Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Sandra Forbes, also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
1 Appointed to the Board on 28 January 2015.
From 10 October 2014 until his date of appointment, Matthew was interim Group Finance Director.
2 Appointed to the Board on 6 May 2015.
Eligible meetings are shown in brackets.
3 Resigned from the Board on 6 May 2015.
4 Appointed to the Board on 3 July 2015.
58 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION effectiveness of the mitigating actions Board activity throughout 2015 Financial performance Considered the financial performance of inplace excluding standing items the business and approved the budget Strategy, operational and funding Governance, stakeholders and key performance targets Reviewed the Group Strategic Plan for andshareholders Reviewed the half year and annual results 2016-2018 with external viewpoints Reviewed the Groups five Values and and approved the Annual Report beingprovided theextent to which they continued to Reviewed strategy updates on a Leadership and people underpin the Groups Vision quarterlybasis Reviewed the composition of the Reviewed regular safety updates together Reviewed, approved and received Boardand its Committees including with the structure, content and operation regularupdates on bids in each of consideration of diversity in its of the safety management arrangements theGroups divisions widestsense in place and the initiatives to enhance the Reviewed and approved bolt-on Appointed three new independent Groups safety profile acquisitions in North America Non-Executive Directors to the Board Reviewed and monitored the Groups Received presentations from each of the Reviewed succession planning for senior environmental performance and targets Groups divisions providing opportunities roles and the development of people and including the impact of the business on for the Board to engage with members talent within the Group the communities the Group serves and ofthe Senior Management Group the environment Reviewed and approved capital Internal controls and risk management Reviewed developments in corporate expenditure requests Reviewed the Groups Risk Register and governance and received regular key Reviewed and approved the 1 billion reviewed and validated the effectiveness legal updates Euro Medium-Term Note Programme to of the Groups internal control and risk Reviewed regular feedback from investors provide a flexible means of issuing bonds management systems and other stakeholders in various currencies and maturities Assessed significant and emerging risks, Discussed the outcome of the Board quantified the potential impact on evaluation and effectiveness review and business objectives and reviewed the agreed development opportunities If a Director is unable to attend a Board or quality to assist Directors in making Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Committee meeting, he or she still receives informed contributions and decisions.
This Committee all the papers and materials for discussion meets as required to deal with the control of The Board regularly and rigorously reviews at the meeting.
He or she will review them price sensitive information within the Group and benchmarks operational and functional and then advise the Board Chairman or and to ensure that timely announcements performance.
At each meeting the Board Committee Chairman of their views and are made in accordance with the receives a report from the Group Chief comments on the matters to be discussed Companys obligations under the Listing Executive on operational performance, and so that they can be conveyed to others at Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency from the Group Finance Director on the the meeting.
Due to a prior engagement, Rules.
Its terms of reference are also financial performance of the Group as a Joaqun Ayuso was unable to participate available on the Companys website at whole and each of the Groups businesses in the additional Board meeting held by www.
Other regular reports for the teleconference in December.
All Board Committees are authorised to Boards consideration at its meetings include capital expenditure requests, key obtain legal or other professional advice Only members of the Board are entitled to project reviews, summary activities of the asnecessary, to secure the attendance attend Board meetings, with the Company Board Committees and human capital, ofexternal advisers at their meetings Secretary in attendance to formally record legal, governance and investor relations andtoseek information required from each meeting.
This is also the case in reports.
Presentations from either a anyemployee of the Group in order to respect of Committee members and business Managing Director or a functional perform their duties.
The Executive Directors and head are also given at each meeting.
representatives of management, together Reports of each of the principal with the Companys advisers, are also The core activities of the Board and its Committees are provided on pages 64 invited to attend Committee meetings as Committees are documented and planned to95, and include information on each required.
Directors have the right to raise on an annual basis and a list of matters Committees membership, duties and any concerns they may have about the arising from each meeting is maintained activities throughout the year.
running of the Company, or a proposed and followed up at subsequent meetings.
course of action which cannot be resolved, The Group Chief Executive heads the The main items of business addressed by and have them recorded in the relevant Group Executive Committee which meets the Board during the year are shown in the meeting minutes and may also provide on a monthly basis and is tasked with table above.
awritten statement to the Chairman for approving operational business matters.
circulation to the Board, setting out such Principal Committees of the Board Inaddition, the UK & Middle East, Spanish concerns.
During the year the Chairman The main Committees established by and North American Executives meet on met on several occasions with the theBoard are the Audit Committee, amonthly basis and matters dealt with Non-Executives without the Executive theRemuneration Committee, the atthese meetings are reported to the Directors present to allow informal NominationCommittee and the Safety & Group Executive Committee.
discussions on a variety of issues.
Each Committee The reporting framework of the Board operates within defined terms of reference, Board agenda, oversight Committees and of the Group Executive the fullversions of which can be found andbenchmarking Committee and its sub-committees is ontheCompanys website at The Chairman and the Company Secretary shown on page 58. www.
Each are responsible for ensuring that the Committee reports its proceedings to the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear Board through the submission of reports information on all relevant matters so that and minutes as appropriate.
A Disclosure they are properly briefed in advance of Committee of the Board is also established meetings and the information is of sufficient with its membership comprising the www.
com 59 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued Meeting with the Groups auditor and As part of their continuing development, Effectiveness remuneration consultants.
and recognising the significant benefits to Composition of the Board be derived to both the Company and the We seek to build an effective and Board, Committees, and Chairmans individual, Executive Directors are permitted complementary Board which comprises performance evaluation to accept one external non-executive the correct balance of individuals whose An evaluation of the effectiveness of the directorship with a non-competing capabilities are appropriate for the scale, Board and its Committees is conducted company provided they first obtain Board complexity and strategic positioning of annually in accordance with the approval.
Dean Finch continued to hold an ourbusiness.
The Board consists of an followingcycle: external directorship of the Royal Free appropriate balance of Executive and London NHS Foundation Trust throughout Non-Executive Directors who collectively Year 1 Evaluation by independent 2015.
Matthew Ashley does not currently bring a strong and in-depth mix of business External consultants 2014 hold any external directorships.
skills and experience and considerable Advanced Boardroom knowledge to assist with Board decisions.
Induction of new Directors Excellence The process for Board appointments is led On appointment, Directors are offered by the Nomination Committee and is Year 2 Evaluation focused on Year training as appropriate and are thereafter described on page 69.
Internal 1 issues raised and any encouraged to keep abreast of matters specific new issues arising affecting their duties as a Director and to A list of the individual Directors, their questionnaire based attend training courses relevant to their role.
biographies and Committee memberships as at the date of this report are set out on Year 3 Progress review generally An induction process is in place for new pages 54 and 55.
Internal questionnaire based with Directors, the aim of which is to: follow-up interviews with Independence the Chairman build an understanding of the nature The Board considers all of the Nonofthe Group, its businesses and the Executive Directors to be independent markets in which it operates.
This year was the second in the Groups other than Jorge Cosmen.
Sir John Armitt establish a link with the Groups three-year performance evaluation cycle.
was considered to be independent prior employees.
The overall aim was to focus on those areas tohis appointment as Chairman.
build an understanding of the Groups identified for development resulting from main relationships including stakeholders Jorge Cosmen is not considered to be last years external Board evaluation and customers.
independent by the Board due to his close through assessing current performance, links with the ALSA business and significant progress made and opportunities for The following information is provided as interests in the shares of the Company improvement.
These were captured by part of the induction and ongoing training whichare held through European Express completion of surveys for the Board and and development of Board Directors.
Despite his noneach Committee comprising a number independence, the Board feels that it benefits On appointment ofopen questions on the workings greatly from Jorge Cosmens extensive local Governance information in relation to the andeffectiveness of the Board and its market knowledge andexperience.
Group, including the terms of reference Committees.
The outcome of the internal ofthe Board and its Committees.
evaluation was fed back to the Board at Non-Executive Directors do not participate Guidance for Directors of British public itsmeeting in November and a series of in any of the Companys share option or companies generally including under the actions agreed.
Lee Sander, the Senior bonus schemes and their service is law, the Code and the rules of the UK Independent Director, led the evaluation non-pensionable.
ofthe Chairman with participation by both Board minutes covering the Time allocation Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
It is in the Boards interest to ensure that Conclusions from the 2015 Internal Information on key Group policies.
allDirectors have sufficient time to commit Board Evaluation to their responsibilities as Directors.
The Following appointment The Board concluded that, overall, Chairman monitors the extent of Directors Business briefing meetings with the theoutcome of the 2015 Internal other interests to ensure that the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive BoardEvaluation was very positive in effectiveness of the individual and the andthe Group Finance Director.
respect ofthe Board, Committees and Board is not being compromised.
Meeting with the Company Secretary Chairmansperformance.
It was agreed todiscuss the Group structure, the In respect of the appointment of new that the workings of the Board and its Companys constitution and Board Non-Executive Directors to the Board, Committees remained effective and they procedures and terms of reference candidates are made aware of the time continued to operate to a high level.
In oftheBoard and its Committees.
commitment expected of them which is particular, the Board composition was Meetings with senior management reflected in their individual letters of considered strongand reflective of the inthefive divisions.
The Groups current operations with a good Meeting with the Director of Safety for Boardconsiders that all the Directors are cross section of experience and sector anoverview of the Groups health and currently able to devote sufficient time and non-sector, geographical and functional safety policy and safety record.
attention to their duties and responsibilities knowledge with relevant expertise.
60 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Diversity, in its wider sense, is present Good progress has been made against Director, concluded that the Chairman withfour different nationalities.
There was theareas for improvement identified in continued to operate to a high level, consensus that the materials presented theprevious external evaluation.
havinga good understanding of the tothe Board are of very high quality, with varyinginterests of shareholders and The review of the performance of the this years discussion material on strategy representing a strong and credible Chairman, led by the Senior Independent being singled out for particular praise.
Progress against 2014 external Board evaluation recommendations 2014 recommendations Actions taken in 2015 Non-Executive Director composition: Matthew Crummack, former CEO of lastminute.
com Group with the requisite identified Non-Executive Director skills to be kept digital marketing knowledge and skill set, was appointed as an independent Nonunder review in relation to future digital Executive Director on 6 May 2015. knowledge and skills needs.
A search led by the Nomination Committee for a new Non-Executive Director to replacethe departing Chair of the Audit Committee was undertaken over the course ofQ1 2015 with Mike McKeon, former CFO at Severn Trent PLC, having been appointed on 3July 2015, becoming Audit Committee Chairman on 1 August.
Additionally, Dr Ashley Steel was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2016.
She brings valuable transport, leisure and logistics experience.
Strategy: the Board to further enhance Measures have been taken to ensure that Group strategy is subject to more itsprocesses for strategy setting.
comprehensive debate and more closely aligned to the annual budget setting process.
More opportunities for discussion outside of the annual strategy review meetings have been created as part of the annual rolling Board calendar.
Communication to shareholders: the The Board continues to operate to best practice on shareholder engagement Board to continue to develop a more asrecommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Plans for continuing structured shareholder engagement plan shareholder engagement are on the agenda for discussion at the Remuneration following on from the direct shareholder Committee and are also discussed and agreed with the Senior Independent engagement on remuneration undertaken Director.
The Chairman also continues to engage regularly with shareholders.
Succession: the Board to have enhanced Succession planning for the leadership group is reviewed on an annual basis to fit engagement with the scheduled regular alongside strategy discussion.
Detailed reports on succession planning and talent review of the Executive succession management are prepared for Board consideration by the Group HR Director under pipeline.
Board information: the Board to build Enhancements continue to be made to the content and delivery of Board and further on exemplary Board information Committee papers and presentations.
The objective is to ensure that Directors provision.
continue to receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters sothatthey are properly briefed in advance of meetings and the information is of sufficient quality to assist Directors in making informed contributions and decisions.
Risk assessment: the Board to continue The Boards current robust and proactive process and approach will be continued its proactive approach to risk andenhanced to address ongoing operational matters as the Group extends into assessment.
Documentation: the Company Secretary A thorough review was initiated in 2015 to review the rolling annual agendas of to action the appropriate theBoard and its Committees, the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration recommendations on tightening the terms andExecutive Committees and matters reserved for the Board.
of reference, agenda developments for An improved framework for the Board and Committees planning process is now inplace.
The key areas for focus in 2016 The conclusions reached and the key areas identified and agreed for the Boards development for 2016 are set out below.
Area for focus during 2016 Comments Gender diversity Female representation on the Board currently stands at 18% following the recent appointment of Dr Ashley Steel as an additional Non-Executive Director.
The Board willtake every opportunity, when available, to increase the gender diversity of the Boardfurther.
Executive pipeline and Whilst the Nomination Committee continues to lead the way in the Boards succession planning consideration ofits own future succession and replacement needs, succession planning for the Senior Management Group and the level immediately below remains an areawhere additional engagement and dialogue would be welcomed.
More external viewpoints to be heard Further opportunities will be created for external presentations to be made to the Boardonrelevant topics.
Educational development opportunities for Greater focus on key areas of relevant education and development for Directors will Directors to be provided beaddressed during 2016. www.
com 61 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued The outcomes arising from this internal Annual fitness check process Group Board-level reporting evaluation process will be further reported internal audit undertakes an annual review oninternalcontrol in next years Annual Report.
ateach operating company to assess the During the year the Audit Committee integrity of the balance sheet and to check reviews regular reports from the internal Re-election of Directors the effective operation of key financial audit function, the external auditor and In accordance with the Companys Articles reporting and information systems controls.
Group Executive management on matters of Association, and the Code, all Directors The results of the reviews are presented to relating to internal control, financial of the Company will offer themselves for both divisional and Group finance with any reporting and risk management.
The Audit either election or re-election at this years required actions agreed with the relevant Committee provides the Board with an AGM.
Non-Executive Directors are divisional Finance Director.
independent assessment of the Groups appointed for specific terms, subject to financial position, accounting affairs and re-election.
Non-Executive Directors will Strategic and financial planning An control systems.
In addition, the Board only be put forward for re-election if, annual budgeting and strategic planning receives regular reports on how specific following performance evaluation, the process has been established whereby risks that are assessed as material to the Board believes the Directors performance each division and constituent operating Group are being managed.
continues to be effective and demonstrates company assesses its competitive position commitment to the role.
and goals, taking account of the strategic Review of internal control risks faced.
This strategy is translated into effectiveness Accountability afinancial plan with clear milestones and The system of internal control and risk Internal control statement performance indicators.
management, described above, has been The Boards responsibilities in place for the year under review and up to Capital investment A clear process The Board has overall responsibility for the the date of approval of this Annual Report isinplace for the approval of capital Groups system of internal control and for and Accounts.
Such a system is designed expenditure, which includes detailed reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board to manage, rather than to eliminate, the appraisal of the benefits of the proposed maintains full control and direction over risks inherent in achieving the Groups investment and any associated key risks.
appropriate strategic, financial, operational business objectives, and can therefore Material capital expenditure requires and compliance issues and has put in place provide only reasonable and not absolute Boardapproval.
an organisational structure with formally assurance against material misstatement or defined lines of responsibility, delegated loss.
The effectiveness of this system has Health and safety Health and safety authorities and clear operating processes.
been regularly reviewed by the Directors standards and benchmarks have been The systems that the Board has established inline with the Guidance on Audit established in all of our businesses and are designed to safeguard both the Committees, published by the Financial theperformance of operating companies shareholders investment and the assets Reporting Council in December 2010. inmeeting these standards is ofthe Group, and are described as follows: Where significant control failings or closelymonitored.
weaknesses have been identified, Key elements of the control Risk management reporting process appropriate corrective action has framework Each division and operating company beentaken.
Financial reporting process evaluates its internal control environment Management and specialists within the Going concern and longer-term and key risks, and the results are reviewed Finance Department are responsible for viability at management level and passed to the ensuring the appropriate maintenance of The Directors going concern and longerAudit Committee before being presented financial records and processes to ensure term viability statements, as required to be tothe Board.
This process is reviewed that all information is relevant, reliable and made under the Code for the year ended onaregular basis to ensure the validity inaccordance with the applicable laws and 31 December 2015, are set out on page 37 andrelevance of the key risks included regulations, and distributed both internally of the Group Finance Directors review.
The review covers strategic, and externally in a timely manner.
A review financial, compliance and risk management of the consolidation and Financial Remuneration controls.
These procedures are mandated Statements is completed by management The Directors Remuneration Report, and designed to manage the risk in order to ensure that the financial position and including details of Remuneration Policy toensure that the operations achieve their results of the Group are appropriately andservice contracts, is set out on business objectives.
All financial information published pages72 to 95. by the Group is subject to the approval of Internal audit The internal control Relations with shareholders the Audit Committee and Disclosure system is independently monitored The Board recognises the importance of Committee, where appropriate.
andsupported by a Group internal maintaining good communications with the auditfunction.
The Group internal audit Performance management The Companys shareholders to ensure mutual function reports to management and performance of each division and operating understanding of the Groups strategy, theAudit Committee on the Groups company against its plan is closely objectives, governance and performance.
financial and operational controls, and monitored by a formal monthly reporting monitors and reviews the extent to which its process and by the attendance of the recommendations have been implemented.
relevant Executive Directors at monthly divisional Executive meetings.
62 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION During the year shareholders are kept remuneration package for the Executive informed of the progress of the Group Directors and a revised Remuneration through regular corporate communications: Policywere designed to address the specific the Preliminary Results Announcement, concerns raised by shareholders.
The revised theAnnual Report and Accounts, the Remuneration Policy was put to shareholders HalfYear Results Announcement, the for a binding vote at the 2015 AGM with the Notice of Annual General Meeting, resolution being passed by a majority of 99%.
InterimManagement Statements and The Directors Remuneration Report on pressreleases regarding any other pages 72 to 95provides full details of the significant developments, as well as the Remuneration Policy which currently applies.
The Board is provided with regular updates Such communications are made available on the views and issues raised by the to the London Stock Exchange and are Companys investors.
During the year the simultaneously available on the Companys Board received external presentations website, www.
fromadvisers on shareholder and market perception of the Groups performance The Companys website houses a wide andstrategy.
Formal written responses range of information about the Group, aregiven to correspondence received including the Annual Report and Accounts, fromshareholders, as well as bilateral press releases, share price data and links engagement through the Group Chief tosubsidiary company websites.
Executive, Group Finance Director and From time to time the Company invites theCompanys investor relations function.
research analysts and institutional investors to presentations and site visits that are Analyst coverage designed to provide more understanding The Company is aware of 15 analysts ofthe strengths and capabilities of its whohave published equity research notes business operations and strategy.
covering National Express Group PLC during 2015 and we provide names Shareholders can receive documentation andcontact numbers of their firms on such as the Annual Report and Accounts ourwebsite.
electronically and are also able to cast their votes by proxy electronically.
The Company Private shareholders also has an electronic proxy appointment We welcome contact from our service for CREST members.
privateshareholders and are pleased to answertheir queries.
We encourage our Institutional shareholders shareholders to make use of our website The Board is committed to maintaining toaccess Company reports, notices of anopen dialogue with shareholders meeting and general shareholder and andrecognises the importance of that dividend information.
The website also relationship in the governance process.
provides a direct link to Shareview Afocused and proactive investor www.
co. uk which enables relationsprogramme is in place.
The shareholders to view and manage their Chairman, Group Chief Executive and shareholder account online.
Group Finance Director have held a number Annual General Meeting of meetings with existing and prospective Notice of the AGM and related papers are institutional shareholders during the year as sent to shareholders at least 20 working well as given presentations following the full days before the meeting.
Last years AGM year and half year results.
They have also included a presentation by the Group Chief met and given presentations to research Executive on the progress of the business analysts and stockbrokers sales teams.
and an opportunity for shareholders to The Companys appointed brokers and ask questions.
All of our Directors were investor relations advisers in turn have available formally to answer questions provided regular confidential feedback during the meeting and many circulated tothe Company on the views of the and talked to shareholders informally majorinstitutions.
Voting on the resolutions was The Chairman, Senior Independent Director conducted by poll.
Some 83% of the shares and other Non-Executive Directors are also in issue were voted and all the resolutions given the opportunity to meet institutional were passed with the exception of the shareholders and are available by contact requisitionists resolution.
During 2015 the Chairman met with major shareholders The results were published on the Groups to discuss the governance and direction of website shortly after the meeting.
forward to welcoming shareholders to our2016 AGM and updatingthem on the During the early part of 2015, members progress of thebusiness this year.
oftheRemuneration Committee continued itsfocused engagement with the Companyskey institutional shareholders andrepresentative bodies in order to gain agreater understanding of their views on Executive Directors remuneration.
As a resultof this open dialogue, a restructured www.
