Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report We continue to strengthen ourBoard in order to compete effectively in the marketplace digital marketing expertise.
I am delighted The appointment of Dr Ashley Steel as a Dear shareholder, to report that we filled this role with the Non-Executive Director from 1 January The main focus of the Committee this year appointment, in May, of Matthew Crummack 2016 isalso very welcome.
Ashley has has been to review the composition of our to the Board as an independent Nonadistinguished track record of providing Board and its Committees to ensure Executive Director.
Matthew brings with strategic advice to companies continued effectiveness.
Keeping in mind himsignificant knowledge of the acrossarange of sectors, especially the strategic aims ofthe Company and to digitallandscape from lastminute.
transport, and we will benefit from her ensure its ability to compete effectively in Hisexperience is directly relevant to knowledge andexperience.
itsmarketplace, we have evaluated the National Express as we place customers balance of skills, knowledge, experience In the coming year, we shall renew focus atthe heart of ourstrategy and constantly and diversity on the Board to identify onreviewing succession plans across the focus on delivering continuously thoseadditional key skills required.
In Group and lead the process for Board improvingservices.
addition tothe Executive appointment of appointments in order to align it to the MatthewAshley as Group Finance Director Companys long-term operational needs I am also pleased to report that we have in January, which was reported in last and governance oversight.
further strengthened the financial expertise years Nomination Committee Report, three on our Board with the appointment of further key Board appointments have been Membership Mike McKeon.
He brings significant made this year.
The membership of the Committee during financial andcorporate knowledge, coupled the year ended 31 December 2015 is set with wide-ranging international experience The Board had set itself the specific out below.
Four meetings were held during through his 15 years in the role of Group objective of recruiting a Non-Executive the year with attendance by members Finance Director within the listed company Director with astrong customer focused shown on page 58. environment.
Mike took over as Chairman background with particular emphasis on ofthe Audit Committee on 1 August.
Members biographies appear onpages54and55 Position Appointment date Sir John Armitt CBE Committee Chair and CompanyChairman 1 January 2013 Joaqun Ayuso Independent Non-Executive Director 26 February 2013 Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman 2 June 2008 Chris Muntwyler Independent  6 May 2015 Lee Sander Senior Independent Director 6 May 2015 Other attendees at Committee meetings: Attendee Company Secretary as Secretary to the Committee Group Chief Executive Group Human Resources Director External advisers: as appropriate Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
68 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION committed to maintain a minimum ratio of Role and responsibilities Nomination Committee activity 18% and we shall take every opportunity, The primary role of the Nomination During the year the Committee: when available, to increase the gender Committee is to ensure that the Board is made a formal recommendation to the diversity of our Board further.
With respect appropriately structured and has in place Board for the internal appointment of to Board appointments, we also take into the correct balance of individuals to Matthew Ashley as Group Finance account the guidance issued by the discharge its duties effectively, and to lead Director with effect from 28 January 2015 Equality and Human Rights Commission on the process by which new Board members following a search conducted by Russell appointments to boards and equality law.
It also advises the Board Reynolds and subsequent interview and onsuccession planning for Directors.
rigorous assessment process: Committee evaluation The Committees terms of reference evaluated the balance of skills, As part of the 2015 internal Board arereviewed annually and are available experience, independence, diversity performance evaluation, it was confirmed ontheCompanys website, andknowledge on the Board and then that the Committee was both effective www.
prepared a description of the role and andefficient in its operation and leadership.
capabilities required for the recruitment Areas identified for improvement concerned The Committees main duties and ofa new independent Non-Executive the timing and frequency of meetings and responsibilities in advising the Board Director and Audit Committee Chairman: undertaking a more regular review of aresummarised below: oversaw the appointments process for thestructure, size and composition three new independent Non-Executive oftheBoard.
Responsibility for identifying and Directors and interviewed shortlisted nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates, following which the candidates to fill Board vacancies as and appointments of Matthew Crummack, when they arise.
Mike McKeon and Dr Ashley Steel were Giving full consideration to succession subsequently recommended to the Board: planning, and keeping under review the recommended to the Board that Lee leadership needs of the organisation, Sander, with his substantial international both Executive and Non-Executive.
and transport infrastructure experience, Reviewing the time required from and Sir John Armitt CBE succeed Jackie Hunt as Senior spent by a Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee Chair Independent Director with effect from infulfilling his or her duties.
25 February 2016 6May 2015: and Leading the process for Board oversaw the induction process for newly appointments and making appointed Non-Executive Directors.
recommendations to the Board: preparing a description of the role Diversity andrequirements for any particular The Board takes the view that an increasing appointment based on its evaluation diversity at Board level is acknowledged ofthe Board as a whole.
asan essential element in maintaining a competitive advantage.
A truly diverse Advisers Board will include and make good use During the year, the Committee worked ofdifferences in the skills, regional and with search consultants, the Zygos industry knowledge experience, Partnership, to undertake a search for two background, race, gender, independence independent Non-Executive Directors.
and other qualities of Directors.
These Wealso worked with Russell Reynolds to differences will be considered in determining identify candidates for the role of Group the optimum composition of the Board and Finance Director to replace Jez Maiden will continue to be balanced appropriately.
who stepped down from the Board as All Board appointments are made on merit, anExecutive Director with effect from in the context of the skills and experience 31December 2014.
Neither the Zygos that the Board as a whole requires in order Partnership nor Russell Reynolds has any to maintain and enhance its effectiveness.
other connection to the Company.
With respect to Dr Ashley Steels appointment, Female representation on the Board is asearch consultancy was not used on this currently 18% and we are mindful of the occasion.
Dr Steel had previously come to recommendations of the Davies Review, the attention of the Nomination Committee Women on Boards, published in October as part of an earlier search process 2015 and the voluntary target of 33% for conducted during the latter part of 2014 female Board representation to be achieved which had led to the appointment of over the next five years.
The Board remains Matthew Crummack.
