Corporate Governance Governance in practice Building a deeper understanding of our business A clear framework for the Board Governance provides the framework within which the Board sets its values and delivers long-term success to the Company and its investors, balancing this with its duties to the wider stakeholder community.
Every year our Non-Executive Directors draw on their respective breadth of experience and knowledge when visiting frontline operations across the Group.
These offer a great opportunity to get to theheart of business, and deliver a unique insight into how the business operates.
insight into how they manage and live our This, in turn, informs Board discussions.
This section illustrates a number of these numberone priority Following meetings with local management visits.
Our Safety and People Values were and a tour around their bus maintenance the focus of two visits with another forming Safety is our highest priority in whatever facility, Chris gained a better understanding part of our induction programme for new wedo as a business, and our performance of their business and the new opportunities Board members.
is monitored by our Safety & Environment being explored.
standards and initiatives set across the Group, Chris said: I am very pleased to All of our Non-Executive Directors are seehow dedicated everybody is at Trans members of our Safety & Environment Express to safety and how stable the Committee which is responsible for respective processes are.
He left Trans reviewing and challenging constructively Express with the impression of a very thestructure, content and operation of the strong and motivated team under Mary safety management arrangements put in Rubinos leadership.
Chris Muntwyler chairs this Committee and, in addition to the Our first German rail services on the formal Committee meetings, receives regular RhineMnster Express lines launched input from the Group Safety Director on inmid-December with 35 new Talent safety performance across the Group and 2electric trains, built by Bombardier, itsindependent monitoring by Arthur D Little.
whichwe procured on behalf of the localauthorities.
Prior to the start-up of To complement the formal reporting lines operations, Chris took the opportunity to inplace and to witness first-hand how our visit the train manufacturer in Berlin to gain safety management arrangements are a first-hand impression of the quality of the embedded within our operations, Chris Chris Muntwyler meets the team new trains and to meet with Bombardier atTrans Express in Brooklyn takes the opportunity, wherever possible, management.
They replace older and, to visit key sites and engage with local inmany cases, less accessible trains.
Jane Kingston tries out the bus With these new trains, we hope to simulatoratMemphis In September, he paid a visit to one of achievea dramatic quality and reliability ournewly acquired businesses in North improvement for our train customers in the Mike McKeon visits the Customer Service America Trans Express based in Cologne area.
Not only did we choose the Centre in Aurora Brooklyn, New York.
He met with the latest and most reliable technology, but previous owners, including the General these trains bear the full National Express Manager, Mary Rubino, in order to welcome brand inside and out, he said.
them to National Express and to gain an 52 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Theconclusion was reached that Durham People a great Schools was a good place to work with some thoughtful ideas having emerged which will place to work be followed through over the coming year.
Jane Kingston, having served on the The focus group programme will be Board over the past two years, took over developed and rolled out across a number from Sir Andrew Foster as Chair of the of sites in North America and the UK.
As part of our talent development and Given her background, experience and succession planning process, we launched the specific interest in People issues generally National Express Network in early December.
across the Group, Jane has created the The Network, probably the first worldwide time and opportunity to visit some ten sites gathering of its kind within the transport across all our divisions in the UK, Spain and industry, enables graduates from our bus, rail North America in order to better understand and coach operations in the UK, Spain and how she might add value and influence, as North America to learn from each other and well as challenge, human resource initiatives work more closely together as well as in her Non-Executive capacity.
maximising their own individual potential.
In the North American School Bus business, Janeattended the launch event held at the Jane has been impressed by some great people Warwick Business School along with the on the front line drivers, maintenance teams Executive Directors and other members of all of whom are committed to the safe transport theSenior Management Group.
Jane praised of children and serving the client school boards.
the structure of the inaugural meeting of the Whilst in the US prior to the September Board Network which had been well received by our meeting, Jane was actively involved in an young talent pool across the businesses.
Jane employee focus group at the Memphis believes that such opportunities to meet Board Customer Service Centre.
She and the local members and the Senior Management Group management team wanted to hear directly from are valuable and inspirational.
This type of our people on their thoughts on what it is like to initiative is very powerful for our graduates, work for the Durham School business.
enabling their eyes to be opened to the range of opportunities available to them during the Jane said: This initiative worked very course of their career with National Express.
wellwith some insightful and positive They know what they belong to, she said.
contributions being made at every level.
Our staff are taking the next generation Induction delivers ofAmericans and Canadians to their schooling in safety every day of their school broad business lives.
That is a significant responsibility and insights great privilege that we, as Board members, must not forget.
The objective of an effective induction This realisation alone merits the trip in my process is to provide a new Director with eyes and adds greatly to my induction as the information he or she will need to anew Director.
It is not something I could become as effective as possible in their easily comprehend just by reading a rolewithin the shortest practicable time.
document back home, he said.
During the year, we appointed three new Mike was impressed by the caring qualities independent Non-Executive Directors demonstrated by our people: It was very witheach following their own induction clear to me that what they do really matters programme.
As part of his induction to them.
Staff were enthusiastic and programme, Mike McKeon, Chairman engaged with me as a visitor they wanted oftheAudit Committee, visited our North to tell me what they were doing a clear American School Bus Customer Service sign of enthusiasm for the job.
Centres in Memphis and Aurora.
The benefits of Mikes direct engagement Mikes visit to a Durham School bus site with local management and frontline staff inAurora coincided with the mid-morning within our operations has allowed him to return of all the yellow buses simultaneously understand what we do and, more which, in his eyes, created the impression importantly, why we do it.
Mike concluded ofsomething important happening.
In by saying: The bedrock of what I saw in bothMemphis and Aurora hundreds of our people suggested, above all, that they ourstaff had safely delivered that day some wanted to get the kids to school and back thousands of children to their school and safely.
would do the reverse later in the day.
No doubt this was replicated several thousand times over the US and Canada that day and it was only later on my trip home it really sunk in to me the importance of what our staff and ourselves are doing here.
