Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Throughout 2015, the Audit Committee has continued to play a key oversight role for the Board Throughout 2015, the Committee has 2015 financial year.
These relate to the Dear shareholder, continued to play a key oversight role more forward looking nature ofthe going I am pleased to introduce my first report forthe Board.
Through its activities, concern statement, a more rigorous asChairman of the Audit Committee the theCommittee focuses on maintaining andregular review of risk management Committee, having taken over from theintegrity and quality of our financial andtheintroduction of a longer-term Jackie Hunt who stepped down from the reporting, considering the significant viability statement.
We have reported on Board on 6 May 2015 and Chris Muntwyler accounting judgements made by compliance with these new requirements who held this position on an interim basis management and the findings of the inthis Audit Committee Report, the pending my own appointment as external auditor.
Italso reviews the Corporate Governance Report and Committee Chairman on 1 August 2015. appropriateness of our system of risk elsewhere in the Strategic Report.
The I should like to take the opportunity to management and internal controls, and regular challenge and engagement with thank them both for their work in this role the effectiveness of both our internal and management, internal audit and the during the year.
I would also like to thank external audit processes.
The Committees external auditor, together with the timely Sir Andrew Foster, who served on the activities have continued to grow in the light and clear receipt of a high standard of Committee since 2004, for his valuable of the new best practice recommendations reporting and information from them, contributions and welcome, inhis place, of the UK Corporate Governance Code hasenabled theCommittee to discharge Lee Sander, our Senior Independent 2014 the Code and compliance with itsduties andresponsibilities effectively.
Director, who joined the Committee on these has enabled the Committee to Onbehalf oftheCommittee, I thank 6 May.
From 1 January 2016, Dr Ashley Steel add further value to the Group.
As a former Vice Committees terms of reference were Chairman at KPMG and Global Chair for its I hope you find my review and the report updated in February to reflect changes transport, leisure and logistics practice, we that follows helpful in understanding the introduced to the Code and which apply to welcome the contribution she will bring to work of the Committee during the year.
the Group for the first time inrespect of the theCommittee.
Membership The membership of the Committee during the year ended 31 December 2015 is set out below.
Attendance at meetings held during the year is shown on page 58.
Members biographies appear on pages 54 and 55 Position Appointment date Mike McKeon Committee Chairman and Chairman from 1 August 2015 and Non-Executive Director membersince 3July 2015 Chris Muntwyler Former Committee Chairman and Member since 21 November 2011 Non-Executive Director andChairman interim from 6 May to1August 2015 1 Jackie Hunt Former Committee Chairman and Member and Chair from 13September 2012 Senior Independent Director until 6May 2015 1 Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director Member from 23 November 2004 until 6May 2015 Lee Sander Senior Independent Director Member since 6 May 2015 1 Retired from the Board on 6 May 2015.
Other attendees at Committee meetings: Attendee Company Secretary as Secretary totheCommittee Company Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Head of Group Internal Audit Group Financial Controller External Auditor: Deloitte LLP 64 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Qualifications of Audit Audit Committee activity Committee members The key areas of Committee activity during the year, and through to the date of this report, I am considered by the Board to meet the included the planning, monitoring, review and approval of the following: requirements of the Code that at least one Financial reporting Risk management and internal Committee member has recent and Quality and appropriateness of the half control relevant financial experience.
year and annual Financial Statements Scope of the internal control and risk Role and responsibilities including accounting policies, key areas management programme.
The primary role of the Committee is to of financial judgement and associated Adequacy and effectiveness of the assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight reports from the external auditors Groups internal control and risk responsibilities with regard to financial regarding their audit findings.
reporting, risk management and internal Assessment and management of The results of internal audit reviews controls procedures and the work of its significant risks for the Group for the andthe progress made against agreed internal audit function and external auditor.
The Committees terms of reference are The information, underlying assumptions The results of internal audit compliance reviewed annually and are available and stress test analysis presented in testing of financial controls annual fitness ontheCompanys website, support ofthe going concern statement.
Consistency and appropriateness of the Bi-annual detailed review of the Groups financial control environment.
RiskRegister, including significant and The Committees main duties and Extent to which the Annual Report is fair, emerging risks.
responsibilities in advising the Board balanced and understandable.
Review of the Groups IT risk strategy include the following: anddisaster recovery plan.
Viability Statement Establishment during the year of a Cyber reviewing the half year and annual The Committee considered the Security Committee, chaired by the Financial Statements including introduction of the new enhanced Group Finance Director and constituting accounting policies, key accounting and requirements of the Code for the Board the Group IT Director, divisional heads auditing issues, significant financial toassess the Groups future viability and ofIT and the Groups external security judgements and the financial control considered the following points before consultants.
recommending to the Board the statement periodically to assess, prioritise and Overseeing the process for selecting the on viability included on page 37. monitor significant cyber security threats external auditor, assessing the continuing An assessment of the prospects of the facing the Group, and to develop plans independence of the external auditor and Group, taking into account the Groups for their management.
recommending approval of the audit fee current position, opportunities, strategic Review of reports on fraud and to the Board.
Ensuring that provision of non-audit The future period over which it is services does not impair theexternal appropriate for the Group to assess Internal audit auditors independence orobjectivity.
Scope of the internal audit plans for Liaising with the external auditor on Identification of risks which have the 2015and 2016. matters relating to the nature and scope potential to affect the Groups strategic Effectiveness of the Groups internal audit of the audit and any issues or concerns plans over the lookout period, including function and internal controls including arising from the audit process.
those principal risks and uncertainties feedback from divisional managing Reviewing the effectiveness of the described in the Strategic Report and directors.
Companys internal control and risk others which could impact the Boards Review of annual independence management systems, including fraud assessment of the Groups viability.
prevention and operation of the Qualification of the risks identified in the Selection of a new Head of Group Companys whistleblowing policy.
context of the Groups internal control Internal Audit following the appointment Supervising the planning of activities framework and of potential mitigating of the previous incumbent to the position under the internal audit programme and actions, and the ability of the Group of Finance Director of the UK Bus division.
reviewing the major findings identified to withstand severe but plausible from internal audit investigations.
Tax and treasury downside scenarios.
Review of the Groups treasury policy, Any qualifications necessary to inform Meetings including consideration of the key orsupport the readers understanding Four Committee meetings were held in treasury risks facing the Group foreign ofthe viability statement.
Details of attendance at these currency, interest rate, fuel price and meetings can be found on page 58.
External audit counterparty risk and the approach Outside of the meeting process the Scope of the 2015 external audit plan totheir management.
Committee Chairman has regular contact andfees.
Review of the annual update of the with the Executive Directors, other Review of the effectiveness of the Groups tax affairs.
Committee members and the internal external audit process and assessment Other external auditor on a variety of topics.
The of theperformance, continued Review of corporate governance and Committee itself meets with both the Head independence and recommendation to legal and regulatory compliance.
of Group Internal Audit and the external the Board ofthere-appointment of the Review and update of the Committees auditor at least oncea year without the external auditor.
Internal review of the effectiveness of the Level of fees paid to the external auditor At the invitation of the Committee, Committee concluding that it continued for non-audit services.
andasappropriate to the matters under tooperate effectively.
Selection of the new engagement partner discussion, meetings may be attended by Review and approval of the Committees from Deloitte for the 2016 financial year the Executive Directors, other members report for inclusion in the Annual Report.
following the mandatory rotation of ofsenior management and internal and Nigel Mercer after his five years of external auditors.
Full minutes are kept by engagement.
Stephen Griggs, Head of the Secretary of the matters considered Audit and Risk Advisory for Deloitte in the and decisions taken by the Committee.
UK, will take up hisduties from the start of the 2016 financial year.
com 65 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee Report continued the interpretation and application of tax to assess National Express performance, Financial reporting law, which can lead to uncertainties in the business model and strategy.
andsignificant financial estimation of provisions and recognition judgementsfor 2015 Risk management and of deferred tax balances.
On complex Goodwill impairment internalcontrols issues management may seek external As it is required to do annually, the The Board as a whole, including the tax advice to ascertain whether Committee considered whether the Committee members, considers the provisions should be made.
Where tax carrying value of goodwill and intangible natureand extent of National Express exposures can be quantified and meet assets held by the Group should be riskmanagement framework and the risk the criteria for recognition, best estimates impaired.
The judgements largely related profile that is acceptable to achieve the are made and provisions recognised.
to the assumptions applied in calculating Companys strategic objectives.
As a These estimates are based on the the value in use of the Spanish Coach result, it is considered that the Board judgement of senior management in the and Bus and the North American School hasfulfilled its obligations under the Code.
light of the facts and available information, Bus businesses.
When testing for and are reviewed by the Committee.
impairment, the key considerations were The Committee continues to be responsible TheCommittee also reviews reports the underlying cash flows, the discount for reviewing and monitoring the adequacy, fromthe Companys external auditor as rates and the future growth rates.
The design and effectiveness of the Groups to the appropriateness of the judgements Committee received a detailed report on ongoing systems of internal control and risk madeby management.
The Committee the outcome of the impairment reviews management.
In that regard, the Committee issatisfied that the treatment and performed by management and took into received reports from management and the disclosure of the Groups tax affairs in account the views of the external auditor.
Head of Group Internal Audit aswell from theConsolidated and Company Financial The Committee concluded that the the external auditor.
Statements are appropriate and sufficient.
goodwill and intangible assets of the Other matters Further details of the internal controls Spanish Coach and Bus and the North The Committee also considered the key areset out on page 62.
A summary of the American School Bus businesses were assumptions underpinning the Groups Companys risk management framework not impaired and it approved the defined benefit pension obligations, and and an overview of its principal risks are disclosures included in the 2015 the accounting for the Groups financial detailed on pages 28 to 31.
derivatives and the associated tests for Insurance and other claims Internal audit hedge effectiveness.
The Committee The Committee considered the The Committee has oversight received reports from management and adequacyof the provisions associated responsibilities for the internal audit considered the views of the external auditor with insurance and other claims risks, functionwhich is led by the Head of on the appropriateness of the defined particularly in North America.
benefit pension assumptions with assessment focused on the advice reference to the latest market assumptions The purpose of the internal audit function received from a third party actuary in and employee pension benefits.
Reports isto provide an independent, objective connection with the Groups exposure were also received from management and assessment of the effectiveness of internal toauto and general liability and workers the external auditor on the fair value of the controls, risk management and governance compensation insurance claims.
Groups financial derivatives and support processes throughout the Group.
The Consideration was also given to the most for the tests for hedge effectiveness, function adds value by: likely outcome, and associated financial particularly on the Groups fuel derivatives effect, of other claims and exposures contributing to the continuous following recent changes in market values.
The Committee improvement of internal control Following consideration, the Committee received a report from management andrelated processes, including concluded that the defined benefit pension onNorth American insurance and identifying and sharing good practice assumptions were reasonable and that otherclaims and considered the views across the Group: financial derivatives were fairly stated.
The Committee addressing the safeguarding of assets, concluded that the insurance and other compliance with applicable laws and Fair, balanced and claims provision was fairly stated.
regulations and achievement of understandable Taxation managements operational objectives: At the request of the Board, the Committee The Committee considers the adequacy promoting business processes that undertook a formal review of the annual and sufficiency of the disclosure of the deliver effective internal control at report process in terms of preparation, Groups tax affairs in the Annual Report reasonable cost: and quality of content, key themes and and the appropriateness of the providing alignment with the Groups messages, consistency of information and accounting treatments adopted to riskmanagement process.
From the information and reflectthe Groups tax charge, assets assurance provided by management and An Internal Audit Charter sets out the andprovisions in accordance with the review conducted by the external responsibilities of both the internal audit International Financial Reporting auditor, the Committee was able to confirm function in terms of its focus, programme Standards.
Tax legislation across the to the Board that the 2015 Annual Report, ofactivity, scope of investigations and markets in which the Group operates is taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and reporting lines, and management in terms complex, and sometimes management understandable and provides the ofit providing support and co-operation at and the relevant tax authorities differ in necessary information for shareholders all levels of the business.
66 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION During 2015, a carefully targeted internal Audit Services for Large Companies Services that are considered to have audit plan was agreed and undertaken on MarketInvestigation Mandatory Use of general pre-approval by the Audit certain of the Groups operations, systems Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee, by virtue of the approval and support functions with subsequent Committee Responsibililties Order 2014. ofthe policy.
reports, including management responses The Company last put its external audit Services that require specific preand recommended action plan, considered contract out to tender in 2011, following approval, on a case-by-case basis, by the Audit Committee in January, July which Deloitte LLP replaced Ernst & Young before any work can commence.
LLP and was appointed as the Groups Services that cannot be supplied by the auditor.
The Committee regularly considers external auditor prohibited services.
The performance of the Group internal the marketplace, benchmarking the current auditfunction itself continues to be assessed The services that have general pre-approval level of audit services that the Company on an ongoing basis and the Committee are tax, transaction investigation, and receives along with the fees it pays and believes it is effective in the role it carries out.
advisory and corporate finance services.
The Committee The fees for these services are prerecognises that audit tenders and Anti-bribery policy approved up to 50,000 for each non-audit transitions to new auditors require A Group anti-bribery policy has been assignment undertaken and subject to an significant resource.
On the basis that the established and issued to all Group overall limit of 75% of the total fees paid to quality of service remains high and the audit companies and is also available the external auditor.
For services exceeding fee represents good value to shareholders, ontheGroups website at this limit specific pre-approval is required.
the Committee will next tender the audit for www.
The the year ending 31 December 2021.
Indeciding whether or not to grant approval policyprohibits any inducement which for the provision of specific services by the results in a personal gain or advantage Assessment of the effectiveness external auditor, the Audit Committee tothe recipient or any person or body and independence of the includes in its consideration the associated with them, and which is external auditor and external followingfactors: intended to influence them to take action audit process which may not be solely in the interests Whether the external auditor is best The Audit Committee assesses and reviews ofthe Group or of the person or body placed to provide an effective and on a regular basis the independence and employing them or which they represent.
efficient service, given its knowledge effectiveness of the external auditor.
As part The prevention, detection and reporting of and understanding of the Companys of its determination, the Audit Committee bribery is the responsibility of all employees processes, systems and people.
reviewed the scope, materiality threshold and throughout the Group.
The level of non-audit fees paid to fees for the external audit plan and received the external auditor in the year as Whistleblowing policy and considered the external auditors a proportion of the annual external Whistleblowing policies are in place in assessment of the significant risks affecting audit fee.
each of the Groups businesses and are the Group as detailed above.
The Committee also available on the Groups website, also considered a report by the external The majority of non-audit work undertaken www.
The auditor on the firms independence which is by the external auditor during the year Board supports the highest standards of required in order to carry out itsprofessional relates to advice in respect of tax advisory corporate governance and ethical practices duties and responsibilities as auditor.
The split within all its operations and continues to between audit and non-audit fees for the year Additionally, the effectiveness of the 2015 review its policies on an ongoing basis.
ended 31 December 2015 appears in note 6 external audit process was formally assessed TheBoard has endorsed a set of principles to the Consolidated Accounts.
by the Committee to meet the expectations which establish the framework for how its set out in provision C3.2 of the Code.
This The Committee is aware of the Audit businesses operate.
Key to these is working was carried out through the use of a survey Regulation and Directive issued by the in an open and honest manner.
The Group and analysis approach taking into account European Parliament and Council of the is committed to the highest standards the views and opinions of the Group finance European Union in 2014 which, it is ofquality, honesty, openness and team and divisional Finance Directors.
In so expected, will require changes to both the accountability.
Employees are encouraged doing, the Committees review and qualitative Ethical and Auditing Standards and the to raise genuine concerns under the policy assessment focused on feedback and Code, including the provision of non-audit either by contacting their line manager or insights, process and communication, services by auditors.
The Group is closely telephoning a dedicated external helpline.
handling of issues and quality of team.
The monitoring the process by which the Audit Any concerns raised are investigated Committee is satisfied that the external audit Regulation and Directive will ultimately be carefully and thoroughly to assess what process continues tobe effective and adopted in the UK and the Committee will action, if any, should be taken and provides an appropriate independent make changes as necessary to its policies confidential records are maintained.
The challenge to the Groups senior management.
to ensure compliance with the new Company Secretary reports any matters of regulation ahead of its effective date.
significance to the appropriate committee.
Having completed its assessment of both In 2015 there have been no significant the external audit process and the external Committee effectiveness cases relating to fraud or financial auditor for the financial period under review, Feedback from the annual performance misconduct.
the Committee is satisfied that the auditor evaluation of the Board and its Committees, has performed satisfactorily in 2015, that External audit as described earlier in this report on pages the audit process implemented was The external auditor is engaged to express 60 and 61, confirmed that the Audit effective and that the external auditor an opinion on the Companys Financial Committee continued to be effective in remains independent.
The audit includes the review fulfilling its duties.
and test of the systems of internal financial The Committee is therefore happy to control and the data contained in the recommend to the Board that Deloitte LLP Financial Statements to the extent necessary be put forward for re-appointment at the to express an audit opinion on the truth and 2016 AGM.
fairness of the Financial Statements.
Non-audit services External audit tendering policy The Committee has an approved policy on Mike McKeon The Committee confirms its compliance for the provision of non-audit services by its Audit Committee Chair the financial year ending 31 December auditor for the following types of service: 25 February 2016 2015 with the provisions of the Statutory www.
