ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee and external audit The composition of the Committee is described on page 41.
The Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults with external auditors and senior management, including internal audit, where appropriate.
The Committee frequently requests that executive directors and senior managers attend meetings in order to reinforce a strong culture of risk management and to keep the Committee up to date with events in the business.
The Group Finance Director attended all of this years meetings and the Group Chairman attended all but one.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews strategic and operational risk, and has reviewed the key risks described on pages 24 to 26 and the associated controls and mitigating factors.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports and briefings from internal audit and has reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is adequate for the size, structure and business risks of the Group and is supplemented with appropriate external resources where needed.
The Committees review of the interim and full year financial statements focused on the following areas of significance: a Directory receivables and related provisions for doubtful debts.
These, at 712m, represent the largest asset class on the Groups balance sheet.
The Committee regularly reviews the basis and level of provisions and was satisfied that the judgements taken were reasonable, consistent and appropriate: b Pension scheme funding, accounting and actuarial reports.
Prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards, the Groups balance sheet shows a net surplus of 38m, comprised of 775m assets and 737m liabilities.
This compares with a net surplus of 70m in the previous year.
The assumptions underlying the calculations are highly sensitive to small changes, particularly in respect of discount rates see Note 21 to the accounts, and are not intended to reflect the full cost of a fully funded pension buy-out: c Foreign currency hedging.
Forward contracts and options are used to manage the Sterling cost of future product purchases: this enables selling prices and gross margins to be set.
The systems and processes in relation to the valuation and accounting treatment of such contracts were reviewed with management and agreed with the external auditor: d Judgemental accounting areas.
There is a requirement for industry specific and general accounting estimates, including those in respect of stock valuation, product returns rates, onerous leases, gift card redemptions, taxation and share schemes.
The Committee satisfied itself as to the reasonableness and consistency of these estimates through discussions with management and the external auditor.
These were also addressed at the planning stage of the external audit and there were no significant differences between management and external auditor conclusions.
The Audit Committee performed a detailed review of the Groups projected cash flows, facilities and covenants and reported to the Board that, in its view, the going concern assumption remains appropriate.
The operations of the Group and, in particular the Directory business, are highly reliant on the Groups IT systems.
The Committee receives regular briefings from the IT and operations teams covering various aspects of IT and cyber security.
In this rapidly moving area, there is inevitably a risk that a systems failure or cyber-attack could cause significant business disruption.
Significant resources are therefore devoted to the development, maintenance and security of the IT systems.
The Committee also received reports and presentations from senior management on significant activities of the Group, including Directory marketing and e-commerce, regulatory developments, critical supplier risk management, property, corporate responsibility and Code of Practice ethical and responsible sourcing.
The Groups internal control functions in areas such as Finance, IT, and Product are regularly reviewed by the Committee.
Frequent briefings are received on Health and Safety, Risk Management, Business Continuity, Whistleblowing and Corporate Governance generally.
45 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee is aware of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB proposal for bringing all leases on to the balance sheet.
The Chairman of the Committee and Group Finance Director have had meetings with representatives of accounting standard setters, and other interested parties, to express the Groups opposition to the current proposals.
Implementation of the IASB proposal would fundamentally change the Groups balance sheet by bringing on some 2bn undiscounted of theoretical right to use assets, together with broadly matching lease liabilities.
The proposals would have no impact on the Groups cash flows: but would add volatility, complexity and assumptions to the balance sheet as the Group actively manages the 500 properties from which it trades or leases, as well as adding compliance costs.
The Committee had discussions with the external auditor on audit planning, fees, accounting policies, audit findings and internal control.
The external auditor attended all of this years Committee meetings.
Meetings are also held with the auditor without management present.
The effectiveness of the audit was assessed through the review of audit plans, reports and conclusions and through discussions with management and the external auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that the audit was effective.
The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor.
Consideration is given each year to an audit tender process, however, a tender was not considered necessary during the current year.
EY, or its predecessor firms, have been the Groups auditor for over 20 years.
There has been regular partner rotation, most recently in 2012.
The Committee is satisfied that EY continues to possess the skills and experience required to fulfil its duties effectively and efficiently.
The appointment of the external auditor will continue to be reviewed annually and a tendering process will be undertaken to coincide with the rotation of the current audit partner in 2017, or earlier if the Committee considers it appropriate.
The Committee also acknowledges the recent change in the law requiring mandatory auditor rotation.
EY have reported to the Committee that, in their professional judgement, they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit Committee has assessed the independence of the auditor, and concurs with this statement.
In order to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditor, the Board has strict policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Audit Committees approval is required in advance for the provision of any non-audit services if the fee exceeds 100,000 for an individual assignment, or if the aggregate non-audit fees for the year exceed either 150,000 or 20% of the audit fee.
The Committee reviews audit and non-audit fees twice a year.
Proposed assignments of non-audit services with anticipated fees in excess of 50,000 are generally subject to competitive tender and decisions on the award of work are made on the basis of competence, cost-effectiveness and legislation.
A tender process may not be undertaken where existing knowledge of the Group enables the auditor to provide the relevant services more costeffectively than other parties.
The Groups external auditor is prohibited from providing any services that would conflict with their statutory responsibilities or which would otherwise compromise their objectivity or independence.
During the year, EYs audit fee amounted to 0.5m and EYs non-audit fees were less than 0.1m in total.
The Committee has reviewed its Terms of Reference and composition, and believes that both are appropriate.
Steve Barber Chairman of the Audit Committee 19 March 2015 46 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2
