ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction Effective corporate governance is essential to the long term success of our business.
As Chairman, my role is to manage the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and contains the right balance of skills and experience to successfully execute the strategy.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company and for setting and executing the strategy.
Over many years, NEXT has successfully grown its business and created significant shareholder value against the backdrop of a challenging and changing external environment.
This is the ultimate measure of our success and reflects our strong corporate governance structure and the effective management team we have in place.
We remain committed to the robust approach to governance which has served the business well.
Code compliance Except as noted below under Board composition, the Group complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code copies of which can be downloaded from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
uk and the UK FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
6 with regard to share capital are presented in the Share capital and major shareholders and Additional information sections of the Directors Report.
Board composition and succession During the year there have been a number of Board changes.
The Board currently includes five independent non-executive directors and the Chairman who bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to the Group.
The Board has a good record of recruiting new non-executive directors at regular intervals to achieve appropriate rotation and continuity.
1.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Group complied with this requirement save for a four week period between the retirement of Christine Cross, a nonexecutive director, on 15 May 2014 and the resignation of Christos Angelides, NEXTs Group Product Director, on 10 June 2014.
Mr Angelides resigned to pursue an external career opportunity.
On 1 January 2015 Dame Dianne Thompson was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director.
Her appointment will ensure the continued good balance of skills and experience on the Board after Jonathan Dawson stands down from the Board at the end of the 2015 AGM.
Francis Salway will become Senior Independent Director in place of Mr Dawson, and Caroline Goodall will succeed him as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board considers that all of its non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement, and their knowledge, diversity of experience and other business interests continue to enable them to contribute significantly to the work of the Board.
Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
As announced last year, David Keens will retire as Group Finance Director shortly and Amanda James will be appointed in his place.
Amanda has been with NEXT for 19 years and her appointment continues to demonstrate NEXTs successful history of promoting internal candidates to most senior management and executive Board positions through career development.
The Companys Articles of Association require directors to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years, however the Board has determined that all directors will stand for re-election at each AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
39 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board responsibilities The Board is responsible for major policy decisions whilst delegating more detailed matters to its committees and officers including the Chief Executive.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring implementation of its policies by the Chief Executive.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for it and holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, including significant items of capital expenditure, investments, treasury and dividend policy.
Board papers including reports from the Chief Executive and other executive directors are circulated in advance of each Board meeting.
The Board is responsible for approving semi-annual Group budgets.
Performance against budget is reported to the Board monthly and any substantial variances are explained.
Forecasts for each half year are revised and reviewed monthly.
Certain other important matters are subject to weekly or monthly reporting to the Board or Board Committee, including sales, treasury operations and capital expenditure.
There is a regular flow of written and verbal information between all directors irrespective of the timing of meetings.
All new directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and understanding of the Groups operations.
Individual training needs are reviewed regularly and training is provided where a need is identified or requested.
All directors receive frequent updates on a variety of issues relevant to the Groups business, including regulatory and governance issues.
Meetings of the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present are held at least annually, both with and without the Chairman.
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and facilitating the flow of information within the Board.
The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain of its duties, three of which are detailed below.
Each of these is chaired by a different director and has written terms of reference which are available for inspection on the Companys website www.
Attendance at meetings The Board held ten formal meetings during the year and these were fully attended with the exception that Christine Cross missed two meetings and Dianne Thompson missed one meeting.
The Audit Committee held five meetings which were fully attended.
The Remuneration Committee held nine meetings which were fully attended with the exception that Francis Salway and Christine Cross each missed one meeting.
The Nomination Committee held one meeting which was fully attended.
In advance of the meetings that the directors missed, they reviewed the meeting papers and communicated their comments to the Company Secretary and Chairman who ensured these were considered at the meetings.
40 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc Audit Committee The Committee consists of the current five independent non-executive directors including the senior non-executive director and at least one member Steve Barber, the Committee Chairman with recent and relevant financial experience.
Dame Dianne Thompson was appointed to the Committee in February 2015.
Jonathan Dawson will stand down at the 2015 AGM following which the Committee will consist of four independent non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee Report on page 45 describes the role and activities of the Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Committee consists of the Chairman and currently five independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Jonathan Dawson, who will stand down at the 2015 AGM and will be succeeded by Caroline Goodall.
The Committee determines the remuneration of the executive directors in accordance with the Remuneration Policy and reviews the remuneration of senior management.
Page 64 of the Remuneration Report summarises the role and activities of the Committee.
Nomination Committee The Committee consists of the Chairman and currently five independent non-executive directors Jonathan Dawson will stand down at the 2015 AGM, including the senior non-executive director.
The Committee meets whenever necessary to consider succession planning for directors and other senior executives, to ensure that requisite skills and expertise are available to the Board to address future challenges and opportunities.
External consultants may be used to assist in identifying suitable external Board candidates, based on a written specification for each appointment.
The Chairman is responsible for providing a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the Committee which then makes its recommendation for final approval by the Board.
In seeking a suitable candidate for the recent non-executive vacancy, JCA Group, an external executive search agency, was engaged.
JCA Group has no other connection with the Company.
Appointments to the Board, as with other positions within the Group, are made on merit according to the balance of skills and experience offered by prospective candidates.
Whilst acknowledging the benefits of diversity, individual appointments are made irrespective of personal characteristics such as race, religion or gender.
The number of directors, senior managers and employees by gender is given in the Strategic Report.
Chairman There is a clear division of responsibilities between the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman manages the Board to ensure: that the Group has appropriate objectives and an effective strategy: that there is a high calibre Chief Executive with a team of executive directors able to implement the strategy: that there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives: and that the Group is operating in accordance with a high standard of corporate governance.
The current Chairman became a member of the Board in 2002 and was an independent non-executive director of the Company prior to his appointment as Chairman on 17 May 2006.
His other significant commitments are noted on page 38, and the Board considers that these are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
Chief Executive The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief Executive to achieve.
The Board is responsible for general policy on how these objectives are achieved and delegates the implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is required to report at each Board meeting all material matters affecting the Group and its performance.
41 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management delegation The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day to day management of the business to operational management drawn from executive directors and other senior management who have responsibility for the respective areas.
The most important management meetings are the weekly NEXT Brand trading and capital expenditure meetings which consider the performance and development of the NEXT Brand through its different distribution channels.
These meetings cover risk management of all business areas in respect of the NEXT Brand including product, sales, property, warehousing, systems and personnel.
Key performance indicators are monitored daily and weekly.
Directors conflicts of interest In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a situational conflict, the non-conflicted directors consider the situation in conjunction with their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
They may impose limits or conditions when giving an authorisation or subsequently if considered appropriate.
Any situational conflicts considered by the Board, and any authorisations given, are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts which is reviewed annually by the Board.
Performance evaluation This year an internal board and committee evaluation was completed with the process being facilitated by the Company Secretary.
The senior independent non-executive director appraises the performance of the Chairman through discussions with all the directors individually and, together with the Chairman, appraises the performance of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the executive directors is monitored throughout the year by the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
The Chairman also monitors the performance of the non-executive directors.
An externally facilitated review was carried out in 2012 13 by : this concluded that there were no significant weaknesses or risks that required attention.
The Board intends to conduct the next externally facilitated review during 2015 16 in line with the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that one is conducted every three years.
42 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc Risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management process and has delegated responsibility for its implementation to the Chief Executive and senior management best qualified in each area of the business.
The Board sets guidance on the general level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk and reward.
Risk management and internal control is a continuous process and has been considered by the Board on a regular basis throughout the year.
This includes identifying and evaluating key risks, determining control strategies and considering how they may impact on the achievement of the business objectives.
The Board promotes the development of a strong control culture within the business.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews strategic and operational risk, and has reviewed the key risks described on pages 24 to 26 and the associated controls and mitigating factors.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the Groups system of internal control and risk management including financial, operational, compliance and risk management and considers it to be appropriate and effective.
The risk management process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Board considers that the Groups management structure and continuous monitoring of key performance indicators provide the ability to identify promptly any material areas of concern.
Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of conduct are maintained in respect of specific major risk areas and business processes.
Through these measures the management of business risk is an integral part of Group policy and the Board will continue to develop risk management and internal controls where necessary.
The use of a Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements for finance teams throughout the Group ensures that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and consistently applied.
Information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process and the use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented consistently to facilitate the production of the consolidated financial statements.
Personal use of company assets The Board carried out a review during the year and confirmed that there has been no improper personal use of company assets by directors.
Policies are in place to ensure approval procedures are applied to expense claims and that these are in accordance with service agreements.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the level of benefits in kind provided to executive directors, and considers them to be appropriate.
43 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with shareholders The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect of the Groups business activities through its Annual Report, yearly and half yearly announcements, interim management statements and other regular trading statements.
Full year, interim and other public announcements are presented in a consistent format with a particular focus on making the presentations as meaningful, understandable and comparable as possible.
This information is also made publicly available via the Companys website.
All shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or represent their views to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys largest shareholders are invited to the annual and interim results presentations, at which executive and non-executive directors are present.
Non-executive directors attend other meetings with shareholders if requested.
Shareholder views are also communicated to the Board through the inclusion in Board reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by representative associations.
Whilst the Board recognises that it is primarily accountable to the Companys shareholders, the views of other providers of capital are also considered.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as a whole.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Strategic Report also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in the financial statements.
Information on the Groups financial management objectives, and how derivative instruments are used to hedge its capital, credit and liquidity risks is provided in Note 27 to the financial statements.
The Directors report that, having reviewed current performance and forecasts, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
