Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate governance report Introduction The Board is responsible for, and committed to, ensuring that procedures are in place so that good standards of corporate governance are operated at all levels in the Group in accordance with the guidance and principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website, frc.
The Board, supported by its Committees and the Senior Management team, have in place a governance and control environment which they believe is appropriate for the NMC Group and which they believe are consistent with the standards which would be expected of a FTSE 250 Company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
The Board ensures that governance processes are documented and implemented and, where appropriate, continue to be improved.
The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance against the provisions of the Code and believes that the Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code for the 2015 Financial Year.
This Governance section describes how the Board has applied Corporate Governance principles during the 2015 financial year.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Company operates within a traditional governance framework: CHAIRMAN Board Executive Vice Chairman & Group Company Board Senior Independent CEO and senior management Secretary Committees Non-Executive Director Clinical Governance Nominations Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee The roles and responsibilities of each of the individuals and groups above, and their role in the overall governance framework, are set out below.
THE BOARD THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and: for the long term success of the Company ensuring that it meets its responsibilities towards all stakeholders: demonstrating leadership and focussing on matters that affect shareholder value: determining the strategic direction of the Group: and for ensuring the effectiveness of, and reporting on, the risks facing the Group and the systems of governance and internal control in place in the Group.
The Board seeks at all times to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between short term and long term considerations and objectives of the Group.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Governance Corporate governance report continued Introduction The Board has the powers and duties as set out in the Companys Articles of Association and the relevant regulations applicable to the Company as a public listed company registered in England and Wales.
As part of the terms of their appointment, each director agreed that they will act collectively with the rest of the Board to ensure the success of the Group.
The Company has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board including: approval of strategic plans: approval of major capital projects, acquisitions and divestments: approval of long term financing plans: setting the annual budget: risk management and internal control systems and processes to ensure that the Group is managed appropriately: and approving the half-year and annual results and financial statements.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees, details of which are set out on pages 52 to 59 or to the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO who is responsible for delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE The Board of the Company currently comprises eleven directors, all of whom have served throughout the year: the Non-Executive Chairman who is considered to be Independent two Executive Directors five Independent Non-Executive Directors three Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors In addition, Heather Lawrence was also an Independent Non-Executive Director for the whole of FY2015, but resigned from the Board on 12 January 2016.
The biographies of each of the Directors is set out on pages 44 to 47.
1.1 of the Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor in determining the independence of non-executive directors.
The table below therefore shows how long each Director considered by the Board to be Independent Non-Executive Directors have been members of the Board.
Date of appointment Term in office to 2016 AGM years H. J.
Mark Tompkins 7 March 2012 4 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 26 June 2014 2 Jonathan Bomford 27 June 2013 3 Lord Clanwilliam 7 March 2012 4 Salma Hareb 26 June 2014 2 Dr Nandini Tandon 26 June 2014 2 The other five Directors are either Executive Directors or connected to, or representing, the Companys principal shareholders, and are therefore not independent.
The Board considers that it is independent.
The Senior Independent Director is Jonathan Bomford, who is available to shareholders should they have any concerns that they do not wish to raise with the Company or the Chairman directly.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted through the registered office of the Company.
42 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BOARD DIVERSITY The Board considers that the extensive and diverse business, cultural and operational experience of all the Directors, both Independent and non-Independent, ensures a good balance in all aspects of Group decision making and control.
The above attributes also enable the Board to take account of diverse and independent judgement to bear on key issues of: strategy, including constructively challenging the strategic direction of the Group: scrutinising and challenging the performance of the Group: assessing risk and controls operating within the Group and in its decision making: and standards of conduct and governance and other matters presented to the Board.
Similar practices to ensure a diverse employee base are also operated within the Groups businesses.
These are summarised in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 28 to 36.
Therefore the Board is structured to ensure that: an appropriate cultural and racial mix is in place considering the Companys listing in the UK and its diversified operations, the vast majority of which are in the UAE, as well as global drivers and practice in healthcare related services: the conclusions of the Davis Report on Women on Boards, and in particular the benefits of significant male and female representation on the Board, are taken into account: and the individual skills and experience that Directors bring to the Board are well balanced.
The Board will continue to consider appropriate skills, gender and cultural balance when reviewing future Board appointments.
Board diversity and composition as at the date of this report is as follows: Gender of Board Executive Non-Executive Male 73% Executives 18% Female 27% Non-Exectuives 82% Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Nationality 2 years 67% 4 years 22% UAE 18% Kenyan 9% 3 years 11% UK 27% USA 9% Indian 37% NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Governance Board of Directors MR H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS DR B. R. SHETTY MR PRASANTH MANGHAT NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE VICE-CHAIRMAN & CEO DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Age: 75 Age: 73 Age: 41 Tenure: 4 years Tenure: 5 years Tenure: 2 years Nationality: British Nationality: Indian Nationality: Indian Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Significant public company experience Business Entrepreneur 20 years experience in accounting, on UK, US and French listed company Founder, Director and principal corporate finance, treasury and Boards shareholder of NMC Health banking, including 12 years in NMC Experience in investment banking, Pioneer in the development of the related businesses international real estate and the private healthcare sector in the UAE 2015 Deputy Chief Executive Officer financing of small and medium sized Other Board positions and material of NMC Health assisting the Executive enterprises investments in financial, hospitality, Vice Chairman and CEO on planning, 2005-2009 Director of Allied Healthcare food and beverage, pharmaceuticals strategy and M&A across Group International and Chairman from 2007 and real estate sectors businesses to 2009 2011-2014 Chief Financial Officer of NMC 2002-2010 Non-Executive Director of Other Current Appointments Health Sodexo S. A.
Director and principal shareholder of Spearheaded NMCs successful IPO 2010-2012 Conseiller Special aupres du UAE Exchange and Travelex on the London Stock Exchange in Conseil DAdministration of Sodexo S. A.
Member of the Advisory Board of the April 2012 Previously, Chief Executive Officer of Dubai Economic Departments Chartered Accountant qualified in India Compagnie Financiere Haussmann Financial Sector CFO of the Year award 2012 by ICAEW, Previously a Director of Apria Chairman of the Abu Dhabi Indian Middle-East Healthcare Inc School Member of the Executive Panel of Other Current Appointments Other Current Appointments Dubais Pharmaceutical and Health None None Equipment Trading Business Group under the Dubai Chamber of Board Committees Board Committees Commerce and Industry None Nominations Committee Chairman Founder and patron of the Indian Pharmaceutical Association in the UAE Founder and member of various Business Councils in the UAE Board Committees None 44 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DR AYESHA ABDULLAH MR ABDULRAHMAN MR JONATHAN BOMFORD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT BASADDIQ NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 49 Age: 67 Age: 67 Tenure: 2 years Tenure: 3 years Tenure: 2 years Nationality: Emirati Nationality: British Nationality: Kenyan Skills and Experience Significant experience in development Skills and Experience Skills and Experience and regulation of the healthcare Accounting, financial and audit Significant business experience across industry in the UAE experience gained principally in the a number of business sectors in the Oversaw development of, and then Middle East and East Africa Middle East regulatory aspects of, Dubai Healthcare UK qualified Chartered Accountant Previously 25 years with EY in the UK City DHCC Previously with EY Middle East, East and GCC, including 15 years as an Previously, CEO of Dubai Healthcare Africa, Abu Dhabi & Riyadh for 24 years equity partner City DHCC 15 years as a partner Previously Managing Partner of Riyadh Previously, Managing Director of the EY clients included international clients and Abu Dhabi EY offices Science Cluster across healthcare, oil, banking and Since leaving EY, worked with a Previously, Chief Executive Officer at construction sectors number of GCC based Groups the Center for Healthcare Planning and operating in multiple jurisdictions and Quality CPQ Other Current Appointments business sectors, including two major Board Member of an Agricultural Trust listed Groups Other Current Appointments funding UK agricultural projects UK qualified Chartered Accountant and Executive Dean of Health Sciences Independent Non-Executive Director licensed auditor in the UAE and Business at Higher College of of Travelex Technology Dubai Official Mentor providing business Other Current Appointments CEO of CERT Group of Companies advice and services to clients of the Non-Executive Director Travelex, Princes Trust Chair of the Audit Committee and Board Committees a member of the Remunerations Clinical Governance Chair and Audit Board Committees Committee Committees Audit Committee Chairman and Non-Executive Director Abu Dhabi Remuneration Committee National Hotel Compass LLC, Chair of Audit & Remunerations Committees Non-Executive Director One Financial Markets, Chair of the Audit Committee Non-Executive Director UAE Exchange, Chair of the Audit Committee Board Committees Remuneration and Nominations Committees NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Governance Board of Directors continued LORD CLANWILLIAM MRS SALMA ALI SAID BIN MR KEYUR NAGORI INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR HAREB ALMHEIRI INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 55 Age: 37 Age: 50 Tenure: 4 years Tenure: 2 years Tenure: 2 years Nationality: British Nationality: Indian Nationality: Emirati Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Government and financial 9 years of experience in international Skills and Experience communications specialist audit firms including Deloitte and Significant business experience and Extensive network of governmental KPMG a recognised leading businesswoman and institutional contacts across Audit of multinational companies in the Middle East Middle East, UK and Eastern Europe based in both India and Abu Dhabi CEO of Economic Zones World EZW Founding Partner and Chairman of 10 years experience at KBBO Group and Jebel Ali Free Zone Jafza from Meade Hall Communications Limited 2005 to 2015 Non-Executive Director of Polyus Gold Other Current Appointments Instrumental in creation of Dubai OJSC 2007 to 2013 Chief Financial Officer, KBBO Group Logistics Corridor Chairman of Eurasia Drilling Company Oversaw EZWs expansion with 2007 to 2016 Board Committees development of international None logistics parks in UAE, Europe, India, Other Current Appointments USA and Africa Non-Executive Director of Soma Oil Chief Haematologist in the and Gas Department of Health and Medical Services from 1987 to 1997 Board Committees Remuneration Chairman and Other Current Appointments Nominations Committees None Board Committees Remuneration Committee 46 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements MR BINAY SHETTY DR NANDINI TANDON NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 32 Age: 53 Tenure: 2 years Tenure: 2 years Nationality: Indian Nationality: USA Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Operations and strategic experience Investment and Board experience in within a number of organisations healthcare and healthcare IT sectors 2010 to 2014 Chief Operating Officer, Director and investment in numerous NMC Group high tech companies in the USA 2004 to 2010 Executive Director of NMC Delegate and speaker on a number responsible for strategic planning of high level global investment and 2004 to 2006 Business Coordinator, governmental and investor summits NeoPharma and programs Investing in next generation education Other Current Appointments and healthcare and in renewable Director of UAE Exchange and Travelex energy Head of Shetty Family Investment In January 2015 received the Pravasi office Bharatiya Samman award for her work in life sciences and Healthcare and IT Board Committees in USA and India along with other Clinical Governance Committee emerging markets In January 2016 received the Uttar Pradesh Ratna Gem award, the highest state award for non-resident Indians, for outstanding contribution to humanity and the society at large Other Current Appointments Board of Trustees, Bay Area Council Economic Institute Board Member, SFBangalore Sister City Initiative Board Member TeleVital Real Time Telemedicine Board Committees Audit and Clinical Governance Committees NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Governance Senior Management Team DR B. R. SHETTY MR PRASANTH MANGHAT DR CHANDRAKUMARI R. EXECUTIVE VICE-CHAIRMAN & CEO DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SHETTY GROUP MEDICAL DIRECTOR Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Business Entrepreneur 20 years experience in accounting, Skills and Experience Founder, Director and principal corporate finance, treasury and Over 40 years experience with NMC shareholder of NMC Health banking, including 12 years in NMC Health and a pioneer in developing the Pioneer in the development of the related businesses private healthcare sector in the UAE private healthcare sector in the UAE 2015 Deputy Chief Executive Officer Instrumental in establishing Centres Other Board positions and material of NMC Health assisting the Executive of Excellence in various NMC facilities investments in financial, hospitality, Vice Chairman and CEO on planning, Chairs a number of NMC business food and beverage, pharmaceuticals strategy and M&A across Group committees covering Governance, and real estate sectors businesses Infection Control, Patient Rights, 2011-2014 Chief Financial Officer of Quality and Facility Management NMC Health Supervises NMC Healthcares Spearheaded NMCs successful IPO on diversified multi-cultural workforce.
the London Stock Exchange in April 2012 Chartered Accountant qualified in India CFO of the Year award 2012 by ICAEW, Middle-East.
Over 40 years experience with NMC Health and a pioneer in developing the private healthcare sector in the UAE 48 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements MR ROY CHERRY MR SURESH MR SIMON WATKINS HEAD OF STRATEGY & INVESTOR GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY KRISHNAMOORTHY RELATIONS CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Joined NMC in May 2012 shortly Skills and Experience 13 years experience in financial after the Groups IPO Appointed as CFO in January 2015 services and healthcare Responsible for Groups listing and heads up NMCs finance teams Assists Executive Vice Chairman and obligations and all governance Joined NMC in December 2000 and CEO and Deputy CEO in relation to NMC matters, assisting the Chairman with held a number of senior finance roles strategic matters ensuring effective and appropriate in the Group Leads Groups IR and played an Board processes Has had significant involvement in instrumental role in the re-rating of Over 25 years of experience as the Companys IPO in April 2012 and NMCs shares a Company Secretary in large and subsequent fund raising initiatives Formerly a Senior Consultant at PwC medium sized UK public companies Prior to joining NMC, worked as Transaction Services providing advice across a number of sectors Assistant Finance Manager in Kerala on transactions across several sectors Significant experience within Industrial Infrastructure Corporation including healthcare Groups focussed on strategic and in India Contributed to several regional IPOs acquisitive growth Qualified as a Chartered Accountant including Saudi Catering, NMC Health, Previous experience includes Deputy in India in 1998 Deyaar, DP World and Royal Jordanian Company Secretary of Rank Group plc Airlines and Group Company Secretary of Previously headed the Equity Research lastminute.
com Departments at SHUAA Capital in Dubai Qualified as a Chartered Secretary and Saudi Fransi Capital in Riyadh in the UK in 1987 Holds a BSc in Management from University of London and speaks English, Arabic and Swedish fluently NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Governance Corporate governance report KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
CHAIRMAN The Chairman was appointed to the Board in March 2012 in anticipation of the Companys IPO.
He was independent at the time of his appointment and is considered to be independent by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the proper functioning of the Companys Board of directors including: the effective operation and governance of the Board setting the agenda and coordinating the style and tone of Board discussions EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is responsible for identifying, with the Senior Management Team, opportunities that are deemed appropriate and in line with the Boards strategic objectives.
He is also responsible for delivering the key strategic objectives set by the Board.
The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is assisted in this task by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the remainder of the Senior Management Team who meet regularly to discuss the performance of the business, the progress of key capital projects, new development opportunities as well as other material matters arising within the business.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors as required.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not managed to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or who feel that such contact is inappropriate for the concerns that they may have.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the Board Committees.
He assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and in organising induction programmes for new Directors.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The biography of each individual holding the above positions is set out on pages 44 to 49.
BOARD MEETINGS The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in finalising an agenda for each Board meeting and ensuring that appropriate papers are provided from the management team in a timely manner for circulation in advance of Board and Board Committee meetings.
This is to ensure that fully informed decisions can be reached.
BOARD FOCUS IN 2015 Matters considered at all Board Meetings include: Operational performance through the Executive Vice Chairman & Chief Executive Officers report Financial performance, including monitoring current and forecast trading, cash and debt levels against its expectations presented through the CFO report Progress being made on the Groups key capital development projects and other potential acquisition or organic growth opportunities Board Committee updates During the course of the 2015 financial year the Board has also considered, as appropriate: The Groups future strategy with significant focus on potential organic and inorganic growth opportunities and the associated risks of such strategy and opportunities Long term acquisition and working capital financing The Groups half-year and full-year results The proposed operating budget for the following financial year The Groups business and strategic risks, the risk management process in place in the Group and the Groups approach to risk BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE IN THE 2015 FINANCIAL YEAR During the period under review, the Board met on six occasions as scheduled as well as three other brief ad-hoc meetings normally called at very short notice on matters requiring board approval or other discussions on matters which arose.
During 2015, these ad-hoc meetings were principally in relation to acquisitions or long term finance related discussions and approvals.
Scheduled periodic Board Meetings are planned in each financial year to be split, where possible, evenly between London and Abu Dhabi.
50 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The attendance of the Directors at each of the scheduled Board meetings during the period is set out in the table below.
Whilst the ad-hoc meetings held are classified as formal meetings, given their brief nature and the fact that they were called at very short notice, the attendance table excludes such meetings.
Mark Tompkins 6 6 Dr B. R. Shetty 6 6 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 6 6 Abdulrahman Basaddiq 6 6 Jonathan Bomford 6 6 Lord Clanwilliam 6 6 Salma Hareb 6 6 Heather Lawrence 6 6 Prasanth Manghat 6 6 Keyur Nagori 5 6 Binay Shetty 6 6 Dr Nandini Tandon 6 6 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS DIRECTOR INDUCTION On appointment, directors have the benefit of a personalised induction programme which is undertaken during the first few months of their tenure as a director.
Each induction programme covers a number of different areas including: briefings and presentations from management to understand the business operations and financial drivers their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors and the governance environment in which the Company operates opportunities to visit the Groups key facilities and new capital development project locations meetings with the Companys key advisors BOARD INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst themselves and with senior management, which ensures that NonExecutive Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
Following an initial induction process, Non-Executive Directors meet with management and undertake visits to operational facilities each year in order to further understand the way the business operates and any change within the business.
Emphasis in 2015 in relation to organised facility visits has been on monitoring progress in relation to the Companys key capital projects, particularly our new Khalifa City facility, and a visit to ProVita, the long term acute care business acquired during the year.
The Board also had presentations from management during the year in relation to the Groups acquisition strategy and a presentation from PwC and management in relation to the strategic risks considered to be prevalent from their risk reviews within the businesses.
As part of their overall training and development needs, some non-executive directors have attended externally provided seminars and discussion forums relating to their general responsibilities as Directors or areas of specific responsibility, in particular in relation to the Board Committees on which they serve.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year the Board undertook its first evaluation of its own performance.
This was undertaken by way of a questionnaire developed internally by the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary which asked Directors to assess the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the Board and Board committee processes.
The questionnaire included questions in relation to the suitability of the Boards discussions and whether the Directors felt able to be candid or raise matters of concern.
The evaluation questionnaire was completed confidentially by Directors and the results consolidated into a report by the Group Company Secretary which was then reviewed by the Chairman and reported to the Board.
No material action items arose from the review.
The Boards intention is to undertake a Board evaluation each year and to conduct an externally facilitated performance appraisal every three years in compliance with the Code, with the first external appraisal therefore being conducted during the 2017 financial year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD EFFECTIVENESS continued RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All of the directors of the Company submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 3 June 2016.
Each resolution for re-election or election of a retiring director will be proposed as a separate resolution.
The Board performance appraisal undertaken during the year has satisfied the Board that the contribution made by each director, and the Board as a whole, to board deliberations continues to be effective and that the shareholders of the Company should support their re-election.
OTHER BOARD DISCLOSURES CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board are aware of the interest that some Directors have in other businesses in which they have invested.
Any conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise are monitored by: A list of other relevant interests of each Director being circulated to the Board at each of its Board Meetings: Each of the Directors are asked to confirm that they have no other interests which would conflict them for the purposes of any item to be discussed at the meeting: where such conflict is reported, the respective Director is not permitted to take part in the consideration of that matter by the Board: Each Director discloses to the Board any related party transactions in which they are connected, and such transactions are reported in the Groups financial statements.
Whilst Directors on the Board have other business interests, the Board do not consider that these, nor the time commitment that they require, affect the ability of such Directors to undertake their role or comply with their statutory obligations.
INDEPENDENT ADVICE Each of the directors is permitted to obtain independent legal advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
This would normally be managed through the Group Company Secretary.
All directors, and the Board as a whole, also have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who, under the Chairmans direction, is responsible for ensuring that good Board procedures are followed.
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS The Company has put in place a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy which provides all Board members with insurance cover in respect of liabilities that may arise against the Directors collectively or individually.
The Directors do not benefit from any form of qualifying third party indemnities made by the Company.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Clinical Governance Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference for each committee clearly set out its authority and duties and have been approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each committee are available on our website at www.
com or available from the Group Company Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Overview provided by the Chair of the Audit Committee This is my third Audit Committee report since my appointment as Audit Committee Chairman in June 2013.
The 2015 financial year has been another busy year for the Audit Committee.
As UK listed company reporting and governance requirements continue to evolve, I am pleased to report that both management and the audit committee have been committed to ensuring that they have a good understanding of new requirements as they arise.
This report sets out the work of the Committee, significant matters addressed by the Committee during the year and the responsibilities of, and work undertaken by, the external and internal auditors.
In addition, the Board asks the Audit Committee to review various matters in relation to risk and internal control which, during a year of significant strategic activity and acquisitions, is a significant aspect of the Board and Audit Committee focus.
52 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Membership and attendance The Audit Committee has consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the year under review.
Following Heather Lawrences decision to step down from the Board, Dr Nandini Tandon was appointed to serve on the Committee.
I would like to thank Heather Lawrence for her contribution to Audit Committee deliberations over the last three years.
The Audit Committee members who have served during the year are: Audit Committee Member Position Period of membership during 2015 Jonathan Bomford Audit Committee Chairman and Member and Chairman of Audit Committee throughout financial expert the year Dr Ayesha Abdullah Independent Non-Executive Director Member of Audit Committee throughout the year Dr Nandini Tandon Independent Non-Executive Director Member of Audit Committee since 18 October 2015 Heather Lawrence Independent Non-Executive Director Member of Audit Committee until 18 October 2015 During the 2015 financial year, the Chairman of the Committee and the Committees financial expert is Mr Jonathan Bomford.
Mr Bomford is a Chartered Accountant and his brief biographical details and experience are set out on page 45 of the annual report.
The Audit Committee met formally five times during the year.
The Meetings are scheduled to align with the Groups reporting timetable with planning meetings in advance of both the half-year review and full-year audit, and approving meetings shortly in advance of the announcement of the Groups half-year and full-year results.
Audit committee attendance 5 Jonathan Bomford 5 5 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 5 4 Heather Lawrence 4 1 Dr Nandini Tandon 1 Scheduled Meetings Attended Meetings Meetings are normally attended by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman and some other Non-Executive Directors also attend meetings.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also meets separately with the external auditors, the internal auditors and management with the other parties not present.
Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to ensure that the integrity of published financial information by the Company, and the effectiveness of both external and internal audit processes, are appropriate to ensure that the interests of all shareholders are protected.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in: discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and controls: reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, Annual Report and audited financial statements: monitoring the independence and extent of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and the level of their remuneration: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities and internal policies: overseeing the Groups compliance processes: and oversight of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems although the Board retains control over these matters.
The Audit Committee is required to report regularly to the Board of Directors in relation to its findings on the above and the discussions at each meeting.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements and the half yearly reports remains with the Directors of the Company.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD COMMITTEES continued Main activities of the Committee during the year During the year, the Committee has focussed significantly on areas of acquisition accounting, corporate governance and management of risk.
In addition to the main activities on which the Committee focuses each year, being the Committees consideration, and approval, of the Interim Results and the Annual Report, specific items which the Audit Committee discussed during the year included: Accounting for major acquisitions.
There are a number of aspects in relation to the Groups acquisition strategy which had an impact on accounting and audit matters during 2015.
These included accounting in relation to the new long term financing facility, various aspects of each acquisition, including accounting for goodwill, judgements in respect of contingent consideration, work on the purchase price allocation including the identification of intangible fixed assets, assessing the accounting policies within each business for consistency with NMC accounting policies and also evaluating the internal control environment in the acquired businesses.
These and related matters took up significant audit committee time during the year.
The Committee also re-visited and discussed the accounting treatment of consultancy services provided by the Group to both Americare and Dr Sunny Healthcare before the acquisition of those entities.
This resulted in consultancy services recorded as revenue in the 2015 Half Year Results being adjusted from purchase consideration in relation to each acquisition.
Further details in relation to this issue are set out in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117 to 122. Review of risk assessment for 2015 audit The areas of significant risk which the auditors consider to be key for their audit focus, is an important and increasing area of Audit Committee deliberations.
Whilst the auditors determine the areas of significant risk when assessing their audit program, the relevance to the audit committee is to ensure that the auditors have, what the committee believe, is the correct focus during their audit for the benefit of both the Company and its shareholders.
A number of useful discussions were held in relation to audit focus, particularly given the acquisitive nature of the Group in 2015.
Governance requirements The various levels of Governance requirements facing UK Premium listed companies is ever growing.
Focus for the Committee during the year has been the new requirements for a long term viability statement.
Whilst the Board has always considered the longer term financial position of the Group, particularly in consideration of its growth strategy, the formality of additional review required, and the parameters of that review, has been a focus for the committee.
The Committee has also reviewed feedback included in the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection reports 2014 15.
Principal Internal Audit Reports are presented at Committee meetings twice a year with other updates from the Internal Auditors as required.
During 2015, the internal audit plan has again been focused on areas considered to be key and strategic risks to ensure that these are closely and independently monitored.
In addition to their core internal audit program, the Internal Audit remit was also expanded to carry out a review across aspects of the controls within the UAE acquired businesses and to review work carried out in relation to the implementation of the greenhouse gas data reporting within the businesses.
Revenue recognition The Group has a number of revenue streams across both its Healthcare and Distribution divisions.
In addition, given the significant number of acquisitions undertaken by the Group in 2015, there are a number of areas within both divisions where the recognition of revenue has been reviewed to ensure that the correct treatment of principal versus agency revenue has been adopted in all business areas.
There is a risk that incorrect accounting treatment could be adopted within a particular business unit, for example agency revenue being treated as principal revenue.
Any error of this nature would affect the Revenue and not the EBITDA of the Group.
The Committee has reviewed the different treatment adopted by management in each relevant business unit and is comfortable with the accounting for revenue across the Group.
Other considerations and activities of the Committee Internal control The Committee has reviewed the process by which the Group evaluates its control environment across all of its businesses.
The Chief Financial Officer provides a report to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls and confirms to the Committee whether or not he is aware of any significant fraud that may have occurred within the business.
The internal auditors also undertake a review across a wide range of control areas to give the Audit Committee and the Board assurance on the internal control environment.
Risk management The Committee oversaw a management project in Q4, 2014 and Q1, 2015 to implement an enhanced risk management program.
This risk register and the risk management process will normally be kept under specific review by the Audit Committee, although in 2015 the Board received primary strategic risk presentations as part of their discussions.
Further information in relation to the risk management process is set out on pages 37 to 39.
54 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Internal audit A review of the work undertaken by the Groups internal auditors is an agenda item for the majority of Audit Committee meetings.
The internal auditors report to the Committee their findings together with action plans to resolve any matters which they believe require to be addressed.
Action plans are graded with key high risk matters taking priority to be resolved.
External audit and auditor independence The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the external audit is dependent on the identification of key risks during the financial year under review.
EY produces and discusses with the Committee a detailed audit plan identifying these key risks, the focus of audit procedures and the work to be done to test managements assumptions and accounting treatment in these areas.
The Committee meets separately with the External Auditors to ensure that an independent dialogue is maintained in relation to monitoring key business and financial risks and to ensure that management have not restricted the scope of their audit.
The Audit Committee Chairman also meets with the lead audit partner on a number of occasions during the year outside the formality of Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee discusses separately with management matters arising from the audit process and also to assess their view of the effectiveness of the audit work being undertaken.
The Committee did not undertake a formal review of the effectiveness of the external audit during the year although the Audit Committee and the external auditors discussed the FY2014 audit process in detail, including matters which had worked well and areas of improvement in the audit process for FY2015.
Auditor fees and appointment EY were appointed as auditor to the Company at the time of the Companys IPO in April 2012.
The level of audit fees paid in relation to the 2015 financial year is set out in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-Audit fees During FY2015, the level of non-audit fees, excluding the fees for the half-year review, amounted to a total of US$0.13m.
The Audit Committee has adopted a non-audit fees policy whereby it will only permit such fees in circumstances where they feel that use of the auditor firm is necessary, appropriate or efficient, and has delegated authority to the CFO to agree such projects subject to a strict cap on fees in relation to each financial year.
Auditor Independence The Audit Committee formally reviewed the independence of the Companys auditor, EY, during the period under review.
The review took account of the relationship between management and the audit team, the processes that EY have in place internally to ensure objectivity and independence and also the level of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
As part of this review the Committee reviewed the potential threats to auditor independence as a result of: auditor self-interests, being those areas where the auditor may have a financial or other interest in the Company: auditor self-review, being areas where the results of non-audit services are reflected in the amounts included or disclosed in the financial statements: management threats, which may occur if partners or employees of the auditor take decision on behalf of management: and other threats, such as familiarity and intimidation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that in all areas sufficient safeguards were adopted by the auditor and that the independence of EY and of the audit engagement partner had not been compromised.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of the Auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements.
The Company has not yet completed five financial years since incorporation, and therefore to date has not been required to comply with any provisions of the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order.
JONATHAN BOMFORD, FCA On behalf of the Audit Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD COMMITTEES continued CLINICAL GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Overview provided by the Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee This my first report to you as the new Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee.
I would like to thank the previous Chair of the Committee, Heather Lawrence, for her work in chairing the committee since its inception in 2013.
The Committee has made good progress under her guidance and it intends to further this development as the Group grows as a result of its strategic acquisition program.
The Clinical Governance Committee meets regularly to provide Board oversight in the key area of Clinical Governance.
The Committee works with management to ensure that the governance structure within the healthcare business is appropriate to ensure that clinical care is enhanced and that clinical quality indicators are monitored and maintained at a high standard.
This oversight is designed to mitigate as far as possible the risks associated with operating a healthcare organisation.
Good progress has again been made during a very busy year with the majority of key clinical care indicators remaining at a strong level or improving.
A wide range of clinical care indicators are being monitored and a governance structure is now in place in each of the Groups new healthcare facilities.
Membership and attendance As well as my appointment as Chair of the Committee, the Committee has also been slightly restructured.
The Committee consists of a majority of Non-Executive Directors and also now includes Dr C R Shetty, the Group Medical Director.
Her experience of governance structures operating in the Group, and the standards by which the Healthcare businesses are monitored, is very important to the Committees ongoing monitoring of clinical care.
The Clinical Governance Committee members who have served during the year are: Clinical Governance Committee Member Position Period of membership during 2015 Dr Ayesha Independent Non-Executive Member of Clinical Governance Committee for the full financial year and Abdullah Director and Clinical Chair of the Committee since 18 October 2015 Governance Committee Chair Heather Clinical Governance Member and Chair of Clinical Governance Committee until 18 October 2015 Lawrence Committee Chair Binay Shetty Non-Executive Director Member of Clinical Governance Committee for the full financial year Dr C R Shetty Group Medical Director Member of Clinical Governance Committee since 18 October 2015 Dr Nandini Independent Member of Clinical Governance Committee for the full financial year Tandon Non-Executive Director The Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee is also a member of the Audit Committee which assists in ensuring that the two committees interact providing an overall control and governance framework to manage the Groups key clinical risks.
Meetings of the Committee are scheduled three times per financial year.
In addition to the Clinical Governance Committee members, the Vice President Quality and Standards attends each meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Clinical Governance Committee attendance 3 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 3 1 Heather Lawrence 1 2 Dr C R Shetty 2 Binay Shetty 3 3 3 Dr Nandini Tandon 3 Scheduled Meetings Attended Meetings 56 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key role and responsibilities The establishment of the Clinical Governance Committee was undertaken as a result of an appreciation of the clinical risks faced by the Group.
The key role of the Committee is to oversee governance structures, processes and controls in relation to Clinical matters in place within the Group healthcare operations.
This is to ensure that the risks associated with clinical care are mitigated in the interests of the Company and its stakeholders, including shareholders.
As a result the Committee is a key aspect of the Groups internal control environment.
Main activities of the Committee during the year Specific responsibilities of the Committee, and work undertaken by it during the year, include: Ensuring processes and controls are in place across the NMC Healthcare hospitals to promote safety and excellence in patient care and manage risks arising from clinical care on a continuing basis: Review the systems of clinical governance, monitoring that they operate effectively and that action is being taken to address any areas of concern: Review clinical performance indicators quarterly: Reviewing the KPI monitoring put in place in the Groups new healthcare facilities, Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital and NMC General Hospital in DIP, to ensure that standards are maintained during their ramp-up phase: Reviewing the implications of new regulations and standards compliance implemented by our local health authority regulators: Initial reporting from Clinica Eugin, which was acquired by the Group during the year: Reviewing patient satisfaction data across all facilities: Specific review of the process undertaken when patients are transferred between our facilities and other medical facilities and institutions: and Discussion in relation to the use and benefits IT systems for all aspects of patient care and information monitoring.
Principal Management activities on clinical governance matters during the year 2015 has been a very busy year for management in relation to quality and clinical governance matters.
In addition to new regulations and standards implemented by our regulators during the year to ensure that quality provided by UAE healthcare providers continues to be enhanced, two of the Groups primary facilities, Dubai and Al Ain Specialty Hospitals, completed their triennial JCI re-accreditation during the year with excellent results.
Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in Umm Al Quwain, which is managed by NMC, achieved JCI accreditation in June 2015.
In addition, work has commenced to prepare for JCI accreditation surveys in both NMC General Hospital, DIP and Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital during 2016.
The triennial re-accreditation of Abu Dhabi Specialty Hospital is also due to take place in Q2, 2016.
In addition to the increasing size of the Group, and the continued monitoring program across the Groups facilities, the regulatory and standards workload has been significant.
The Committee is delighted with the dedication and determination of management and all of our employees to keep up to date with regulatory changes and new standards ensuring that the Group is well positioned in its compliance with its requirements as well as offering an excellent and safe service to our patients.
The Quality and Clinical teams also continue their excellent work ensuring that clinical care monitoring within the business has been further enhanced which gives assurance to management and the Board that clinical risk is mitigated.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their contribution during the year.
DR AYESHA ABDULLAH For and on behalf of the Clinical Governance Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD COMMITTEES continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Membership and attendance The Remuneration Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, three of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, with an Independent Non-Executive Director holding the chairmanship of the Committee.
During the 2015 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: Lord Clanwilliam Committee members: Abdulrahman Basaddiq Jonathan Bomford Salma Hareb The Chairman of the Company is invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings.
The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer do attend some Remuneration Committee meetings and the Chairman of the Committee discusses proposed remuneration policies with them during their formulation.
No Director is present when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee and provides advice to the Committee on Corporate Governance aspects relating to remuneration matters.
He also provides assistance to the Chairman of the Committee as required in discussions with the Remuneration Committee advisers and on implementation of Committee decisions.
The Group Company Secretary is not present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee met three times during the financial year.
Remuneration Committee attendance 3 Lord Clanwilliam 3 3 Abdulrahman Basaddiq 3 3 Jonathan Bomford 3 Salma Hareb 3 3 Scheduled Meetings Attended Meetings Key role and responsibilities The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in: making recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration, including the use of incentive arrangements within that framework: and determining, on the Board's behalf, the entire individual remuneration packages for each Executive Director and advising the Chief Executive Officer in relation to the level of remuneration the Committee feel is appropriate for the Senior Management Team.
All other recommendations must be referred to the Board for approval.
No Committee member is permitted to participate in any discussion or decision regarding his her own remuneration.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for consideration by the Chairman of the Company, assisted by the Remuneration Committee Chairman, and the Executive Directors.
Main activities of the Committee during the year The principal activities of the Committee during 2015 are set out in the Directors Remuneration report on page 65 to 83.
The Directors Policy and Remuneration Reports are set out on pages 65 to 83.
58 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Nominations Committee consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom holds the chairmanship of the Committee.
During the 2015 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: H. J.
Mark Tompkins Committee members: Abdulrahman Basaddiq Lord Clanwilliam The Nominations Committee has a role to assist the Board in: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to its structure, size and composition: reviewing succession planning in place for senior management: determining the appropriate skills and characteristics required of directors: identifying individuals qualified to become Board members and recommending such individuals to the Board: recommending individuals to be considered for election as Directors at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or to fill vacancies: and preparing a description of the experience and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment.
Following the significant changes to the Board and work undertaken on the Senior Management Team structure in 2014, the Committee only met once during the year to discuss the new job title given to Dr B. R. Shetty which more reflects the wider strategic and visionary role which he undertakes.
All Committee members were present at this meeting.
Other than in relation to specific matters which the Nominations Committee will be required to discuss, it is expected that the Nominations Committee would normally meet at least once in each financial year, or otherwise as requested by any member of the Committee.
The Committee would expect to meet to consider appropriate candidates to fill any vacancy created on the Board should such a vacancy arise or be considered appropriate given other skills and experience on the Board.
The duties and activities of the Committee during the year are disclosed in the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements each year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK OVERVIEW Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and operational matters across the Group.
The Board is responsible for reviewing such internal controls and for ensuring that they are effective to properly manage the Groups businesses.
STRENGTHENING OF INTERNAL CONTROLS In recent years, as the Group has progressed an organic and inorganic growth strategy, in order to strengthen the governance and control structure further across the Group, management have progressively been: incorporating additional key internal controls into its financial and operational processes: implementing new policies and procedures covering all aspects of the Groups accounting policies and controls: extending its Quality Team and the Groups Quality and Clinical Governance processes: enhancing the Groups Internal Audit function which independently reviews and monitors key business processes: and developing new financial and hospital management IT systems.
All of these changes are part of an overall process to improve the Governance structure within the Group and to improve further the Groups formal internal control processes.
CHALLENGES Acquired businesses The businesses which we have acquired in 2015 all operated under differing levels of control.
Similar to the NMC Group prior to preparation for its IPO in 2012, some of these businesses have a very centralised approach to control, with the majority of the controls over all financial and operational aspects of each business resting with a small number of individuals and, in some of the businesses, being manual in nature.
We consider this to be a normal environment in which private family owned businesses have been used to operating.
IT environment Management recognise that the Groups IT systems are not fully integrated and that an element of manual control procedures are still prevalent across the Group.
Whilst this is still the case, the manual processes, supported by legacy IT systems in many of the Groups businesses, have provided a robust level of controls for a number of years.
PRINCIPAL RISKS In Q4, 2014 management reviewed its approach to the monitoring and control of risks within the Group and implemented an enhanced risk management program.
The various layers of corporate, healthcare and distribution division management were involved in a program under which the Groups key risks were developed through a bottom up process and then reviewed alongside the macro-economic environment within which the Group operates through a top down review process to establish a Strategic Risk Register.
This Strategic Risk Register is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Further details on the approach taken to assess risks, and of the Groups strategic risks, are set out on pages 37 to 39.
The boards appetite for risk, the internal controls and processes in place to mitigate business risks and the Boards review of the effectiveness of the control environment are set out below.
CONTROLS AND RISK MITIGATION Financial and operational controls The Group has, for over 40 years, grown into a substantial business and a leader in the provision of private healthcare, as well as operating a substantial distribution business, in the United Arab Emirates.
The Group is a regulated business operating many regulatory, financial, clinical and quality control procedures.
The key elements of the Groups internal controls are as follows: An annual budget and updated long-term forecasts for the Group that identifies risks and opportunities which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
As part of these processes, management and the Board have processes in place to review appropriate risks faced by the Group and also a formal viability review which considers the Group long term viability.
As part of the annual budget process, budgetary goals are set by the corporate office and these goals are monitored on an ongoing basis within each subsidiary by their accounting and finance teams.
MIS teams monitor business performance.
Within each subsidiary, these teams provide relevant analyses to operational management which assists in prudent decision making.
Such information is also periodically reported to, and consolidated by, the corporate office teams, which analyses consolidated performance against budget.
Monthly meetings at which the Senior Management Team review Group financial and operational performance, progress on capital projects and other principal functional areas of the business.
60 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A system of internal monthly operational and financial reporting which includes monthly comparison of results and against budget and forecast, a review of KPIs, each discussed with additional management commentary and the reporting of key matters arising within the business during the month under review.
The Group has a very flat organisational hierarchy resulting in an easy flow of information throughout the organisational structure.
Communication of exceptional items happens naturally.
A defined process for controlling capital expenditure, including appropriate authorisation levels, which is monitored and approved by the Board as appropriate.
The financial statements of each subsidiary are drawn up by relevant accounting departments, which ensure compliance with local tax and regulatory requirements.
These subsidiary company financial statements are subjected to a limited review for the Groups interim financial statements and a complete audit carried out by the auditors for all the subsidiaries for the Groups year-end financial statements.
Reporting of accounting information, in standardised monthly reports, is carried out on the basis of a schedule established by the Corporate Accounts department.
Each subsidiary applies Group procedures for the recording of accounting data for inclusion in the interim and annual financial statements.
The reporting of subsidiaries is established according to the accounting policies of the Group, which are formalized in a Group policies manual given to all the subsidiaries.
A formal process through which approval for organic and inorganic expansion projects is given.
A formal transaction request paper is produced including details of the proposed transaction, how the transaction will be financed, market studies, strategic benefits and longer term effects on the Group, due diligence and key transaction risks are considered.
Medical Directors meetings to monitor clinical governance procedures.
The production of quarterly and annual Quality reports.
An appropriate approach to decentralisation and internal oversight within the Group.
Each NMC healthcare facility has a Medical Director and Head of Administration who are accountable for the operation of the facility.
In relation to facilities acquired through the Companys acquisition program, these are generally smaller facilities and therefore managed by the lead clinician.
This structure ensures that both our larger and smaller facilities have an appropriate organisation to provide effective and efficient management of both clinical and non-clinical areas.
Within the Healthcare division structure, a number of multidisciplinary committees are in place to monitor guidelines in respect of patient safety and quality, medication management, infection prevention and control, medical record documentation and facility management.
Both Healthcare and Distribution divisions have Financial Controllers and a finance team and are managed through fundamental activities of planning, executing and checking.
The strategic direction of all operations is governed by the corporate office.
With the exception of certain operations in some of the acquired businesses, which are in the process of being integrated into group procedures, all banking, treasury, procurement and payment processing is centralised within Group functions, but accounting for payments is decentralised.
The Senior Management Team believes that these divisions of responsibility at both facility and corporate levels provide a natural check and balance across all internal control areas.
A delegation of authority which provides that very few individuals within the organisation have payment approval authority.
Access to cash is also restricted to very few individuals.
All material payments, including within the acquired businesses, are restricted to the senior management team.
Group businesses hold very sensitive as well as personal information and data as part of their operations.
To guard against the material risk of a cyber threat, the Group has numerous controls and procedures in place to control such threats.
In addition, Group businesses are ISO27001 certified and as part of this certification an independent third party undertakes an annual information and systems security audit.
Specifically in relation to acquired businesses, initial primary controls are implemented following completion of each transaction.
The Groups policies and procedures, covering both operational and financial aspects of each business, are incorporated into each acquired business over an appropriate timeframe.
Independent and regulatory controls As a regulated business, the Group operates within a framework of managing all elements of risk which arise within the Group.
As a result there are a number of ways in which the Company both internally and independently monitors its keys risks.
Internal Audit An effective externally provided Internal Audit program independently assists management in identifying key risks to business operations and monitors those risks through an Internal Audit program agreed with both management and the Audit Committee.
The Internal Auditors report directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee but work in conjunction with the CFO.
Their reports to the Audit Committee are received and discussed at Audit Committee meetings twice a year, usually in June and December.
Following the completion of each review, the internal auditors identify areas for remedial action and the required action plans are discussed and agreed with management.
All areas requiring remedial action are highlighted as high, medium or low risk areas.
The internal auditors present the reviews and the agreed management action plans for any remedies to the Audit Committee and then monitor the implementation of any required changes on behalf of the Audit Committee.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK continued CONTROLS AND RISK MITIGATION continued The consideration by management of the key risks faced by the Group is crucial to the work to be undertaken by the Internal Auditors.
Management consider such risks before discussing with the internal auditors their planned areas of focus for reviews in each financial year.
The Internal Audit plan for each year is agreed with the Audit Committee.
Crowe Horwath have provided internal audit services to the Group for a number of years.
Whilst some internal audit reviews have been carried out in the acquired businesses in 2015, management are currently in the process of rolling out the formal internal audit program for implementation into the acquired businesses in 2016.
Quality and Regulatory oversight Aside of financial risks, the Board is aware that as a significant healthcare and distribution business it is subject to a range of risks related to clinical care, quality and product safety.
The Healthcare division, and elements of the Distribution division, are regulated by governmental and non-governmental organisations.
In summary: Each UAE Healthcare facility is licensed by one of four regulatory bodies which exist in the UAE.
The regulatory bodies monitor performance and clinical procedures against its regulations, key metrics and guidelines: Clinica Eugin is subject to local regulatory standards and laws applicable in each jurisdiction in which they operate: Each of the Groups three Specialty Hospitals, the Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in Umm al Quwain which is managed by the Group, and the clinical laboratory of Dr Sunny Medical Centres are accredited by Joint Commission International, an internationally renowned organisation monitoring clinical metrics and quality of patient care: The distribution of pharmaceuticals is controlled through the UAE Ministry of Health: The majority of the Groups healthcare revenue results from medical insurance arrangements.
The Groups contractual arrangements with insurance providers include the monitoring of claims processing and clinical outcomes.
The Group has a Quality Team which operates in both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions.
Quarterly and annual Quality reports monitor performance against a range of key KPIs based on clinical quality and safety metrics.
Board Committees The Board and its committees provide independent oversight of managements control systems, in particular the Audit Committee in relation to finance related matters and the Clinical Governance Committee in relation to clinical matters.
The work and oversight of the board committees is set out on pages 62 to 63.
Risk appetite As there are multiple risks associated with the healthcare and distribution sectors, the process of risk management is an essential mechanism to enable risk based decision making process.
The Board recognizes that complete risk control avoidance is impossible, but that risks can be reduced by putting the right controls and mitigations in place as well as agreeing on a threshold for risk taking risk appetite.
Risk appetite provides a structure within which opportunities can be pursued by setting out which, why and how much risk the Group is willing to take.
The Senior Management Team has approved a set of risk appetite statements covering different views on the risk landscape surrounding NMCs business environment whilst addressing various risk classes.
For each risk class, Key Risk Indicators KRIs were articulated to alert against unacceptable loss events.
The purpose of setting limits and triggers is to avoid concentrations of risk which would be out of line with internal or external expectations and to: keep business activities aligned to the strategic goals of the Group: ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying risk and reward: ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities.
General Risk Appetite Statement The Company will not accept any risks that would cause losses due to: malpractice, significant decline in patient satisfaction rate, brand damages, hospital acquired infections, decrease in the utilization rate for outpatient clinics, uncontrolled discharge for inpatients, downtime of life saving sustaining systems, inaccuracy of patients records, non-compliance with internal and or external controls and standards regulatory bodies, 62 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements sensitive information patient record confidentiality breach loss, loss of sole distribution partnership agreement, loss of key staff key specialities, acquisitions, which are expected to be accretive and not dilutive.
NMC Board of Directors has approved a set of thresholds presented by management which relate to multiple business dimensions in the Healthcare and Distribution divisions to protect shareholders value.
Any areas falling short of the agreed indicators will be highlighted by management for action.
Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has been engaged in the process of ensuring that management have established continuous processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
These processes include the reporting from the finance department on Group performance, the work of the internal auditors and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of these systems and for conducting a formal annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
A system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls in place during the year, the Audit Committee considered, amongst other matters, manual controls in place, the independence of the separate operating units, the delegation of authority, the balance of centralised and decentralised systems and the reporting process in relation to exceptional items.
The Audit Committee has noted that the Group does not operate under a fully integrated high end IT environment and therefore an element of manual intervention is prevalent within the Group, including the businesses acquired during 2015.
The Board has approved the implementation of a new Hospital Information System which, together with the implementation of the new ERP financial system, will result in a new integrated IT system becoming fully functional across the Group.
The Board notes that the implementation of new IT systems will not change the level of controls inherent in the business, but they will remove elements of manual intervention from financial and operational processes.
Management have taken time to ensure that all previous business processes are captured within the new IT systems.
The roll out of the new ERP system into the Healthcare division, whilst delayed during the initial execution of the Groups strategic growth plan due to the challenges faced by the group in the initial testing phase, is now well underway across the Group and the final testing phase is in progress.
In addition to the growing nature and structure of the Group, there have also been challenges in relation to the roll out of the ERP system into the Distribution division as a result of the volume and types of transactions to be captured.
The Group has now finalised the time schedule for final roll out of the ERP system for both Healthcare and Distribution divisions.
This schedule indicates the commencement of final roll out across the Group beginning in Q3 2016 and, given the number of business units now involved, is due for completion in Q2 2017.
The Audit Committee have also noted the challenges faced as the acquired businesses are integrated into the Group.
Such acquired businesses have differing levels of controls within their businesses.
The Audit Committee have noted the initial primary and delegated authority controls which are put in place in the acquired businesses following completion as well as the roll out of financial and operational reporting requirements.
The Committee has noted that some elements of the Groups policies and procedures have been implemented in these businesses, and this will continue into 2016.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the 2015 financial year, in light of the key elements of the Groups internal controls outlined above.
Given the additional internal controls that have been incorporated into the Groups financial and operational reporting process, such that sufficient internal controls were in place to monitor the Groups key risks, the Board believes, having evaluated the effectiveness of the internal controls and procedures, that these were effective during the period covered by this report.
The Board also believes that the process undertaken by the Board and its Committees to monitor the internal control environment, accords with the guidance provided in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Company is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders and to be available to meet with shareholders who require additional explanation of any matter which is of concern to them.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are also available, either through contacting the Company Secretary or at the Companys Annual General Meeting, to discuss any matters within their areas of responsibility or where individuals do not feel it is possible to discuss these matters with management.
During 2015, the Company has continued to focus on its formal program of investor interaction including one-to-one meetings with institutional investors and attendance at investor conferences.
Mr Roy Cherry, who is the Head of Strategy & Investor Relations and a member of the Senior Management Team, leads these efforts.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Governance Corporate governance report continued SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT continued During the financial year ended 31 December 2015, the Company issued its 2014 audited results and its 2015 half year unaudited results.
In addition, given the significant strategic activities during the year, the Company kept shareholders updated regularly with regards to its long term financing and its material acquisitions, and the effect that these have on the Group.
Aside from direct shareholder meetings, the principal ongoing communication with shareholders will be through the publication of the Companys Annual report and audited financial statements and Interim Results as well as the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at the AGM.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
The Company has an investor relations section on its corporate website, www.
This has been updated regularly with information that the Company considers relevant to its investors.
Additionally, the number of analysts monitoring the Company and issuing notes in relation to their forecasts and expectations for the group continues to increase.
ETHICS WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY A confidential whistleblowing procedure is in operation allow employees to raise concerns of possible improprieties in relation to either operational or financial conduct.
BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which applies to all directors and employees of all Group Companies.
The Policy, which has been communicated to all employees, includes clear statements setting out the Groups Anti-Bribery measures and Anti-Corruption culture.
Practical guidance has been issued in relation to specific circumstances considered to be most relevant to Group employees.
These include guidance notes for clinical staff attending pharmaceutical and training and development conferences in relation to entertainment and other possible inducements, as well as guidance notes in relation to the receipt of free products and equipment and how such products and incentives may affect clinical judgement.
Specific guidance has also been provided in relation to the provision of sales incentives to senior sales and marketing staff within our Distribution division.
Employees have been provided with a copy of these policies and are aware of the significance of them.
New employees receive training on all company policies and procedures as part of their induction program.
A copy of the policies is included on the Companys employee intranet.
The Governance Report set out on pages 41 to 85 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS Chairman 64 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
