GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 62 63 Report of the audit and risk committee Chairmans Introduction Along with many other companies more work is necessary Dear Shareholder, to ensure that cyber risks are fully understood and that The Audit and Risk Committee has an important role in appropriate mitigating actions and controls are in place.
This ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and is now under way and has underlined the need for increasing in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control vigilance and urgency in this area.
I trust you find this report useful and I would welcome any The report which follows sets out details on the workings of comments.
the Committee, the work done during the year and the key issues considered in the preparation of the financial statements Andrew Allner and the related information, judgements and assurance Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee received.
29 June 2015 During the year we conducted a formal tender process for the external audit.
This was a rigorous process and resulted in strong proposals from all four firms that competed.
After careful consideration  LLP was recommended to the Board for appointment as auditor for the year ending 30 April 2016.
I would like to thank Deloitte LLP, the outgoing firm, for their excellent service and advice.
The key accounting issue considered during the year was determining appropriate depreciation rates for our vehicles.
This is an area where the accounting rules do not facilitate an easy understanding of the accounts and underlying trends in the business.
After some rigorous debate our focus turned to how we could ensure that the impact of the depreciation changes necessary was clearly explained in the financial reports.
The other area I would like to highlight and where I believe we have made good progress is risk management.
During the year we have carried out both bottom up and top down exercises identifying and quantifying the key risks the Group faces: the top down exercise included requesting the non-executive Directors to prepare their own risk summaries to ensure we gained as broad a view as possible.
There is further scope for improvement and the focus in the coming year will be on the development of more rigorous mitigation plans and more formal consideration of risk appetite.
com stock code: NTG Report of the audit and risk committee Due to the cyclical nature of its agenda, which is linked to Role events in the Groups financial calendar, the Committee will The Audit and Risk Committee is appointed by, and reports to, generally meet four times a year.
The other Directors, together the Board.
with the head of internal audit and the external auditor, are The Committees terms of reference, which include all normally invited to attend all meetings.
m atters referred to in the UK Corporate Governance Activity Code the Code, are reviewed annually by the Since May 2014, the Committee has: Committee and are available on the Companys website.
| reviewed the financial statements for the years ended In summary these include: 30 April 2014 and 2015, the half yearly report issued in | monitoring the integrity of financial reporting, reviewing December 2014 and the Interim Management Statement the Groups internal controls and risk management systems issued in September 2014.
As part of this review process, and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal the Committee received reports from Deloitte LLP on the audit function: full and half year results: | making recommendations to the Board regarding | reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be the appointment of the external auditor including undertaken by Deloitte LLP and agreed their fees: responsibilities for the statutory audit tender process and | monitored the Groups risk management process and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement: business continuity procedures, including in respect of | monitoring the independence and objectivity of the cyber security: external auditor and developing a policy for the provision | reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of of non-audit services by the external auditor: internal controls: | monitoring the audit process and any issues arising | reviewed the Groups whistleblowing procedures: therefrom: and | reviewed the Groups depreciation policy: | all aspects of Group risk.
| reviewed the Groups corporate taxation arrangements: The terms of reference have been amended to take account | monitored and reviewed the activities of the Groups of the Committees additional responsibilities arising from Internal Audit department: the FRC revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and | monitored the Groups going concern status: Guidance on Audit Committees, which has impacted on the work of the Committee in respect of the financial year ended | reviewed the findings from the FRCs 2014 Audit Quality 30 April 2015 and will do so in future years.
Review and as a result, agreed Deloittes recommendations for future improvements in audit testing: Membership | reviewed the Groups Code of Business Conduct, including The members of the Committee, who are both non-executive the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010, and the effective Directors of the Company, are: monitoring of the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality: and Date of appointment Qualification | reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference.
AJ Allner Chairman 26 September 2007 FCA G Caseberry 10 December 2012 Significant issues considered in relation to the The Code requires that at least one member of the Committee financial statements should have recent and relevant financial experience: currently, During the year the Committee considered, discussed with the the Chairman of the Committee fulfils this requirement.
All external auditor and concluded on what the significant risks members of the Committee are expected to be financially and issues were in relation to the financial statements and literate.
how these would be addressed: | Determining appropriate depreciation rates for Tom Brown stood down from the Committee in September vehicles available for hire in addition to a monthly 2014. review of adjustments to depreciation when vehicles are sold, the Committee reviewed formal papers prepared Meetings by management at each reporting date which included a The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year.
qualitative assessment of the current and forecast trends in Details of attendance at meetings held in the year ended the used vehicle market.
After due challenge and debate, 30 April 2015 are given on page 66. the Committee was content with the assumptions and judgements made: 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 64 65 | The recoverability of aged debtors throughout would also be due to rotate off following the completion of the period, ageing analysis is reported in the monthly the year ended 30 April 2015 audit.
management accounts and commentary against prior year A selection panel was formed which consisted of the Audit and plan is provided, with specific assessments of at risk and Risk Committee, the Senior Independent Director and the customers.
The Committee ensured that management Group Finance Director.
All of the Big Four firms were invited dedicated sufficient resources to mitigate bad debt risk to tender.
across the Group: During the process, the tendering firms met with senior | Presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition and finance management of the Group and were invited to visit management override of controls the Committee operational sites of the business.
Detailed written proposals considered the presumed risks of fraud as defined by were submitted before presenting to the selection panel.
auditing standards and was content that there were no issues arising: and The selection panel assessed the firms against key criteria and | Financial statements the Committee considered the recommended to the Board that  LLP presentation of the financial statements and, in particular, be appointed as auditor for the year ending 30 April 2016.
The the analysis between underlying and statutory disclosures.
criteria used to reach this decision included: The Committee was satisfied with managements | team experience, coordination and references: presentation.
| industry, technical and other specialist expertise: External auditor | audit approach, scope and methodology: The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with | response to key risks of the Group: regard to the appointment of the external auditor.
In making this recommendation, the Committee considers auditor | ideas, innovation and value to be added: effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any | reporting and communication: other factors which may impact upon the external auditors | quality control and continuous improvement: reappointment.
| conflicts and independence: The Boards policy on non-audit services provided by the | firm overview and review of the FRCs Audit Quality Review external auditor, developed and recommended by the findings: and Committee, is: | approach to and performance during the tender process.
| Certain audit related work, being work that, in its capacity as auditor, it is best placed to carry out and will generally Accordingly, a resolution proposing the appointment of be asked to do so.
Nevertheless, where appropriate, it will  LLP as auditor will be put to be asked for a fee quote: and shareholders at the AGM in September.
| Tax compliance, tax advisory and other non-audit related The Group intends to put the audit out to tender at least every and general consultancy work: this type of work will ten years as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
either be placed on the basis of the lowest fee quote or to consultants who are felt to be best able to provide the Internal audit expertise and working relationship required.
Generally, the In fulfilling its duty to monitor the effectiveness of the internal external auditor will not be invited to compete for this type audit function, the Committee has: of work.
| reviewed the adequacy of the resources of the internal Fees paid and payable to Deloitte LLP in respect of the year audit department for both the UK and Spain: under review are as shown in Note 5.
| ensured that the head of internal audit has direct access to the Chairman of the Board and to all members of the During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness and Committee: and independence of the external auditor, taking into account input from management, consideration of responses to questions | conducted a one-to-one meeting with the head of from the Committee and the audit findings reported to the internal audit, approved the internal audit programme and Committee, including conducting one-to-one meetings with the reviewed quarterly reports by the head of internal audit.
Based on all of this information, the Committee The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the concluded that the audit process was operating effectively.
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the Appointment of the external auditor work of the Committee.
During the year, the Committee conducted a formal tender for the appointment of the external auditor for the year ending Andrew Allner 30 April 2016 audit.
Deloitte LLP has been the incumbent Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee auditor since 1988 and the current Group audit partner 29 June 2015 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7
