com stock code: NTG Corporate governance UK Listed Companies are required by the Financial Conduct All Directors in office at that time were present at the Annual Authority the designated UK Listing Authority to include a General Meeting held in September 2014. statement in their annual accounts on compliance with the The external auditor and the head of internal audit attended principles of good corporate governance and code of best all Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
practice set out in the Code.
Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are to assure the Board that they can give the time commitment divided into five parts, as set out below: necessary to properly fulfil their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the 1.
Leadership telephone and meeting preparation time.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Directors, currently comprising two executive and five nonJan Astrand was appointed as non-executive Chairman of the executive Directors, details of whom are shown on pages 40 Board of our Spanish subsidiary, Northgate Espaa Renting and 41.
It is a role for which Jan is ideally suited, as he is permanently resident in Spain and fluent The offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are in Spanish.
He receives no additional remuneration for this separate.
This appointment will terminate in September The division of their responsibilities has been set out in 2015 at the same time as he retires from the Board.
w riting, approved by the Board and is available on the The Board considers that the above appointment is in the best Companys website.
interests of the Company and of the shareholders and, whilst The Board meets regularly to review trading results and has Jan cannot be considered to be independent in terms of the responsibility for the major areas of Group strategy, the Code or by the National Association of Pension Funds, the annual Business Plan, financial reporting to and relationships Board is satisfied that it does not affect his independence of with shareholders, dividend policy, internal financial and judgement when carrying out his duties as a Director of the other controls, financing and treasury policy, insurance policy, Company.
major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, Board The Board has established a Nominations Committee, which structure, remuneration policy, corporate governance and is chaired by Bob Mackenzie.
All the non-executive Directors compliance.
are members except for Jan Astrand.
Its main function is to lead the process for Board appointments by selecting and 2.
Effectiveness proposing to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed calibre.
The Committee would normally expect to use the to enable them to discharge their duties.
In particular, detailed services of professional consultants to help in the search for management accounts are prepared and copies sent to all candidates.
Board members every month and, in advance of each Board meeting, appropriate documentation on all items to be The Committee has written terms of reference which are discussed is circulated.
available on the Companys website.
Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings Pursuant to those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 during the year is detailed below.
relating to conflicts of interest and in accordance with the Audit authority contained in the Companys Articles of Association, Board and risk Remuneration Nominations the Board has put in place procedures to deal with the No.
of Meetings 9 4 5 1 notification, authorisation, recording and monitoring of RD Mackenzie 9 5 1 Directors conflicts of interest and these procedures have AJ Allner 9 4 5 1 operated effectively throughout the year and to the date of JG Astrand 8 signing of this report and accounts.
G Caseberry 9 4 5 1 RL Contreras 7 CJR Muir 9 A Page 3 2 A ndrew Page was appointed to the Board on 2 December 2014 and to the Remuneration Committee on 28 January 2015.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 66 67 Diversity Control environment The Board has considered the recommendations of the The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure Davies Review into Women on Boards in the light of the within which individual responsibilities of line and financial provisions of both section B.
2 of the Code, with which we are management for the maintenance of strong internal compliant, and of our existing policies and procedures.
The controls and the production of accurate and timely financial Board recognises the benefits of diversity at all levels of the management information are identified and can be monitored.
business and in order to reinforce the Boards commitment Where appropriate, the business is required to comply with the to equality, the Board has endorsed an Equal Opportunities procedures set out in written manuals.
Policy which may be found on our website.
Whilst the To demonstrate the Boards commitment to maintaining the overriding criteria for Board appointments will always be based highest business and ethical standards and to promote a on merit, so as to encourage an appropriate balance of skills, culture of honesty and integrity amongst all staff, the Board experience and knowledge on the Board at all times, for all has established a confidential telephone service, operated by future appointments we will only use executive search firms an independent external organisation, which may be used by who have committed to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on all staff to report any issues of concern relating to dishonesty gender diversity.
At the same time the Board recognises that, or malpractice within the Group.
All issues reported are particularly given the nature of its business, the development investigated by senior management.
of a pool of suitably qualified candidates may take time to achieve and therefore does not believe it is appropriate to set identification of risks targets, however aspirational, at the present time.
The Board and the Groups management have a clearly defined responsibility for identifying the major business risks Board review facing the Group and for developing systems to mitigate and In view of the number of changes to the Board this year, manage those risks.
The control of key risks is reviewed by including in particular the forthcoming appointment of a new the Board and the Groups management at their monthly Chairman, the undertaking of a formal evaluation process has meetings.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is been deferred until later this year.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that it has been in 3.
Accountability place for the year under review and up to the date of approval An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is of these accounts and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and in the Strategic Report on pages 12 to 38. information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial Internal control results to the Board.
Each operating unit prepares monthly Provision C. 2.1 of the Code requires the Directors to conduct accounts with a comparison against their business plan and an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system against the previous year, with regular review by management of internal controls.
The Turnbull guidance provides relevant of variances from targeted performance levels.
A Business guidance for Directors on compliance with the internal control Plan is prepared by management and approved by the Board provisions of the Code.
Each operating unit prepares a two year Business Corporate governance Plan with performance reported against key performance The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal indicators on a monthly basis together with comparisons controls which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper to plan and prior year.
These are reviewed regularly by accounting records are maintained and that the financial management.
Forecasts are updated regularly throughout information used within the business and for publication is the year.
Although no system of internal controls can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that, should any problems occur, these are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key features of the Groups system of internal controls, which was in place throughout the period covered by the accounts, are described below: 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG Corporate governance CONTINUED Control procedures The Companys major institutional shareholders have been The Board and the Groups management have adopted a advised by the Chief Executive that, in line with the provisions schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it of the Code, the Senior Independent Director and other nonfor decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective executives may attend these briefings and, in any event, would control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational attend if requested to do so.
Measures taken include clearly defined All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and authorisation, discussion at the Annual General Meeting, of which more than physical controls, segregation of duties and routine and ad hoc the recommended minimum 20 working days notice is given.
Details of proxies lodged in respect of the Annual General Monitoring Meeting will be published on the Companys website The Board has delegated to executive management immediately following the meeting.
implementation of the system of internal control.
The Board, including the Audit and Risk Committee, receives reports Compliance with the Code on the system of control from the external auditor and from The Board considers that the Company complied with the management.
An independent Internal Audit function reports provisions of the Code throughout the year with the quarterly to the Audit and Risk Committee primarily on the key exception of: areas of risk within the business.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal C. 3.1 since Tom Browns retirement from the Board in controls covering financial, operational and compliance September 2014, the Audit Committee has comprised two matters and risk management, for the period covered by these independent non-executive Directors, rather than three.
As accounts in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
stated elsewhere in these accounts, the Board is actively recruiting a new non-executive Director who will be appointed Audit to this Committee: and An account of the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is given in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages B.
6 for the reasons explained above, the Board review will be 63 to 65. undertaken later this year.
Remuneration By order of the Board The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the remuneration of each Director are given in the Remuneration D Henderson Report on pages 45 to 62.
Relations with shareholders Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors and brokers analysts, providing them with such information on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, at the time of announcing the Companys half and full year results, they are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
