Corporate governance approach Corporate governance is very important to Nostrum andthe Changes in the operating structure: the Board promotes high standards of corporate governance ExecutiveCommittee asa key component of its activities.
The Company is now In February 2015 the Group established an executive subject to the provisions of the September 2014 version committee comprised of all of the executive directors, ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The whose details are provided on page 66, together Code is publicly available on the website of the UK Financial withThomas Hartnett, Heinz Wendel and Gudrun Wykrota, Reporting Council www.
whose details are provided on page 68.
Please refer to pages 77 to 80 for a detailed explanation Subject to Kai-Uwe Kessels overall responsibility as Chief ofthe ways in which the Company complies with each Executive for executive management, each member of the provision of the Code.
The Company fully complies with all Executive Committee has oversight responsibility for provisions of the Code with the exception of those matters particular functional areas as follows: set out on page 76, in respect of which the reasons for Executive Committee adivergence from the Code position is explained.
Member s Functional Area The Board considers all of its non-executive directors, Frank Monstrey Strategy otherthan Piet Everaert and Pankaj Jain, to be independent Kai-Uwe Kessel within the meaning of such term as defined in the Code.
Frank Monstrey Corporate Finance and Piet Everaert and Pankaj Jain are not deemed to be Communications, including: independent as a result of having been nominated by &RUSRUDWH LQDQFH Claremont Holdings C. V. a Dutch limited partnership FRQRPLF $QDO VLV indirectly controlled by Frank Monstrey, the chairman of, QYHVWRU 5HODWLRQV theCompany, and his spouse and Mayfair Investments B. V. [WHUQDO &RPPXQLFDWLRQV Mayfair, respectively, who are the two largest shareholders in the Company.
3XEOLF 5HODWLRQV Jan-Ru Muller Finance, including: The Code recommends that the Board should appoint one %XGJHW &RQWURO of its independent non-executive directors to act in the 7UHDVXU &DVK 0DQDJHPHQW capacity of senior independent director.
Eike von der Linden serves in such capacity as the Boards senior independent 5LVN 0DQDJHPHQW director.
LDLVRQ ZLWK, QWHUQDO $XGLW, QIRUPDWLRQ &RPPXQLFDWLRQ The Board has appointed an audit committee, Technology ICT aremuneration committee and a nomination and Gudrun Wykrota Accounting and Tax, including: governance committee.
The members of these committees are appointed principally from among the independent $FFRXQWLQJ DQG 5HSRUWLQJ directors and all appointments to these committees are 7D[ 0DWWHUV fora period of one year.
The terms of reference of the Kai-Uwe Kessel Business Development, including: various committees have been drawn up in accordance Frank Monstrey [SORUDWLRQ withthe provisions of the Code.
$SSUDLVDO Each committee and each director has the authority to RYHUQPHQWDO, QWHUDFWLRQ seekindependent professional advice where necessary 7UDQVDFWLRQ 0DQDJHPHQW todischarge their respective duties, in each case at the 3HHU $QDO VLV 0DUNHW, QWHOOLJHQFH Companys expense.
In addition, each director and Heinz Wendel Operations, including: committee has access to the advice of the Company 'HYHORSPHQW Secretary, Thomas Hartnett.
3URGXFWLRQ $EDQGRQPHQW 4 6 5HODWLRQV ZLWK RYHUQPHQW Authorities 3URFXUHPHQW 5HVHDUFK 'HYHORSPHQW 6HFXULW $GPLQLVWUDWLRQ LFHQVLQJ Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 70 Annual Report 2015 C h i e f E x e E c x u e t i v c e u Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Executive Committee Governance framework Member s Functional Area Kai-Uwe Kessel Sales & Marketing, including: 6DOHV 2LO DV 3URGXFWV Board Remuneration 0DUNHWLQJ Committee Board RJLVWLFV 7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ Board Audit Nomination Thomas Hartnett Legal, HR and Company Committee & Governance Administration, including: Committee HJDO 0DWWHUV &RPSOLDQFH &RUSRUDWH RYHUQDQFH &RPSDQ $GPLQLVWUDWLRQ 2YHUVLJKW RI 6HUYLFH &RPSDQLHV Board XPDQ 5HVRXUFHV Each member of the Executive Committee has functional management authority over the respective organisational units and areas within the Group listed next to their name inthe above table.
Their ongoing responsibilities include ensuring that goals and objectives are aligned with the Groups overall strategy and vision.
Functional responsibilities of Executive Committee members in their respective areas include but are not limited to: LPSOHPHQWLQJ GHFLVLRQV WDNHQ E WKH [HFXWLYH Committee within their functional team WUDFNLQJ EXVLQHVV SURFHVVHV DQG PDQDJLQJ WDVNV How the Board works The Board schedules four regular meetings during the DOORFDWLQJ UHVRXUFHV WR DFKLHYH EHWWHU HIILFLHQF ZLWKLQ course of the year and in addition meets when appropriate their functional area to review trading performance, budgets and funding, set LGHQWLI LQJ DQG DGGUHVVLQJ LQHIILFLHQFLHV HVWDEOLVKLQJ and monitor strategy, examine acquisition opportunities standards and best practices and report to shareholders.
SURYLGLQJ GLUHFWLRQ WR HPSOR HHV ZLWKLQ WKHLU IXQFWLRQDO The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for team itsdecision which cover decisions relating to: SURYLGLQJ SURIHVVLRQDO JXLGDQFH WUDLQLQJ DQG FDUHHU VWUDWHJ DQG PDQDJHPHQW development within their functional team VWUXFWXUH DQG FDSLWDO UHYLHZLQJ SHUIRUPDQFH RI IXQFWLRQDO WHDP PHPEHUV DQG ILQDQFLDO UHSRUWLQJ DQG FRQWUROV making recommendations to line managers regarding employee performance and remuneration LQWHUQDO FRQWUROV ZRUNLQJ WRJHWKHU ZLWK OLQH PDQDJHUV DQG SURPRWLQJ FRQWUDFWV DQG H[SHQGLWXUH cross-functional integration.
FRPPXQLFDWLRQ The Executive Committee meet on a weekly basis to discuss %RDUG PHPEHUVKLS DQG RWKHU DSSRLQWPHQWV and approve matters affecting or required for the day-to-day ordinary operation of the Group.
UHPXQHUDWLRQ GHOHJDWLRQ RI DXWKRULW FRUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH PDWWHUV DQG DSSURYDO RI FHUWDLQ URXS SROLFLHV The schedule is reviewed annually and is available on our website.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 71 C t i o v m e m i O t t e f e f i c e r Corporate governance approach continued The Board is responsible for considering all important The key responsibilities of the Board include: management and policy matters in relation to the Company VHWWLQJ WKH &RPSDQ V VWUDWHJLF DLPV and the Group and has the powers and duties set out in therelevant laws of England and Wales and the Companys HQVXULQJ WKDW WKH QHFHVVDU ILQDQFLDO DQG KXPDQ UHVRXUFHV articles of association.
are in place for the Company to meet its objectives: UHYLHZLQJ URXS PDQDJHPHQW SHUIRUPDQFH DQG VHWWLQJ WKH URXSV YDOXHV DQG VWDQGDUGV WR HQVXUH WKDW itsobligations to all shareholders are understood and met.
Board activities in the 2015 financial year Board activities are structured to assist the Board in achieving its goal to support and advise executive management on the delivery of the Groups strategy within a transparent governance framework.
The diagram below shows the main areas of focus of the Board during 2015. Business performance Diversity and talent &KLHI [HFXWLYHV 6XFFHVVLRQ SODQQLQJ business report 7DOHQW FDSDELOLW DQG &RPPHUFLDO diversity performance HQGHU GLYHUVLW in local markets %XVLQHVV GHYHORSPHQW [SORUDWLRQ Business risks 6WUDWHJLF DQG 2SHUDWLRQV XSGDWHV operational risks 6DQFWLRQV Business strategy 5XVVLD 6WUDWHJ DQG 2LO SULFHV operations report Governance Being responsible Board %RDUG SHUIRUPDQFH HDOWK DQG VDIHW and evaluation HJDO DQG FRPSOLDQFH %RDUG FRPPLWWHH 5HSXWDWLRQ reports QYLURQPHQW &RUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH updates Shareholder focus 5HYLHZ FRPPLWWHH 5HWXUQV WR membership shareholders &RPPXQLFDWLRQ ZLWK Financials shareholders &KLHI LQDQFLDO, QYHVWRU UHODWLRQV Officers report 4XDUWHUO DQG Sustainability full year results 6XVWDLQDEOH EXVLQHVV, QWHUQDO DXGLW practices Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 72 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Board composition Appointment and tenure The Board consists of nine directors.
As at 31 December All executive directors have service agreements with the 2015, in addition to the Chairman, Frank Monstrey, there Company and all non-executive directors have letters of were two executive directors and six non-executive appointment with the Company.
For all executive directors directors.
there is no term limit on their services, as the Company proposes all executive directors for annual re-election at Within the Board, the roles of chairman and chief executive each subsequent Annual General Meeting of the Company.
are separate, with each having distinct and clearly defined responsibilities.
The chairman, Frank Monstrey, is The appointment of each of the non-executive directors responsible for leadership of the Board and for ensuring its commenced on 19 May 2014.
Each appointment is for an effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The chairman sets the initial term of three years, subject to being re-elected as agenda for Board meetings in consultation with the chief adirector at each subsequent Annual General Meeting of executive, the chief financial officer and the general counsel theCompany.
The letters of appointment for non-executive and company secretary.
The chairman is also responsible for directors do not set a fixed time commitment as it is ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear anticipated that the time required of directors may fluctuate information and that there is effective communication with depending on the demands of the Companys business the directors.
The chief executive provides leadership to the andother events.
It is expected that directors will allocate Group, which enables the successful planning and sufficient time to the Company in order to discharge their execution of the objectives and strategies agreed by the duties effectively.
The chief executive is also responsible for care of the Copies of the service agreements of the executive directors Groups assets and, jointly with the chairman, representation and the letters of appointment for the non-executive of the Group to third parties.
directors are available for inspection at the Companys Eike von der Linden as senior independent non-executive registered office and will also be available for inspection director provides a sounding board for the chairman and atthe Annual General Meeting.
serves as an intermediary for the other directors when Company Secretary necessary.
He is available should the need arise to convey The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the concerns to the Board other than through the chairman or Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
directors have access to the advice and services of the The Boards Nomination and Governance Committee keeps Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring Board the balance, independence and succession plans of the procedures are complied with and that there is a good flow Board under review so as to maintain an appropriate of information between the Board and its committees.
The balance of skills and experience within the Company and on appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved the Board in accordance with the Code.
Board diversity The Board has due regard for the importance of, and benefits from, diversity in its membership, including gender diversity, and strives to maintain an appropriate balance onthe Board.
The Board is comprised of individuals with diverse sectoral experience, ages and geographic and ethnic origin.
Whilst there are currently no women on Nostrums Board, gender diversity is important to us and the Nomination and Governance Committee is currently working together with the chairman to source a suitable female Board member toreplace one of the Companys current non-executive directors in 2016.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 73 Corporate governance approach continued Board evaluation 2QH GLUHFWRU VXJJHVWHG WKDW DGGLWLRQDO %RDUG WUDLQLQJ In line with the requirements of the Code, the Company should be considered to keep the Board up-to-date aims to review Board effectiveness annually, with Board onvalues and standards.
In addition to training that the effectiveness also being reviewed through an external Company organises for directors, all directors are regularly performance evaluation every three years.
encouraged to discuss any training and development needs at Board meetings and to make recommendations In 2015 a detailed questionnaire was prepared by the to the chairman outside of such meetings.
However, Company Secretary and distributed to each director for toensure that all directors feel able to make such their feedback regarding the Boards performance and suggestions going forward consideration will be given effectiveness.
The directors were asked to provide their toadding the discussion of director training as views on a range of subjects, including multiple questions in afixedagenda item at all quarterly Board meetings four principal areas: leadership, effectiveness, accountability oftheCompany.
Director induction and training Key findings and action items coming out of the Each individual joining the Board receives a full, formal self-evaluation include the following: induction package with materials on the Groups business and operational, financial and legal matters.
They also 6HYHUDO GLUHFWRUV QRWHG WKDW WKH LPSOHPHQWDWLRQ RI participate in discussions with members of the Board and aboard portal across the Group designed to improve representatives of major shareholders in order to obtain theefficiency of information sharing and the distribution agood understanding of the challenges and opportunities of Board and committee materials has improved faced by the Group.
Directors are often given the communications between the executive and opportunity to discuss their training and development non-executive directors and the timeliness of the needs and to make recommendations to the chairman dissemination of information to the Board.
regarding topics on which they would like to receive 2QH GLUHFWRU VXJJHVWHG WKDW WKH JHQGHU EDODQFH RI WKH training.
Board be addressed when appropriate.
This has been In response to requests from directors, a site visit for the adopted as an action item for the Nomination and Governance Committee which is currently in the process Board to the Groups Chinarevskoye field operations in Kazakhstan was arranged in 2015.
Geology and reservoir of identifying a suitable female Board candidate to replace one of the non-executive directors in 2016. training was given as part of the site visit and covered topics such as certain regional field studies, production forecasts &HUWDLQ GLUHFWRUV VXJJHVWHG WKDW WKH %RDUGV GLDORJXH and exploration and appraisal activities.
withshareholders and shareholder representative groupscould be developed further and feedback from The directors regularly attend training events organised bythird parties and the Company actively encourages management to the non-executive directors regarding anyshareholder concerns could be improved.
Whilst directors to attend such events.
During 2015, members ofthe Audit Committee have been attending various theCompany regularly engages with shareholders it doesso mainly via its investor relations team and workshops hosted by third parties regarding the new requirement under provision C. 2.2 of the Code for the executivedirectors.
Going forward the aim is to expand this engagement to the non-executive directors by Company to include a viability statement in its Annual Report and the Audit Committee has regularly reported arranging meetings with shareholders and or shareholder representative groups as and when requested or appropriate.
tothe Board on such matters and requested additional meetings with the chairman to discuss this new requirement.
2QH GLUHFWRU VXJJHVWHG WKDW VWUDWHJLF LVVXHV VKRXOG Shareholder engagement bediscussed at Board level at an earlier stage and this Nostrum is in regular contact with its shareholders and suggestion is being considered further by the Board sell-side analysts and has maintained an active and andsenior management.
transparent dialogue throughout the year.
We keep all existing and prospective investors abreast of company newsby issuing regular operational and financial press releases via the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory NewsService, as well as on Nostrums website.
Additionally, each of our quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results are accompanied by a conference call for investors and analysts to hear from Nostrums senior management.
Russian translations of all press releases and financial reports together with a variety of other shareholder information arealso available on our website.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 74 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures We respond to daily queries from existing and prospective Board Committees shareholders and sell-side analysts through our Investor The Board has established a nomination and governance Relations team.
Our registrars, Capita Asset Services, also committee, an audit committee and a remuneration have a team who respond to any technical queries committee.
Further details on each of these committees shareholders have regarding their holdings in the Company.
canbe found in their reports on pages 88 to 97.
The terms Extensive information is available on our website, where of reference of each of these committees can be found shareholders or those with an interest in the Group can onour website at www.
logtheir details to receive email updates.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources Nostrum attends investor conferences and industry forums to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective throughout the year and we publish a list of these in manner.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the advance on the investor relations section of our website.
The minutes of committee meetings are Weare available for ad hoc shareholder meetings with circulated to all directors.
Over the year, the Meetings of the Board and its committees are scheduled Investor Relations team and management met with over forMarch, May, August and November each year.
unable to attend a Board meeting because of another Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General engagement are provided with the briefing materials and Meeting to discuss the progress of the Group.
OurAnnual can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the chairman General Meeting is open to all our shareholders to attend or the chief executive.
In addition to scheduled Board and advance notice of the time, date and location is given.
meetings, there are other ad hoc meetings called to deal Itprovides an opportunity for shareholders to meet with specific matters as and when they arise.
withand ask questions of the Board in a more informal Attendance at meetings of the Board and its environment.
committees in the 2015 financial year Policies Nomination & The Company has adopted a share dealing code, which Audit Remuneration Governance Board Committee Committee Committee incorporates the Model Code as published in the Listing Rules and applies to the directors, senior management A B A B A B A B andother relevant employees of the Group.
The Companys Executive directors share dealing code will be updated to take account of the Frank Monstrey 7 7 4 4 new market abuse rules which come into force in July 2016.
Kai-Uwe Kessel 7 6 Jan-Ru Muller 7 7 Bribery and corruption are significant risks in the oil and gas Non-executive directors industry and as such the Company operates a Group-wide Eike von der anti-bribery and corruption policy, which applies to all 1 Linden 7 7 8 8 4 4 4 4 Group employees and contractor staff.
The policy requires Piet Everaert 7 7 4 4 annual bribery and corruption risk assessments: risk-based due diligence on all parties with whom the Company does Atul Gupta 7 6 8 7 business: appropriate anti-bribery and corruption clauses Pankaj Jain 6 4 2 incontracts: and the training of personnel in anti-bribery Mark Martin 7 6 4 4 and corruption measures.
In addition, the Companys code Sir Christopher 3 of conduct requires that employees or others working on Codrington, Bt.
7 7 8 8 4 4 4 4 behalf of the Company do not engage in bribery or A Total number of meetings the director was eligible to attend.
B Total number of meetings the director did attend.
1 Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Company has adopted a whistle-blowing 2 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
policy that takes account of the Whistle-blowing 3 Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Arrangements Code of Practice issued by the British Standards Institute and Public Concern at Work.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 75 Corporate governance approach continued Compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate D. 2.1 The Companys Remuneration Committee consists GovernanceCode ofthree independent non-executive directors Mark Martin, Nostrum fully complied throughout 2015 with the provisions Eike von der Linden and Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
of the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and one non-independent non-executive director the Code except in the following respects: PietEveraert.
3.1 The chairman does not meet the independence Provision D. 2.1 of the Code provides that the Remuneration criteria set out in B.
1.1 of the Code, in part given his Committee must include at least three independent executive position in the Company.
Companies owned and non-executive directors and the Companys remuneration controlled by the chairman acquired the Groups assets committee meets such requirement.
However, the outright in 2004 and the chairman has been a leading driver Company understands that the most common behind the successful development of the business since interpretation of provision D. 2.1 of the Code is that that date.
As such, the other members of the Board consider anyadditional director appointed as a member of the that the chairmans continued involvement as an executive committee must also be an independent non-executive director is important for the future of the business, director.
If such interpretation is correct, Mr Everaerts giventhechairmans experience and expertise in the membership in the Remuneration Committee does development of the Groups oil and gas assets in notcomply with provision D. 2.1 of the Code.
In order to ensure there would be no conflict of interest, B.
1.2 Given that the chairman fulfils an executive role and thecommittee decided in 2015 that Mr Everaert would not Piet Everaert and Pankaj Jain are not categorised as participate in any discussions, or vote on any resolutions, independent directors as a result of having been nominated regarding Frank Monstreys remuneration.
In addition, on by Claremont Holdings C. V. and Mayfair Investments B. V. 22March 2016 Mr Everaert resigned from the Remuneration Mayfair, respectively, five of the nine directors on the Committee so that the composition of the committee would Board are not considered independent for the purposes comply with Provisions D. 2.1of the Code.
Mayfair, whilst not considered independent for E. 2.3 All directors did not attend the 2015 Annual General the purposes of the Code, is independent of the other Meeting, however those directors who did not attend were shareholders in the Company.
Mayfair has no alignment available by teleconference to answer questions from with any other major shareholder and hence Mayfairs shareholders.
nominee to the Board is considered to be independent in character and judgement with no relationships that directly We describe how we have applied the main principles of affect his judgement and no single group is therefore able the2014 Code in the following table, cross-referencing to exercise majority influence over the Board as a whole.
toother parts of this annual report.
The table helps us to Inorder to provide additional protections to the Company evaluate our compliance during the year and should be in respect of these areas of non-compliance with the Code, read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance section the Company has entered into relationship agreements as a whole.
Headings in the table correspond to the witheach of Claremont Holdings C. V. and KazStroyService headings in the Code.
On 30 January 2015 Mayfair an affiliate of KSS Global acquired 48,333,300 ordinary shares in the Company from KSS Global and pursuant to a deed ofadherence of the same date undertook to the Company to be bound by the terms of the relationship agreement previously signed between the Company and KSS Global and to observe and perform all of the provisions and obligations of such relationship agreement in so far as theyfall to be observed or performed on or after the date ofthe transfer.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 76 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures A.
2 Division of responsibilities The Boards responsibilities are set out in the section Frank Monstrey, the chairman, is responsible for leading entitled How the Board Works on page 71 of the theBoard while Kai-Uwe Kessel, the chief executive, is AnnualReport.
responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
Further details of the roles of chairman and chief executive The Board met formally seven times during 2015.
All can be found on page 73 of the Annual Report.
directors are, where possible, expected to attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings.
Details of Board meeting attendance for the year are set out on page 75 oftheAnnual Report.
The Board has approved certain policies including a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, a delegation ofsignature authority policy and an internal approvals policy which delegates the approval of certain matters tothe Executive Committee and or certain of its members.
Further information can be found on page 75 of theAnnualReport.
4 Non-executive directors The chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings and The Board has appointed Eike von der Linden as senior promotes a culture of openness and debate by ensuring independent non-executive director.
Mr von der Linden there is effective communication between executive and provides a communication channel between the chairman non-executive directors.
Further information regarding Mr von der Lindens role can be found on As explained in more detail on page 76 of the Annual page73 of the Annual Report.
Report the chairman does not meet the independence criteria set out in provision B.
The chairman is available to the non-executive directors and often attends meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in the absence of the other executive directors.
The Nomination and Governance Committee Report can be found on pages 88 of the Annual Report.
1 The composition of the Board B.
2 Appointments to the Board The Board consists of nine directors: three executive The Nomination and Governance Committee leads directors, four independent non-executive directors and theappointment of new directors.
The report of the two non-executive directors who are not considered Nomination and Governance Committee can be found independent for the purposes of the Code.
Therefore, as onpages 88 of the Annual Report and provides an explained in further detail on page 76 of the Annual overview of what the committee has done during the year.
Report, the current composition of the Board does not The Nomination and Governance Committee terms of comply with provision B.
1.1 of the Code as five of the nine reference can be found at: http: www.
directors on the Board are not considered independent.
The Nomination and Governance Committee is A majority of members of the Nomination and Governance responsible for regularly reviewing the composition of Committee are independent and Sir Christopher theBoard.
No changes were made to the composition Codrington, Bt.
in his capacity as an independent ofthe Board during 2015. non-executive director is chairperson of the committee.
All directors are subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 77 Corporate governance approach continued B.
4 Development Details of each directors other significant commitments Details of director induction and training are provided areset out in their biographies on pages 66 to 67 of onpage 74 of the Annual Report.
Directors are required to report anychanges to their commitments to the Board.
The executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Non-executive directors are advised of the time commitment expected from them on appointment and byaccepting their appointment non-executive directors undertake that they will be able to allocate sufficient time tomeet the time commitment required of the role.
6 Evaluation The Company has an agreed procedure for directors to The Board and its committees undertook an internal take independent professional advice at the expense of evaluation during 2015.
In accordance with provision theCompany which is managed by the company secretary.
6.2and as the Board has conducted internal evaluations No such independent advice was sought in the 2015 for the past two years, the Board will arrange for an financial year.
externally facilitated evaluation of the Board during 2016.
The company secretary assists the chairman by organising The outcomes of the 2015 Board evaluation exercise induction and training programmes and is responsible for canbefound on page 74 of the Annual Report.
ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed.
The company secretary also assists the chairman in ensuring that all directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
The removal of the company secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
7 Re-election All directors were subject to shareholder election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting, as will be the case at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The biographies for all of the Companys directors can be found on pages 66 to 67 of the Annual Report.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 78 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and business reporting C. 2 Risk management and internal control The directors statement of responsibility regarding An overview of the Companys principal risks and thefinancial statements is set out on page 111 of the uncertainties can be found on pages 61 to 63 of the Annual Report.
The directors going concern statement Annual Report.
isgiven onpage 120 of the Annual Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the The statement from the Companys auditor regarding significant risks that may affect the Group in achieving its itsreporting responsibilities is set out on page 114 strategic objectives.
More details on this matter together ofthe Annual Report.
with details of how the Audit Committee, internal audit manager and senior management of the Group assist the Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk can be found in the Risk Management section of the Annual Report on pages 59 to 60.
The directors viability statement can be found on page 60 of the Annual Report.
C. 3 Audit committee andauditors The Board has delegated a number of functions to the Audit Committee which are explained in more detail intheAudit Committee report which can be found on pages82 to 87 of the Annual Report and in the terms of referencefor the Audit Committee which can be found at: http: www.
Regular updates are provided to the Board by the AuditCommittee chairman.
The Audit Committee consists of at least three independent directors.
The chairman is not a member ofthe Audit Committee.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 79 Corporate governance approach continued D. Remuneration D. 1 The level and components of remuneration D. 2 Procedure The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting The Remuneration Committee consists of at least the Groups remuneration policy.
For further information threeindependent non-executive directors, however, see the Remuneration Committee report on pages 89 MrEveraert, a non-independent non-executive director, to 97 of the Annual Report and the directors remuneration isalso a member of the Remuneration Committee and the policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2015 Company understands that the common interpretation of Annual General Meeting on pages 98 to 103 of the provision D. 2.1 of the Code is that any additional director Annual Report.
appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee must also be an independent non-executive director and therefore the Company does not fully comply with 1 provision D. 2.1 of the Code.
Further details can be found on page 76 of the Annual Report.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Remuneration Committee including determining the remuneration of the chairman, the chief executive, the chief financial officer, the company secretary and the executive committee.
Full details are set out in the Remuneration Committee terms of reference which can be found at: http: www.
The chairman, the chief executive and the chief financial officer determine the remuneration of all non-executive directors, including members of the committees.
E. Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders E. 2 Constructive use of General Meetings The Board seeks to engage with shareholders regularly The Companys Annual General Meeting provides andthe chairman seeks to ensure that the Board is kept shareholders with the opportunity to vote on certain appraised of shareholder views.
aspects of the Groups business and to speak with the directors.
Further information regarding shareholder engagement can be found on pages 74 to 75 of the Annual Report.
Voting on all resolutions at the Annual General Meeting ison a poll.
The proxy votes cast, including details of the votes withheld, are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results are published on the Companys website and via the Regulatory News Service.
A copy of the notice of the Annual General Meeting willbeposted on our website and sent by post to those shareholders who have not opted-in to electronic communications at least twenty working days before theAnnual General Meeting.
1 Mr Everaert resigned as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 22 March 2016.
The corporate governance approach has been approved by the Board.
Kai-Uwe Kessel Jan-Ru Muller Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 29 March 2016 29 March 2016 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 80 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 81
