Nomination and Governance Committee Report Letter from the Chairman Main activities of the committee during the year During 2015 the committee has continued to focus on succession planning by assessing the current balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and those required of future appointments to the Board.
The committee is satisfied that the mix of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board and, in particular, those of the chairman and chief executive remain appropriate.
The committee has focused its attention on developing profiles for future Board candidates.
The committee discussed executive succession planning and, in relation to the chairman, it was agreed that in the Chairmans introduction event the chairman became unable to continue in that I am pleased to report on the Nominations and rolefor any reason, the senior independent director would Governance Committee, which I chair.
replace him on an interim basis until a new chairman is selected.
The Nomination and Governance Committee has met fourtimes this year.
The attendance of each committee Diversity is an important issue for the Board and it recognises that steps should be taken to meet the member at committee meetings held during 2015 voluntary Board gender diversity targets set by Lord isshown on page 75.
Therefore, the committee has spent much of Membership 2015focusing on the subject resulting in the engagement The committee consists of three members: Frank Monstrey, of two search firms to assist with identifying suitable Eike von der Linden and myself who have all been female Board candidates.
When a suitable female Board members since 19 May 2014.
The primary responsibilities candidate is identified and agrees to join the Board of the committee are set out in its terms of reference amember of the Board will step down to allow for the which are reviewed and updated annually and which appointment of a female Board member.
areavailable for download on the Companys website.
Alternatively, copies can be obtained on request from The committee discussed Mr Everaerts position on the thecompany secretary.
Remuneration Committee during 2015 and it was agreed that Mr Everaert should remain as a member of the Role of the Nomination and Governance Committee Remuneration Committee but that given his non-independent The key responsibilities of the committee are to: status he should not be involved in any discussions OHDG WKH SURFHVV IRU %RDUG DSSRLQWPHQWV DQG PDNH ordecisions regarding Mr Monstreys remuneration.
recommendations to the Board regarding candidates However, on 22 March 2016 Mr Everaert resigned from forappointment or reappointment as directors: theRemuneration Committee so that the Company wouldcomply unquestionably with the UK Corporate PRQLWRU DQG PDNH UHFRPPHQGDWLRQV WR WKH %RDUG RQ Governance Code on this point.
board governance and corporate governance issues, to enable the Board to operate effectively and efficiently: The committee has also kept the training needs of the directors under review throughout the year, especially in UHJXODUO UHYLHZ WKH VWUXFWXUH VL]H DQG FRPSRVLWLRQ relation to operational, environmental and social matters.
including skills, knowledge and experience required ofthe Board: During the year ahead the committee intends to continue to build on the progress it has made in terms of NHHS XQGHU UHYLHZ WKH OHDGHUVKLS QHHGV RI WKH succession planning and gender diversity, to keep the Company, both executive and non-executive, with a composition of the Board and its committees under viewto ensuring the continued ability of the Company constant review and to assess how talent is developed tocompete effectively in the marketplace: and internally to create a pipeline to the Board to ensure that UHYLHZ DQQXDOO WKH WLPH UHTXLUHG IURP QRQ H[HFXWLYH good governance practices are being achieved.
Committee meetings Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
Only members of the committee have the right to attend On behalf of the Nomination and Governance Committee committee meetings.
However, other individuals such as 29 March 2016 the chief executive, the head of human resources and external advisers may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 88 Annual Report 2015
