Audit Committee Report Letter from the Chairman It is paramount that the duties of the Audit Committee When the committee members had questions or are performed effectively in market conditions such as comments on the monthly management reports, those these, with the last year punctuated by the continued were immediately discussed with the Groups CFO and, decline in oil prices.
I am pleased to say that throughout when considered necessary, recommendations were 2015 the Audit Committee has remained focused on made to the executive management team.
itsresponsibilities to Nostrums shareholders and has Quarterly meetings of the committee usually take place a continued to deliver oversight and control successfully.
few days or just prior to a Board meeting to maximise the In addition, the Committee has embraced the new efficiency of the committees interaction with the Board.
regulatory requirement of the viability statement and As chairman of the committee, it is my responsibility to looks forward to building this firmly into Nostrums report to the Board on key topics discussed at committee corporate governance practices from now on.
meetings to ensure that all directors are informed of the committees work.
Since its last reporting date, the Audit Committee has held eight formal meetings, of which four were held in I believe that the committee consists of members with preparation and connection with Board meetings and anexcellent balance of skills and experience, allowing the three in anticipation of the viability statement.
In committee to perform its tasks effectively whilst being addition, eight Audit Committee conference calls were supported by the management, the external auditor and conducted, the last four in connection with tendering the Groups internal audit manager.
ofexternal audit services for the year 2016.
My private meetings with Nostrums external audit Eike von der Linden partner gave the Audit Committee an opportunity to Chairman, Audit Committee share our views on the Groups potential risk areas and Senior independent non-executive director discuss the areas of concern raised by the committee members.
In addition, we were periodically updated bythe Groups internal audit manager on the audits of internal controls, development of the risk management function and other assignments given to internal audit.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 82 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee Activities of the Audit Committee during the year The primary role of the committee is to assist the Board in The committee held eight meetings in 2015 and below is a fulfilling its responsibilities in achieving the Groups strategic summary of the major activities of the committee during the objectives and protecting stakeholder interests.
year, which include: compliance with corporate governance standards, financial reporting, external audit, internal audit, The key areas of responsibility of the committee are internal controls and risk management, significant issues categorised as follows and are described in more detail in and related actions and the committee review.
the committee terms of reference available on the Groups website at www.
co. uk: Compliance with corporate governance standards Nostrums approach to corporate governance is primarily review the Groups annual and interim reports including based on the UK Corporate Governance Code published by financial statements as well as formal announcements of the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the Listing Rules the financial results and other information: of the UK Listing Authority.
review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls As of 31 December 2015, Nostrum complied with all the and risk management systems including impairment principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance testing, by assessing the consistency and clarity of related Code in relation to the work of the committee.
disclosures and conducting operating and financial reviews: The committee held several meetings with the external auditor to discuss the new requirements of the 2014 UK monitor compliance with applicable legal and regulatory Corporate Governance Code relating to the viability requirements and the Groups Code of Conduct: statement.
In addition, the committee gave appropriate attention to the recently emerging risks related to cyber monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: security and participated in the 2015 Cyber Governance Health Check conducted by the UK authorities.
maintain the relationship with the Companys external Nostrum has also established a Group Whistle-blowing auditor and oversee its appointment, remuneration and Policy and has appointed two compliance liaison officers: terms of engagement whilst continually assessing its one Russian-speaking compliance liaison officer based independence and objectivity: and inKazakhstan and a further Dutchand English-speaking review audit findings and assess the standard and compliance liaison officer based in Brussels, to ensure effectiveness of the external audit.
thatall Group employees have access to someone who canprovide them with support and guidance on their The members of the committee during 2015 were: rightsand obligations regarding whistle-blowing.
The Membership AuditCommittee maintains close contact with the Name start date compliance liaison officers.
Eike von der Linden 19 May 2014 Financial reporting Atul Gupta 19 May 2014 While reviewing the draft quarterly and annual financial Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
19 May 2014 statements as well as the Annual Report, the committee focused on challenging: The members of the Audit Committee were selected withthe aim of providing a wide range of financial and WKH FRPSOLDQFH RI WKH DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV DSSOLHG DQG commercial expertise necessary to meet the responsibilities disclosures made with financial reporting standards and of the Committee.
All members of the Committee are relevant corporate governance requirements: considered to have the required recent and relevant WKH VLJQLILFDQW MXGJHPHQWV DQG HVWLPDWHV DSSOLHG E WKH financial experience.
management, which are discussed in more detail in the The committee meets on a quarterly basis or additionally section entitled Significant issues and related actions asand when required.
The chief financial officer and the below: and internal audit manager are also invited to the meetings ZKHWKHU WKH $QQXDO 5HSRUW WDNHQ DV D ZKROH LV IDLU ifregarded necessary together with the external auditor.
balanced and understandable and provides the In addition to these activities, on a monthly basis the information necessary for shareholders to assess the members of the committee are updated by management Groups performance, business model and strategy.
and the internal audit manager on key issues and developments including the status of the Groups strategic initiatives, financial performance, risk management and internal controls.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 83 Audit Committee Report continued Any questions and comments arising from the Committee 19May 2014 based on the recommendation of the and from the external auditor were discussed with committee and upon approval by the Companys Nostrums management at meetings of the committee.
shareholders and re-appointed as an auditor of the Group Subsequently, based on its overall assessment the on 19 May 2015.
MrRichard Addison was appointed as lead committee recommended that the Board approve the audit engagement partner on 19 May 2014 and continued in financial statements and the Annual Report.
this role for the 2015 Group audit.
The committee continuously provides feedback to Given guidance contained under provision C. 3.7 of the management on ways to improve the effectiveness and UKCorporate Governance Code that provides that clarity of the Groups corporate reporting and has companies should put their external audit contract out to encouraged management to support and adopt regulatory tender at least once every ten years together with sustained initiatives that would enhance the Groups reporting.
low oil prices the committee decided to initiate a tender process for the external audit arrangements for the year External audit ending 31 December 2016 to ensure that the Group is During Q4 2015 the Audit Committee reviewed and receiving high quality audit services at the best available discussed the detailed audit plan prepared by Ernst & price.
Several Big4 audit firms as well as one Tier2 audit Young LLP UK which identifies the audit scope and its firmparticipated in the tender process as a result of which assessment of key risks.
The key risks monitored by the itwas concluded that it would be in the best interests of committee correspond with those identified and assessed shareholders to continue engaging Ernst & Young LLP UK by management and the external auditor.
These risks and as the Groups external auditor and on that basis the Board, remediating actions are explained in detail in the section on the recommendation of the committee, will ask entitled Significant issues and related actions below.
All shareholders to approve the re-appointment of Ernst & members of the committee support the application of Young LLP UK as the Groups auditor at the Companys professional scepticism by the Groups external auditor.
During 2015 and 2016 the members of the committee held Non-audit services private meetings with the external auditor, which provided The committee monitors the external auditor to ensure that amutual opportunity for open dialogue and feedback it does not provide non-audit services that are prohibited without management being present.
Topics covered at bythe UK Auditing Practices Board APB, and limits such suchmeetings include: the external auditors assessment services to due diligence services, other assurance services ofsignificant risks and related management actions, and tax compliance and advisory services.
confirmation that there has been no restriction in the scope placed on it by management, the adequacy of the audit In 2015, non-audit fees totalled US$203 thousand 2014: fees, the independence of its audit and how it has exercised US$1,089 thousand, including US$730 thousand for professional scepticism.
servicesrelating to corporate finance transactions and US$40 thousand for tax compliance services including The effectiveness of the external auditor is evaluated by the US$180 thousand 2014: US$319 thousand for quarterly committee each year and takes into account the quality of reviews of the interim financial statements and the work and communication undertaken by the external US$23thousand for other non-audit services.
The Audit auditor and the level of audit fees.
The committee reviewed Committee is satisfied that adequate safeguards to ensure the 2015 H1 interim and 2015 annual auditors reports Ernst & Youngs independence are in place.
The committee giving particular consideration to the audit procedures concurred with the external auditors position that the andfindings in the areas of significant judgements and non-audit services do not impair the external auditors estimates.
The committee also reviewed and discussed the independence.
Groups significant risks identified by the external auditor, and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk The Groups Policy on the provision of non-audit services management framework related to such risks.
by the external auditor was developed on the basis of the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and The committee also reviewed the letter of representation Auditing Practices Boards APB Ethical Standards.
The tobe signed by management in respect of both the interim main principle of the policy is that non-audit services may review and the annual audit.
only be provided by the external auditor where the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence Appointment of external auditor and objectivity and standard supplier selection procedures Ernst & Young LLP Kazakhstan was the auditor of the are carried out.
The following are the main areas covered by predecessor group of companies since 2007, and continued the policy: auditing Zhaikmunai LLP in 2015, while Ernst & Young LLP UK was first appointed as an auditor of the Group on the Groups main principles in relation to non-audit services, Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 84 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures prohibited services the services which must not be The Group plans to enhance the internal audit function provided by the Groups external auditor: byassigning internal resources to support the function provided that all necessary safeguards are considered permissible non-audit services the services which may andrefining the terms of the internal audit charter in be provided by the Groups external auditor to the extent consultation with the committee to ensure that it is effective that they are allowed by the APB Ethical Standards and and meets the requirements of the business.
provided that all necessary safeguards are applied: Internal controls and risk management procedures for the approval of services to be provided by The committee has been focusing on the Groups risk the Groups external auditor, including thresholds for such assessment and management systems.
A comprehensive approvals: financial procedures report dated 20 May 2014 was developed by the Group during the process of its move to safeguards that must be considered for non-audit apremium listing and was reviewed by the committee.
The services: committee established a directors risk register and actively independence requirements, including requirements participates in further enhancing it.
In 2015 the Groups related to hiring employees of the external auditor, riskmanagement policy has been drafted and considerable requirements related to external auditors partner rotation: progress has been made towards further development of and acomprehensive risk matrix, and a dedicated software solution is in process of deployment, which is expected to reporting requirements related to non-audit services.
support the risk management at various levels and locations The policy is available on the Groups website at within the Group.
and will be reviewed and amended as Particular attention is also paid by the committee to the andwhen required.
areas of risk management related to ensuring adequate Internal audit maintenance of accounting records and accurate recording The committee periodically receives reports from the of transactions, which permit the preparation of financial Groups internal audit manager throughout the year.
The statements in accordance with IFRS.
In view of the oil price reports summarise internal audit findings and any action to fluctuation, the committee focused on the review of be taken by management as a result.
impairment testing, going concern and viability statement.
In 2014 the Group developed its internal audit function The Groups system of internal controls is aimed at andhired an internal audit manager.
In connection with this mitigating risks and improving efficiency, and includes but is an internal audit charter has been adopted, which sets not limited to the following: outthe responsibilities of the internal audit function, and corporate governance approach, segregation of athree-year internal audit plan has been developed.
The authorities and duties at various levels: primary role of the internal audit function is to help the Board and executive management to protect the assets, policies and procedures covering various areas, including reputation and sustainability of the organisation.
This is directors remuneration, compliance, accounting and intended to be achieved through: reporting, health, safety and environment, and others as mentioned in the relevant sections of the Annual Report: E XLOGLQJ VWURQJ DQG HIIHFWLYH ULVN DZDUHQHVV ZLWKLQ WKH Group: periodic revision of policies and procedures, and related trainings and internal communications: FRQWLQXRXVO LPSURYLQJ ULVN PDQDJHPHQW DQG FRQWURO processes so that they operate effectively and efficiently constant monitoring by senior management and the and reflect leading practice: and Board of short-term, medium-term and long-term planning and decision-making processes: VKDULQJ EHVW SUDFWLFH ZLWK UHJDUG WR ULVN PDQDJHPHQW andassurance across the Group.
internal audit work and the remedial actions taken by management in response to findings The Group aims to further develop its ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks In the committees view the Group maintains robust and faced by the Group in accordance with the FRCs Internal defensible systems of risk management and internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined controls, and the committee makes recommendations to Code formerly, the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is the senior management on further improvements as and intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure when considered necessary.
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 85 Audit Committee Report continued The Committee review information, training and resources.
Areas of focus for 2015 The committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its arising from the evaluation include monitoring the length performance and effectiveness.
ofcommittee membership and suggestions for further committee training.
Aside from this observation, the In August 2015 the committee used a survey which committee concluded that its mandate and oversight examined governance processes such as the mix of performance were appropriate.
experience and skills amongst members, meeting content, Significant issues and related actions The following are the key risks and issues that the committee focused on during 2015: Significant issues Committee actions Recoverability of non-current assets carrying values The Group performs impairment testing of goodwill on an annual basis The committee reviewed the detailed reports on impairment testing asrequired by IFRS.
Moreover, the continuing fall in market oil prices since prepared by management and challenged the appropriateness of the Q4 2014 was considered an impairment trigger event for oil & gas assets assumptions made.
Areas of focus were the achievability of the business and exploration & evaluation assets.
The impairment testing is subject plans, as well as assumptions in relation to oil prices and discount rates, toapplication of management judgement and various assumptions, which have been subject to volatility given the current macroeconomic underlying the calculation of the value in the use of this single cash conditions.
Special consideration was also given to the sensitivity analysis generating unit, being the achievability of the long-term business plan in relation to these assumptions.
In addition, these assumptions and andthe macroeconomic and related modelling assumptions underlying sensitivity analysis were considered as part of the viability assessment.
has also been one of the main areas of audit focus and Ernst & Young LLP provided detailed reporting on these matters to the committee.
Oil & gas reserves estimation and accounting Oil & gas reserves, which are estimated by the Groups reserve engineers The committee reviewed judgemental aspects of the reserve estimation and audited by the independent reserve engineers, are used to report as part of the Groups annual due diligence process.
In addition, calculatethe depletion of oil & gas assets, and also used as input data itreviewed the reserves analysis paper prepared by the internal audit forimpairment testing models.
Judgements and estimates are used when incooperation with the business development team.
The committee also estimating the oil & gas reserves.
examined the governance framework for the oil & gas reserves process, training for staff and developments in regulations and controls.
Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition in accordance with Incoterms, the The committee has reviewed the Companys policy and controls in relation recognition of revenue on a gross or net basis, and the treatment of to revenue recognition and specifically compliance with the PSA.
discounts are complex areas of accounting.
Related party transactions and disclosures This has been assessed as a significant risk area due to the inherent The committee has been monitoring the procedures in place for the complexity of identifying related parties and the extensive disclosure identification of related parties and ensures that pre-approvals are requirements of IAS 24 regarding related party disclosures as well as obtained before entering into contracts with them.
Also the committee thepast history of significant related party transactions carried out by considered any observations made by the auditor as part of its reporting theGroup.
GTU3 construction and well drilling There are internal and external factors threatening the ability of the Group The construction of GTU3 and the drilling programme continued to be to achieve its strategic objectives such as the construction of GTU3 and oneof the key areas of focus for the committee in 2015, particularly in light thedrilling programme.
These include, but are not limited to, inadequate of the decline in oil prices.
The committee has been reviewing reports project management, supplier delays, availability of financial and other prepared by management and meeting regularly to review and discuss resources and cost overruns.
potential problems and to provide advice on future steps to be taken bythe Group.
Other areas of committee risk focus In addition to the abovementioned significant risks, the committee also paid attention to the following risks areas during 2015: Tax contingencies and compliance with PSA The Group is subject to risks associated with uncertainties surrounding The committee considered management reports setting out the results theapplication of tax laws in Kazakhstan as well as the uncertainties and ofassessments in relation to significant taxes and other contributions to complexities of the calculation of taxes and other obligatory contributions the government.
Having received input from the external auditor and under its production sharing agreement.
As a result, management is challenging decisions made, the committee agreed with managements required to make judgements and estimates in relation to provisioning assessment of the provision to be recognised in respect of taxes and forrelated taxes and contributions.
uncertain tax positions transfer pricing and social commitments and theassociated disclosures.
In addition, the committee continuously monitored that the Groups projected liquidity position accounts for anypotential claims.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 86 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Significant issues Committee actions Provisions and contingencies The recognition of provisions for the future decommissioning of oil & gas The committee reviewed managements reports on the Groups assets at the end of their economic lives requires managements decommissioning, environmental remediation and litigation provisioning, judgement when estimating settlement dates, the scope of work, including key assumptions used, the governance framework applied, technology and legal requirements.
Also the level of provisioning for discount rates and the movement in provisions over time.
contingent and other liabilities is an issue where management and legal judgements are important.
Commercial tests: going concern, viability statement, impairment test The committee considered the reports prepared by management and The determination that the Group will continue on a going concern basis their assumptions and concluded that managements recommendation for the foreseeable future requires management to exercise judgement.
toprepare the accounts on a going concern basis was appropriate.
The viability statement approves the companys robustness under conservative This obligation also applies for the medium term viability statement oil price assumptions and the impairment test evidences the companies and for the long term impairment test.
The committee also considered the external auditors findings on these reports and assumptions.
Derivative financial instruments The estimation of the fair value of derivative financial instruments involves The committee reviewed managements report on the valuation of the use of judgement and estimations in relation to oil price volatilities by derivative financial instruments and the respective disclosures made in both external service providers and management.
In addition, there are thenotes to the financial statements.
The external auditors conclusions risks associated with the complexity of accounting and disclosures related onthe valuation models were also discussed at committee meetings.
Information security risks Given its public nature the Group needs to ensure that its environment is At its quarterly meetings, the Committee pays attention to information sufficiently secure to protect it against the risk of loss or corruption of security related matters and discusses with the management past and sensitive information.
Failure to adequately protect such information could planned actions directed at addressing the recommendations from have a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation and may lead to external consultants.
Also, the Chairman of the committee received timely legal action against the Group.
updates on the risks and responses in the context of the Cyber Governance Health Check carried out by the UK authorities.
Environmental compliance Given the changing nature of environmental regulations in Kazakhstan, As part of the monthly management reports the committee reviewed the there is a risk that the Group will not be in full compliance with all Groups activities to ensure an appropriate level of protection for health, regulations at all times.
The committee has also reviewed the annual report prepared by the independent environmental auditor outlining the Groups compliance and the environmental auditors recommendations forimprovement.
On behalf of the Board Eike von der Linden Chairman, Audit Committee Senior independent non-executive director 29 March 2016 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 87
