Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Report of the Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder There were three areas of focus for the Nomination Committee this year.
The addition of a Board member from the Board of Nicholas Smith, Salamander Energy plc, the search for my successor as Chairman Nomination Committee and the commissioning of a Board Effectiveness Review.
Chairman I am very pleased that Dr Carol Bell joined us in April 2015 and her positive contributions were felt immediately.
Further information Membership and attendance setting out the Chairman succession process run by Ron Blakely The members of the Nomination Committee, together with details and Board Effectiveness Review is given on page 46. of their individual attendance at meetings held during the year The Board has started the process of recruiting two new ended 31 December 2015, are set out below: Non-Executive Directors that will replace Ron Blakely and me, Meeting and both appointments will hopefully be concluded by Committee members attendance December2016.
Nicholas Smith Committee Chairman 3 3 Nick Cooper 3 3 I am also pleased that Tony Rouse has joined the Board as 2 Carol Bell 1 1 ChiefFinancial Officer as per the announcement made on Ronald Blakely 3 3 27January 2016.
Since joining the Company, Tony has 2 Vivien Gibney 1 1 demonstrated financial skill and judgement and I am 1 Lyndon Powell 1 1 confidentthat he will be a valuable addition to the Board.
1 L yndon Powell resigned from the Committee on leaving the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Nicholas Smith 2 Carol Bell and Vivien Gibney were appointed to the Committee on 20 May 2015.
Nomination Committee Chairman On 30 April 2016, Nicholas Smith will retire from the Board and 9 March 2015 asChairman of the Committee.
Bill Schrader has been chosen to succeed him as Chairman of the Company.
Bill Schrader joined the Nomination Committee on 27 January 2016 and will assume the position of Chairman of the Nomination Committee as of 30 April 2016.
The Board considers a majority of the members of the Committee who served during the year to be independent, including the Chairman of the Board, who was independent on appointment.
Role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee During 2015, the Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference to ensure they remained appropriate.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
com about-us corporate-governance boardcommittees nomination and are fully compliant with section B.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Report of the NominationCommittee continued Chairman succession Board composition As reported last year, the Committee led by Ronald Blakely worked The Committee considers that the Board consists of individuals with a global executive search agency, in its search for suitable withthe right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide candidates to succeed Nicholas Smith as Chairman of the Board.
strong and effective leadership of the Company.
The majority of the The global executive search firm has no other connection with Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent Non-Executive theCompany.
Directors, and the Boards collective experience covers a range ofrelevant sectors, as illustrated on pages 40 and 41.
In addition to The Committee undertook a comprehensive search process against possessing a breadth of relevant experience in the oil and gas sector, objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, the Board members have personal experience of working in both including gender.
The role of the global executive search firm was complex organisations and countries relevant to the countries in toprepare a detailed role specification agreed with the Committee which the Company operates.
and the Senior Independent Director, incorporating the expected time commitment and duties to be performed as Chairman of the As part of this years review, the Committee also evaluated the Company.
The following key attributes for the role were identified: levelof financial experience amongst the Board following the restructuring of the Board in 2014 and given the complexity of considerable experience working in the oil and gas sector and theGroup following the corporate acquisitions completed this year.
inparticular, direct experience working in Africa and Asia: Following a detailed assessment, the Committee recommended understanding of capital markets and established relationships that the role of Chief Financial Officer will be elevated to that with the banking community as well as shareholder relations: ofanExecutive Director.
Consequently, Tony Rouse became possessing a comprehensive knowledge and understanding anExecutive Director on 27 January 2016. ofUK corporate governance practices: and having sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities Following the acquisition of Salamander, the changes in the effectively, acknowledging the role to be their primary industryand the upcoming Chairman succession, the Committee commitment.
commissioned an independent Board Effectiveness Review in November 2015 to consider if the current Board skills matched the The search firm produced detailed profiles of prospective industry requirements going forward.
It was agreed that the Chief candidates, which were later reduced to a short-list with briefing Financial Officer position should be elevated and a process to recruit reports reviewed by the Committee.
The candidates identified two new Non-Executive Directors to replace the outgoing Nicholas fromthe search were interviewed by members of the Board.
Smith and Ronald Blakely is underway and is expected to be The Committee consulted with the Companys advisors and received concluded during 2016.
It is anticipated that one of the new feedback from its major shareholders concerning the prospective appointees will become Chairman of the Audit Committee and successor and took detailed references.
Following this rigorous willhold recent and relevant financial experience and competence selection process, the Committee recommended that Bill Schrader inaccounting as required by section C. 3.1 of the Code and section be appointed as successor to Nicholas Smith.
1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, respectively.
the recommendation and it was announced on 27 January 2016 that Bill Schrader would succeed Nicholas Smith as Chairman of theBoard with effect from 30 April 2016.
Bill Schrader met the independence test set out in section B.
1.1 of the Code on appointment and will be able to dedicate the requisite time to the role.
58 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Succession planning The Committee once again assessed succession planning of theExecutive Directors including other members of the senior management team during 2015, in particular, potential internal candidates for senior vacancies which may arise on a crisis, short, medium or long-term basis.
The Committee agrees that the Company has good internal candidates to succeed in more seniorroles as the Company continues to grow.
The formal BoardEvaluation undertaken in 2015 highlighted the increasing importance of succession planning at Board level to ensure the Companys future success and continuity of talent.
Diversity and equality The Board and Nomination Committee are committed to equal opportunities in recruitment and succession planning policies and continue to welcome the current emphasis on diversity in general.
The Company remains dedicated to encouraging diversity at all levels of the business, acknowledging that a more diverse workforce, with the right mix of skills, experience, culture, ethnicity, nationality, gender and knowledge, can make a valuable contribution to the Company.
A statement of the Companys policy on diversity is set out in the Strategic Report on page 37.
The Committee also has due regard to the benefits of diversity onthe Board, including gender, but also takes into account other aspects of diversity to achieve an appropriate balance.
When searching for candidates for Board positions, the Committee will only use the services of those executive search firms which have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms as recommended by Lord Davies Report.
The overriding criterion is always, however, merit.
The Committee stresses that Board appointments are majorly based on the contribution each member brings to the Board and not to merely satisfy any prescribed quota requirements.
As at the date of this report, women constitute 22% of the Board.
The Board hopes to retain or improve this level in the future.
