Board of Directors The Board brings a broad range of skills and experience to theCompany, across the oil and gas industry, commercial andfinancialsectors and capital markets.
Name and title Nicholas Smith Dr Nick Cooper Dr William Bill Higgs Anthony Tony Rouse Ronald Blakely Dr Carol Bell Alan Booth Vivien Gibney William Bill Schrader Chairman of the Board Executive Director & Executive Director & Executive Director & Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tony Rouse joined Ophir Vivien Gibney was appointed Bill Schrader was appointed Biography Nicholas Smith was appointed Dr Nick Cooper was appointed Dr Bill Higgs was appointed Ronald Blakely was appointed Dr Carol Bell was appointed Alan Booth was appointed as as a Non-Executive Director as an Executive Director and as an Executive Director and in October 2014 and was as a Non-Executive Director as a Non-Executive Director a Non-Executive Director in as a Non-Executive as a Non-Executive Director in appointed as an Executive April 2013.
He is the Chairman Director in August 2013.
He is a member in October 2007 and as Chief Executive Officer in June Chief Operating Officer in in July 2011 and as Senior in March 2015.
Carol Bell has Chairman in September 2011.
Nick Cooper is a member September 2014.
Bill Higgs Director in January 2016.
Independent Director over 30 years of experience of the Technical Advisory She is the Chairman of the of the Audit, Corporate Tonyhas over 30 years Committee and member of Remuneration Committee Responsibility and Technical 2009.
He is a member of the of the Nomination Committee.
is a member of the Technical in February 2013.
He is in the energy industry having Remuneration Committee and Prior to joining Ophir, he was Advisory Committee.
He experience in the Upstream Chairman of the Audit enjoyed a successful career the Remuneration, Corporate and member of the Advisory Committees.
Bill oil and gas industry including Responsibility and Audit Corporate Responsibility and Schrader has over 30 years Chairman of the Nomination Chief Financial Officer and has over 25 years of global Committee and a member in the City, most recently as a Committee.
Nicholas Smith co-founder of Salamander exploration, development 13 years of assignments in of the Remuneration and Managing Director of Chase Committees.
experience working at Europe, Africa, Asia and South has 30 years experience in Vivien Gibney has 25 years BP plc, including as Chief trained as a chartered Energy plc.
He began his career and operations experience, Nomination Committees.
Manhattan Banks Global Oil & accountant before joining as a geophysicist with BG and the majority with Chevron America.
Tony started his Ronald Blakely spent over Gas Group.
Carol Bell currently oil and gas exploration at experience as counsel in Executive of several country career with BP, before moving Amerada Hess, Oryx Energy the upstream oil and gas operations, as President of the Jardine Fleming Group, Amoco before joining BoozCorporation.
His roles at 38 years working for Royal sits on the Boards at Petroleum becoming Chief Financial Allen & Hamilton.
From 1999 Chevron included Senior to LASMO plc, Premier Oil and Dutch Shell companies.
Geo-Services ASA, Bonheur ASA and Encana.
Most recently, industry, including roles with the Azerbaijan International most recently Salamander Alan Booth was Founder Mobil Oil and Enterprise Oil Operating Company and as Officer from 1993 to 1997. to 2005, he was a member Vice President of Operations Onhis retirement in October and Ganger Rolf ASA and was He is Chairman of Aberdeen of the oil and gas team at for Saudi Arabia Chevron, Energy plc where he was 2008, he held the role of a Non-Executive Director at and Chief Executive Officer plc.
Whilst at Enterprise Oil, Chief Operating Officer of Group Financial Controller for of EnCore Oil plc and is now Vivien Gibney set up the legal TNK-BP.
In December 2014 New Thai Investment Trust Goldman Sachs.
In September Reservoir Manager for Executive Vice President Salamander Energy plc.
She is plc and Schroder AsiaPacific 2014 Nick Cooper was Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan, nine years.
Tony is a Fellow Global Downstream Finance, also a Non-Executive Director the Founder and Director of department and held the Bill Schrader was appointed Asset Manager for the BBLT of the Chartered Certified EnCounter Oil Ltd. Alan Booth positions of General Counsel, Non-Executive Director of Fund plc and a Director of appointed as Non-Executive while previous roles included of the BlackRock Commodities JPMorgan European Smaller Director of Siccar Point Energy development in Block 14 Accountants FCCA.
CFO of Shell Oil Products in Income Investment Trust plc holds a BSc in Geology from Company Secretary and Head CHC Group Ltd, he is also Angola and General Manager the University of Nottingham of HR.
Vivien Gibney has held Non-Executive Chairman of Companies Trust plc.
Nick Cooper has a the USA and CFO of Shell and sits on the board of Finance Smith will retire from the BSc in Geophysical Sciences for Strategy for Chevron Canada.
Ronald Blakely is Wales, the venture capital arm and MSc.
DIC in Petroleum a number of Non-Executive Bahamas Petroleum Company Corporation.
In his time at Geology from the Royal School Board positions in the plc and Non-Executive Director Board on 30 April 2016. from the University of Leeds, a a member of the Society of of the Welsh Government.
PhD in Exploration Geophysics Chevron he was also a member Management Accountants Carol Bell holds an MA in natural Mines, Imperial College.
voluntary sector and in listed of the Hess Corporation.
of the Corporate Reserves He is a former president of companies.
More recently, Bill Schrader holds a BSc in from the University of Leicester of Alberta, Canada.
sciences from the University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Audit Committee and the of Cambridge and a PhD in the UK Offshore Operators she was a member of the Chemical Engineering from Decision Review Boards for Association UKOOA and Board of Directors of Encore the University of Cincinnati Archaeology from University the Gorgon and Wheatstone College London.
Carol Bell is a currently a director of the Oil plc where she chaired the and an MBA from the LNG developments in Oil and Gas Independents Remuneration Committee.
trustee of the Renewable Energy Australia.
Before joining Foundation a UK think tank, the Association OGIA.
Vivien Gibney is a barrister On 30 April 2016 Bill Schrader Ophir, he was Chief Executive with an LL.
B. and received will succeed Nicholas Smith National Museum of Wales, The Officer of Mediterranean Wales Millennium Centre, The an Honorary Fellowship as Chairman of the Board.
At Oil & Gas plc acquired by in Petroleum law from the that date he will also become British School at Athens, and the Rockhopper Exploration Institute for Archaeometallurgical University of Dundee.
Chairman of the Nomination plc.
Bill Higgs has a BSc in Committee and will step down studies.
She is also a member Geological Sciences from of the S4C Authority and the from the Audit Committee and the University of Leeds and as Chairman of the Corporate Council of Cardiff University.
a PhD in Structural Geology On 30 April 2016 Carol Bell Responsibility Committee from the University of Wales.
will become Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Year appointed 2007 2011 2014 2016 2011 2015 2013 2013 2013 Committee Nomination Chairman, Nomination Technical Advisory Audit Chairman, Audit, Nomination, Technical Advisory Chairman, Remuneration Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Remuneration Nomination, Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, Chairman, Audit, membership Corporate Responsibility Nomination Remuneration, Technical Advisory, Nomination 40 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Other Officers of the Company Philip Laing Position General Counsel & Company Secretary Appointed 2 February 2016 Directors who retired or resigned during reporting period Lyndon Powell Position Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed 10 October 2007 Name and title Nicholas Smith Dr Nick Cooper Dr William Bill Higgs Anthony Tony Rouse Ronald Blakely Dr Carol Bell Alan Booth Vivien Gibney William Bill Schrader Chairman of the Board Executive Director & Executive Director & Executive Director & Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tony Rouse joined Ophir Vivien Gibney was appointed Bill Schrader was appointed Biography Nicholas Smith was appointed Dr Nick Cooper was appointed Dr Bill Higgs was appointed Ronald Blakely was appointed Dr Carol Bell was appointed Alan Booth was appointed as as a Non-Executive Director as an Executive Director and as an Executive Director and in October 2014 and was as a Non-Executive Director as a Non-Executive Director a Non-Executive Director in as a Non-Executive as a Non-Executive Director in appointed as an Executive April 2013.
Year appointed 2007 2011 2014 2016 2011 2015 2013 2013 2013 Committee Nomination Chairman, Nomination Technical Advisory Audit Chairman, Audit, Nomination, Technical Advisory Chairman, Remuneration Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Remuneration Nomination, Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, Chairman, Audit, membership Corporate Responsibility Nomination Remuneration, Technical Advisory, Nomination Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
