Corporate Governance report The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and fully recognises the benefits it bringsto making the best decisions for the Companys future.
Together with the Chief Executive Officer and the General Counsel Leadership &Company Secretary, the Chairman sets the agenda for Board The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the continuing meetings, ensuring that the decision-making process adopted by success of the Company.
To achieve this, the Board provides leadership the Board allows for open and constructive debate.
The Chairman to the business and, either directly or through the operation of its works closely with the Chief Executive Officer, providing support and Committees and by delegating authority, brings an independent adviceas well as ensuring that the strategies and actions agreed judgement on all matters of strategy, performance, risk management, bythe Board are effectively implemented.
resources, standards of conduct and accountability.
The Board also leads in establishing the values and the culture of the Company.
The Chairman was considered to be independent in character andjudgement on his appointment.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved foritsapproval and has delegated other specific responsibilities to Dr Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in June 2011. itsCommittees.
The Board undertook a review of the schedule of He is responsible for managing the day-to-day business of the matters specifically reserved for the Board in November 2015 as part Company, proposing and developing strategy and overall commercial of its annual review process.
The Board concluded that only minor objectives in consultation with the Board and, as leader of a strong amendments were required to those matters: principally to formally and experienced executive team, implementing the decisions of the note that the Board remains responsible for financial hedging Board and its Committees.
Underpinning this, the Chief Executive decisions, approving Group treasury policies and ensuring that Officer is supported by the Executive Committee consisting of the themonitoring of financial and non-financial risks are being Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, in addition appropriately carried out between the Audit Committee and the toother members of the senior management team.
The Directors felt that these changes made to its schedule of reserved matters better reflect Role of the Chairman thesize and complexity of the Companys operations in particular, The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board.
following the acquisitions of Salamander Energy plc and assets from Inparticular, he will: Niko Resources Limited.
cultivate a boardroom culture of honesty and openness which Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Committees of the encourages appropriate debate and challenges amongst the Board, each of which has clear written Terms of Reference.
The Terms Board of Reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility ensure that the Board and its Committees operate in a way that and Nomination Committees are available on the Companys conforms to expected high standards of corporate governance website at www.
set the style and tone of Board discussions, promote constructive debate and ensure an accurate, timely and clear Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer flow of information to the Directors The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive lead the Nomination Committee in the appointment of an Officer are clearly established, separate and have been set out inwriting.
effective and complementary Board, review succession planning and evaluate the performance of the Board, its Committees Nicholas Smith was appointed as Chairman of the Company in andindividual Directors 2009, having been a Non-Executive Director since 2007.
On foster effective Board relationships between the Executive and 30April2016 he will retire as Chairman and will be succeeded by Non-Executive members, support and advise the Chief Executive BillSchrader who has served as an Non-Executive Director since Officer generally and in the implementation of agreed strategy February 2013.
As Chairman, he is responsible for the leadership ensure effective communication with the Companys andeffective running of the Board as well as for ensuring that stakeholders and that their views are understood by the Board.
itplays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Companys strategy.
42 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Non-Executive Directors length of service as at 31 December 2015 03 years 2 36 years 3 6 years 0 Role of the Chief Executive Officer The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day Directors are available for inspection at the registered office during management of the business within the authorities delegated normal business hours.
While the expected time commitment from bythe Board.
In particular, he will: Non-Executive Directors is set out in their letter of appointment as approximately two days per month, plus preparation time, each is propose, develop and supervise the Companys strategy and required to confirm that they are able to devote such time as is overall commercial objectives and ensure that agreed strategies necessary for the satisfactory performance of their duties.
are implemented by the senior management team through the sub-committees of the Executive Committee The Board considers that all its Non-Executive Directors at year end, build and develop an appropriate organisational structure namely Carol Bell, Ronald Blakely, Alan Booth, Vivien Gibney and forthe Company, establish processes and systems and plan BillSchrader, were independent in character and judgement and resourcing to ensure that the Company has the capability free from relationships or circumstances that might affect their toachieve its aims judgement.
Throughout 2015 and up to the date of publication lead the Executive and senior management team including ofthis report, a majority of the Board members, excluding the undertaking appraisals, reviewing development needs and Chairman, were independent Non-Executive Directors.
making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee Dr Carol Bell withregard to remuneration where appropriate Date of appointment: March 2015 promote and conduct the affairs of the Company with the Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 2 years highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance Considered to be independent: Yes progress the Companys communication programme with shareholders and ensure that financial results, business Ronald Blakely strategies and targets are appropriately communicated Date of appointment: July 2011 totheCompanys investors.
Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 5 years Considered to be independent: Yes Non-Executive Directors Alan Booth The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of Date of appointment: April 2013 knowledge from the oil and gas industry together with experience Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 4 years from other sectors to the Board and its Committees.
Through their Considered to be independent: Yes contributions, they provide the Company with independent views on Vivien Gibney matters of strategy, performance, risk and conduct.
Non-Executive Date of appointment: August 2013 Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term, although Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 3 years subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM Considered to be independent: Yes with the expectation that a further three-year term will follow, subject to review by the Board.
Following a second term, William Bill Schrader consideration as to whether a serving independent Non-Executive Date of appointment: February 2013 Director should be recommended for reappointment for a third term Tenure from appointment to 2016 AGM: Less than 4 years is subject to the review of the Chairman in consultation with the Considered to be independent: Yes Chief Executive Officer.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Corporate Governance report continued Senior Independent Director During 2016, the Board expects these areas of focus to remain Ronald Blakely is the Senior Independent Director and was in place broadly similar with the exception of post-acquisition integration.
The Senior Independent Director is charged The Board occasionally holds its meetings overseas.
In November with maintaining a communication channel between the Chairman 2013, the Board visited Tanzania and, in November 2015, following and the Non-Executive Directors and for leading the Non-Executive the Salamander acquisition, the Board held its meeting in Directors in the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who have concerns that have not been, or cannot be, Effectiveness resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Chief Board composition Executive Officer or where such contact is inappropriate.
The specific At 31 December 2015 the Board was composed of the Chairman, terms of the role of the Senior Independent Director have been set two Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
out in writing and approved by the Board.
The following changes to the Board took place during the year Ronald Blakely has notified the Board of his intention not to stand ended 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report: for re-election as a Non-Executive Director of Ophir at the 2017 2 March 2015: Dr Carol Bell was appointed as an Independent AGM, consequently he will be stepping down from his role as Senior Non-Executive Director.
Independent Director, and will retire as a Director, all in the first 20 May 2015: Lyndon Powell retired as an Independent quarter of 2017.
27 January 2016: Tony Rouse was appointed as an Executive Director.
Company Secretary Chandrika Kher was appointed as Company Secretary in March The following changes to the Board will take place after the 2014, having previously been the Deputy Company Secretary publication of this report: sinceOctober 2013.
Philip Laing succeeded Chandrika as Company Secretary on 2 February 2016 and this role is combined with his 30 April 2016 Nicholas Smith will retire as Chairman.
30 April 2016 Bill Schrader will be appointed Chairman.
The Board believes that this balance of Executive and Non-Executive Board activity Directors provides for high quality discussion and consideration Key areas of focus for the Board in 2015 included: ofthe key issues concerning the Company.
strategy The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure that financial performance and budget approval the Directors have the required skills, knowledge and experience assessment and evaluation of production assets tomeet the needs of the business.
risk reviews and assessment prospective acquisitions and new business development Further information on how this is achieved and consideration of post-acquisition integration this in the year, is contained in the Nomination Committee Report governance and Board performance on pages 57 to 59.
Biographical details for each of the Directors who investor feedback and communication served at the end of the year and at the date of this report are set Corporate Responsibility, including health and safety, out on pages 40 and 41. security, environmental and community related projects legal and regulatory compliance employee engagement.
44 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Board composition at 31 December 2015 Board composition at date of publication Non-Executive Chairman 1 Non-Executive Chairman 1 Executive Directors 2 Executive Directors 3 Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 Directors 5 Meeting attendance Board process The Board held six formal meetings during 2015, as well as a meeting Directors are provided with full and timely information before to consider the strategic direction of the business.
In addition, two meetings, including detailed financial and risk management further meetings were called at short notice in order to consider information where applicable.
The Chairman agrees the agenda for specific items of business.
Details of the attendance of all Directors Board meetings in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and who served during the year ended 31 December 2015 at the formal General Counsel & Company Secretary, and formal minutes are and short-notice Board meetings are shown in the table below: prepared to record all decisions made.
Minutes of Board and Committee meetings are formally approved at the following meetings.
In the meantime, draft minutes are circulated to each Scheduled Meetings Board held at Director or Committee member as appropriate and as soon as meetings short notice practicable after the conclusion of the meeting.
Nicholas Smith, Chairman 6 6 2 2 Minutes of Committee meetings may be made available to other Nick Cooper, Chief Executive Officer 6 6 2 2 Board members on request and as appropriate.
If a Director objects Bill Higgs, Chief Operating Officer 6 6 2 2 to a particular proposal, this will be recorded in the minutes of the Carol Bell, Non-Executive Director 2 4 1 2 relevant meeting.
Ronald Blakely, Non-Executive Director 6 6 2 2 Alan Booth, Non-Executive Director 4 6 2 2 In August 2013, the Board approved the establishment of the Vivien Gibney, Non-Executive Director 6 6 2 2 Technical Advisory Committee which would amongst many other Bill Schrader, Non-Executive Director 6 6 2 2 matters consider the technical aspects of any operational business proposals requiring Board approval and advise the Board if there are Former Directors any significant technical risks or concerns that should be taken into 1 Lyndon Powell 4 4 1 1 consideration when considering any such proposals.
The Committee also ensures the technical activities of the Company are consistent 1 Lyndon Powell retired from the Board on 20 May 2015. with the overall strategy of the Company.
The Board recognises that The Non-Executive Directors met with the Chairman four times while the Committee is not a requirement of the Code, nonetheless, during the year, without any Executives present, to discuss the it enhances the Boards ability to approve appropriate business performance of the Executive Directors.
In 2015, the Chairman proposals of a technical nature pertaining to the oil and gas introduced a post-Board meeting review process, whereby the industry.
During the course of 2015, the Committee undertook the performance of the Chairman is discussed, and led by the Senior following: a review of the Companys operating assets, evaluated Independent Director.
new business developments, a review of the Groups reporting onreserves, and acted as technical advisors to the Board.
The Formal quarterly meetings also take place between the Chairman, Committee is comprised of three members and meets at least four the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive Officer.
times a year and as otherwise required.
The Chair of the Committee These meetings focus on governance and operating activities in is Alan Booth and other members are the Chief Operating Officer order to enhance the ability of the Senior Independent Director to and Bill Schrader.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available fulfil the independence mandate of that role and aid communication.
on the Companys website at www.
com about-us corporate-governance board-committees technical-advisory.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Corporate Governance report continued Board Evaluation Insurance and indemnification A full external Board evaluation in relation to Board effectiveness The Company provides its Directors and Officers with the benefit was carried out in November 2015 by Mr Raymond Dinkin of ofappropriate insurance, which is reviewed annually.
This follows full Board appraisals in2012 and Directors and Officers have received an indemnity from the 2014 and a comprehensive appraisal of the Board Committees in Company against a any liability incurred by or attaching to the 2013, all in the context of the appointment of the new Chairman.
Director or Officer in connection with any negligence, default, The aim of the 2015 evaluation was to assess how the Board breach of duty, or breach of trust by them in relation to the currently operates, its focus, capability, behaviours and dynamics, Company or any associated company: and b any other liability and to provide an opportunity to improve how the Board operates incurred by or attaching to the Director or Officer in the actual or inthe future.
purported execution and or discharge of their duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of their powers and or otherwise in Mr Dinkin conducted interviews with each member of the Board, relation to or in connection with their duties, powers or office other theCompany Secretary and members of the Executive Committee.
than certain excluded liabilities including to the extent that such He also attended a full Board meeting as well as a full cycle of anindemnity is not permitted by law.
sub-committee meetings and was furnished with Board minutes and Terms of Reference for each Board Committee and other Appointment, induction and training documentation to facilitate the evaluation.
The anonymity The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate ofallrespondents was ensured throughout the process, in order induction is given to new Board members.
The induction toencourage an open and frank discussion.
The resulting report, programme is specifically tailored to the needs of the incoming including recommendations for action, was then presented to Director and will include training on the business and strategy of theBoard and a series of action items agreed.
theCompany, copies of Board policies and procedures, meetings The principal conclusions from the 2015 Board evaluation were with senior management and site visits, where appropriate.
thatthe Boards effectiveness and governance had continued to Ongoing development and training is provided to Directors at Board improve and the Company is fully compliant with the Combined and Committee meetings.
During 2015 the Directors received Code.
The report made a number of recommendations to improve training on: the effectiveness of the Board, including recommendations relating to strategic stewardship and organisational capability, improving regulatory developments in the UK Listing Rules: thequality ofBoard meetings and Board succession and composition.
regulatory developments on Corporate Governance: These recommendations are being addressed during 2016. insider trading and market abuse: crisis management: Risk management anti-bribery and corruption matters: and The Board believes that effective risk management is crucial to the money laundering.
Companys strategic objectives and long-term success.
The Board The Board and Committees expect to receive regular updates has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is effectively managed.
andbriefings on new legislation and changes to best practice on The Companys approach to risk is further detailed on pages 16 corporate governance including anti-bribery and corruption matters to19.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk from the General Counsel & Company Secretary, the Companys management process on the Boards behalf, and its approach to Auditor and, in terms of Directors remuneration-related matters, thiscan be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 48 to 53. from the Companys Remuneration Consultants.
46 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Independent advice Relations with shareholders All Directors have access to the advice and services of the General Dialogue with shareholders Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has established a The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining procedure whereby anyDirector may take independent professional good relations with all the Companys shareholders.
Nick Cooper, the advice at the Companys expense on any matter in the furtherance Chief Executive Officer, is primarily responsible for investor relations, of their duties.
supported by Executive Directors, senior management and the Investor Relations function.
Over 250 investor meetings and calls Re-election werehosted during the year in Europe, Asia, Africa and North America.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all continuing Directors Additionally, Nicholas Smith, the Chairman, and Ronald Blakely, the of the Company offer themselves for annual re-election at the AGM.
Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman, met with major institutional shareholders during the first quarter of 2016 to External directorships listen to their views on the Companys strategic direction, developments The Company has adopted a policy which allows the Executive since listing and the executive management team.
This process, which Directors to accept directorship of other quoted companies provided was well received by investors and produced positive responses on the that they have obtained the prior permission of the Chairman.
Company and its management team, is ongoing.
Asset out in the Code, no Executive Director would be permitted totake on more than one Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 In addition, the Chairman, with Vivien Gibney, Chairman of the company or the chairmanship of such a company.
Remuneration Committee, met or spoke with principal shareholders and the leading shareholder protection bodies to explain and seek During the year ended 31 December 2015, none of the Companys their support for the proposed new remuneration scheme.
Executive Directors held directorships in any other quoted company.
All financial and regulatory announcements, as well as other Conflicts of interest important business announcements, are published on the Investors Every Director has a duty to avoid a conflict between their personal section of the Companys website and stakeholders can subscribe to interests and those of the Company.
The provisions of Section 175 of receive news updates by email by registering online on the website the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association at www.
permit the Board to authorise situations identified by a Director in which he or she has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that Annual General Meeting conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General continues to undertake regular reviews of the outside positions and Meeting AGM when they are given the opportunity to ask interests or arrangements with third parties held by each Director and, questions on the financial report and accounts and on the general where appropriate, to authorise those situational conflicts following business of theCompany.
Notwithstanding the above, each Director is aware of The 2016 AGM will be held on 10 May 2016 at the offices of their duty to notify the Board should there be any material change to Linklaters LLP, 1 Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
Full details of the their positions or interests during the year.
Directors do not participate business of the AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting and sent in Board discussion or decisions which relate to any matter in which to those shareholders who have elected to receive hard copy they have or may have a conflict of interest.
notifications, together with any related documentation, at least 20clear business days before the date of the meeting in accordance with the requirement of the Code.
The Notice of Meeting together with a copy of the 2015 Annual Report will also be made available at: www.
