Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder In my continuing capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee, Impleased to provide you with my report on the deliberations ofthe Audit Committee during the past year.
Ronald Blakely, The Committee expanded in 2015 with Carol Bell joining Audit Committee Chairman asafourth member.
Carol had previously been a member oftheSalamander Energy Audit Committee and following theacquisition of Salamander Energy, which brought Carol to Membership and attendance theBoard of Ophir, amongst other Committees, Carol joined The members of the Committee, all of whom are independent theAudit Committee.
She has brought to our discussions Non-Executive Directors, together with details of their individual andconsiderations a strong background in capital markets attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December andenergy industry finance as well as her knowledge of 2015, are set out below: theSalamander Energy assets and operations.
Meeting As has been previously highlighted in this report, the past Committee members attendance yearhas been one of significant transition for Ophir with the Ronald Blakely Committee Chairman 3 3 acquisition of Salamander Energy.
This immediately brought 1 Carol Bell 2 2 intofocus several matters for the Audit Committee to consider.
Alan Booth 3 3 Firstly, on an operational level, there was the need to integrate Bill Schrader 3 3 financial reporting systems, which always carries an element of 1 C arol Bell was appointed to the Committee on 20 May 2015 and therefore she was unable to control risk.
As important was the integration of staff functions attend the Committee meeting held prior to her appointment.
This included the closure of the Perth office and transfer of certain Finance activities from Perth to On 30 April 2016 Bill Schrader will step down from the Committee.
boththe London and Bangkok offices.
At corporate level, Aprocess to recruit two new Non-Executive Directors to replace redundant positions were managed as a number of staff exited NicholasSmith and Ronald Blakely has commenced and is expected the organisation.
Again, these discontinuities could raise control tobe concluded during 2016.
It is anticipated that one of the new risks for the organisation.
The Committee reviewed plans and appointees will become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
execution of these transitional activities and by the fourth The Board considers all members of the Committee to be quarter, allchanges had been implemented successfully.
independent and that, as Chairman, Ronald Blakely has recent Several accounting matters also required consideration and andrelevant financial experience and competence in accounting review.
Accounting policies required harmonisation between asrequired by section C. 3.1 of the Code and section 7.1.
Accounting was applied to allocate the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, respectively.
The Chief Executive acquisition costs to the fair value of Salamander Energy assets Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and representatives of the external and liabilities.
The Company produced financial statements Auditor and internal Auditor attend Committee meetings on a forthefirst time including production revenue, along with all regular basis.
The external Auditor also met with the Committee thecomplexities of accounting for Thai taxation, both current onseveral occasions throughout the year without executive and deferred.
48 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Areas of focus in 2015 Financial Reporting including going concern and viability 40% External Audit 19% Risk and Internal Control 20% Internal Audit 17% Other 4% In addition, 2015 was the first year the Company had commercial I would also like to come back to a matter that Ive highlighted reserves and the Committee reviewed both the reporting of the thepast two years in my letter which is that of non-audit fees reserves along with the accounting impacts driven by those reserves toour Auditor, which is an ongoing dilemma for the Committee.
such as DD&A, impairment and decommissioning.
These matters Asa veryproactive  organisation, that leads generated added discussion andreview with our Auditors and toasignificant requirement for accounting support particularly increased the scope of the year-end audit.
related to the production of offering memorandums and for arelatively small organisation, a heavy burden to manage the Lastly, the integrated organisation required a full review of the duplicate activity when the work relates to presentation of riskmatrix to ensure all risks are identified and significant risks financial statements.
In addition, the work invariably takes longer appropriately reviewed by the Board.
to complete when it involves a company that has no history Beyond the acquisition related issues, the Committee considered withthe financials.
For example, when preparing the Offering theareas of major risk and accounting judgement which were Memorandum for Salamander Energy, the Committee weighed acontinuation from prior years.
The most significant being asset upthe work requirements and time lines to produce the document impairments related to unsuccessful drilling programmes and and decided in favour of using EY as the most economic and abandoned assets, and at year-end with the substantially lower efficient use of resources.
The Committee is however conscious oilprice, the carrying value of development and producing assets.
ofthe regulatory direction on non-audit work directed to our The other areas of particular review were the Going Concern review Auditors and will work toward this in future, particularly as specific and the Viability Statement, the results of which for both are guidelines come into effect.
It will be a challenging proposition.
As this was the first year for the Viability This will be my last report to shareholders as Chairman of the Statement, considerable time was given to this requirement.
For succession planning purposes, I have environment of low oil prices, projected by many to endure through notified the Board of my intention not tostand for re-election in a long trough, the Company will remain dependent on asset sales, 2017.
In the course of the next year, the Board will recruit a new joint partnering and, potentially, capital market funding until a Chairman which will allow a full and effective transition.
I shall sustainable business model is fully in place.
Therefore, we felt it depart Ophir with very fond memories of the first six years of wasincumbent on the Board to ensure shareholders fully assess Ophiras a public company.
thelonger-term risks associated with the Companys viability, asoutlined in our disclosure.
Ronald Blakely Audit Committee Chairman Shareholders will also read our commentary on Auditor assessment.
9 March 2016 This past year provided ample opportunity to appraise Auditor effectiveness following the acquisition of Salamander Energy.
It was a challenging period to assume the audit responsibility in a timely manner, which was handled extremely well from planning through toexecution and ultimately to sign off of the year-end accounts.
In addition to the accounting matters, the Committee also receivedand approved an updated Tax Policy for the Company.
Given the concerns raised in public debate related to crossjurisdictional tax matters, the updated Policy provides much clearer linkage between the business model and corporate structure that influence tax transactions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Report of the Audit Committee continued Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee Impairment review During 2015, the Committee reviewed its objectives and A significant area recognised by the Committee as subject to TermsofReference to ensure that they remained appropriate.
management judgement is the determination of impairments TheCommittees full Terms of Reference are available on the ofthe Groups exploration and evaluation assets.
The Committee Companys website at www.
com about-us corporatereceived a report from management on the status of each asset governance board-committees audit and are fully compliant and, along with their technical as well as commercial knowledge and withsection C. 3.2 of the Code.
expertise on the assets, challenged management on their proposed impairment recommendations.
Accordingly, the Committee Financial reporting reviewed each of the Groups assets for impairment in accordance The Committee has the responsibility of assessing the integrity of with IFRS 6 and concluded that full impairment of certain of the the financial statements of the Company on behalf of the Board.
Groups assets was appropriate given the Groups future plans for The Committees approach to achieving this includes ensuring those assets.
appropriate accounting standards are applied, reviewing in depth Additionally, the Committee reviewed the carrying value of the any material areas where accounting judgements have been used Groups remaining assets and either ascertained that, given the and or new accounting policies or procedures have been applied.
Groups future plans the carrying values of those assets were more Inaddition, the Committee reviews and assesses the Annual Report than supported by the underlying fair value of the assets, or that to determine whether it can advise the Board that, taken as a whole, impairment was appropriate.
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides shareholders with the information they need to assess Going concern assessment theCompanys performance, business model and strategy as An important element of review by the Audit Committee is the required by provision C. 1.1 of the Code.
The Committee considers appropriateness of preparing the accounts on a going concern the external Auditors proposed approach to their review of the basis.
The Audit Committee receives a report setting out the going interim results and their audit of the full-year financial statements, concern review undertaken by management which forms the basis toensurethat the scope of the relevant review or audit was of the Boards going concern conclusions.
The Committee also reviewed and discussed the reviewincludes consideration of forecast plans and supporting external Auditors report on the full and half-year financial results assumptions, as well as the options available to the Company for with EY LLP, prior to agreeing to recommend each set of financial obtaining additional funding, such as portfolio management and statements and associated reports to the Board for approval.
As portfolio management is a key strategic activity of the One of the more significant areas of accounting judgement is the Company there is a regular review of the financial impacts and carrying value of capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure flexibility available to the Company.
At both full and half-year, the toensure that expenditure is appropriately expensed to the P&L, Committee agreed that the Companys financial position was such should impairments arise.
Impairment reviews are undertaken bythe that it continued to be appropriate for the accounts to be prepared Company in accordance with IFRS 6 and assessed by the Committee.
If necessary, the Committee can receive advice from the Technical Advisory Committee.
The external Auditor also reportson this most prominent area of accounting risk to the Audit Committee and the Committee has been satisfied that exploration has been treated in thecorrect and consistent way in the financial statements.
50 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information The Company adds value through its ability to find, develop and During the year ended 31 December 2015 the Company committed eventually monetise early stage oil and gas exploration assets, expenditure of $1,088,650 on audit services 2014: $411,000, an which invariably are non-revenue generating.
It follows from this increase of $677,650 due to the additional audit and audit related that the principal focus of the Audit Committee, when considering work required post acquisition of Salamander Energy plc and the the financial reporting of the Company, is to ensure that the introduction of producing assets into the Group.
In addition, the exploration expenditure commitments of the Company are Company committed expenditure of $1,127,910 on non-audit work appropriately funded.
This results in major focus being placed 2014: $601,000.
The non-audit work undertaken by EY related onforward spending plans and working capital models as much toaudit-related assurance services and corporate finance services asretrospective scrutiny offinancial reporting.
Prior to approving and these fees were reviewed and approved by the Committee thefull-year financial statements for 2015, the Audit Committee under the terms of the policy.
Further details as to the nature of the considered the Companys forward plans for fund raising and services provided are set out in Note 8 to the consolidated financial drillingcommitments being the most significant forward financial statements.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of commitments that the Company makes as part of its assessment of appointment of EY as Auditor to the Company.
the going concern basis of preparation of the 2015 Accounts further detail on the going concern statement is set out on page 63.
Effectiveness of external Auditor To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Viability Statement external Auditor provides information on the steps they have taken The Financial Reporting Council FRC has revised the Code to to ensure objectivity and independence, including in relation to include a Viability Statement and the Companys full Statement theprovision of any non-audit services.
The Committee monitors canbe found on page 16 of the Strategic Report.
the external Auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, and this informs the Committees External Auditor decision on whether or not they should recommend reappointment The Committee has approved the Companys policy governing the on an annual basis.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the Auditor with the Companys audit partner at EY, apart from formal and their associates.
The policy clearly identifies permitted and scheduled meetings, between three to four times during the year prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be followed for the todiscuss matters of process, relationships between the country approval of all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements with audit teams as well as review of plans and completion progress.
an expected fee in excess of $100,000 require the prior approval ofthe Committee.
The Committee reviews statements on the Re-appointment of external Auditor independence and objectivity of the external Auditor at least twice The Committee has reviewed the independence and effectiveness a year in order to satisfy itself that independence and objectivity of EY and is satisfied they have remained independent throughout have been met.
The Committee is satisfied that there are no the year.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that the relationships between the Company and the Auditor, its employees re-appointment of EY as the Companys Auditor is proposed to or its affiliates that may reasonably be thought to impair the shareholders at the AGM in May 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Report of the Audit Committee continued Internal audit Risk management and internal controls Mazars LLP remained appointed as the Companys internal The Board has delegated its responsibility for monitoring the Auditorsduring the period under review.
Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis to the Committee.
To ensure the continued effectiveness of the function, the Committee reviewed and approved the 2015 Internal Audit Plan.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to safeguard the Companys assets and to ensure the reliability of financial Key actions undertaken by Mazars LLP during 2015 included information for internal and external use.
Any system of control thefollowing: canprovide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that assets review and control testing of a new accounting system aresafeguarded, transactions are correctly authorised and recorded implemented during the year: and that any material errors and irregularities are detected within review of the payroll system function: areasonable time frame.
The Companys internal controls are review of processes and control surrounding the Treasury therefore designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, risk, function: recognising that not all risks can be eliminated and the cost of key assets visits to Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania focusing control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
oninternal controls: and The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the evaluated the authorisation processes and controls relating Companys system of internal controls which covers financial, toJoint Venture and Production Sharing Contracts.
operational and risk management processes.
Lines of responsibility Key actions to be undertaken as part of the internal audit plan have been clearly defined and a delegated authority schedule scheduled for 2016 include: approved and implemented.
The Committee considers the draft papers prepared for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk reviewing the Groups governance and controls around tax management procedures adopted by the Company prior to being accounting to ensure compliance against regulatory standards submitted to the Board for approval.
and internal policies: an assessment of the Companys processes and controls The Company operates a risk management process under which aroundcyber security and the mitigating factors used to significant risks are identified, their likelihood and impact considered preventa cyber attack: and actions taken to manage those risks.
The Committee also asset visits to Indonesia to assess the overall risk management receives regular updates on operational risks from the Corporate and reporting controls that have been deployed around key Responsibility Committee.
The Committee reviews the Companys assets in the area: and risks every six months prior to a Board review, from which particular reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and control risks may be identified for further detailed presentation and across the Group.
discussion at the Board meetings.
In particular, during 2015 the Committee met with the Executives Directors and the senior The findings from the review will be followed up during 2016 management team responsible for evaluating new country risks in andreported to the Audit Committee.
particular in Southeast Asia immediately following the acquisition ofSalamander Energy plc and assets from Niko Resources Limited.
The Committee also undertook a review of the policies relating to internal controls for both entities and developed an action plan to amalgamate these with the Companys existing policies to better streamline the Companys risk management structure.
52 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information The principal risks identified by the Company are set out on pages The Ethical Compliance processes introduce an enhanced 16 to 19. requirement for Anti-Corruption Reporting, for example any third party request for a facilitation payment is reported to a designated The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control compliance function who address the matter.
Further, there is systems in operation during the financial year and, where necessary clearer guidance around seeking corporate approvals for gifts and and appropriate, action has been taken to remedy any identified hospitality given and received and the declaration of employee failings or weaknesses.
The following illustrates how the risk conflicts of interest.
Gifts and Hospitality, Conflict of Interest and management process and the system of internal control operated Anti-Corruption Reporting Registers are maintained by assets during 2015: andfunctions and monitored by the Compliance function.
Matter Action Due diligence on third parties including intermediaries, suppliers, Schedule of Management had undertaken its annual prospective business partners and social investment counterdelegated review of the Groups delegation of authority.
partiesis supported by a set of improved processes enabling authority Appropriate modifications and improvements earlyidentification of red flags and appropriate risk management to the authority levels were made to reflect the measures to be applied prior to contract award, contract execution Groups current operations.
and during the life of any contract.
A rolling staff Ethical Compliance Year-end A formal process exists for year-end risk training programme is also in place to raise awareness and compliance management compliance reporting, requiring the Executive Directors together with the understanding of the application of the Code, the Policy and senior management team to confirm their theStandards.
responsibilities for risk management and internal control.
Ultimate compliance reporting The Company is committed to the highest standards of business is required from each Board member.
conduct and has adopted a whistleblowing hotline to support the Treasury and A formal review of the various treasury and finance achievement of this goal.
All Company staff are encouraged to raise Finance policies policies and procedures to ensure consistency across concerns with their line manager initially, or General Counsel & and procedures the Group in particular, following the acquisitions Company Secretary, Ronald Blakely, or the Director of HR.
Concerns of Salamander Energy plc and assets from Niko are carefully considered in order to decide what action, if any, should Resources Limited.
For those who do not wish to raise a concern within the Company, they may report it through Safecall, an independent Anti-bribery and whistleblowing company which provides an alternative method of reporting In 2015 Ophir materially strengthened its ethical compliance concerns, using specially trained calloperators.
The service is processes to reflect changes to the corporate risk profile and scope available 24 7 for all staff as well asbusiness partners.
It also of our activities.
Ophir has revised its Code of Conduct clearly allowsfor anonymous reporting.
TheCompany will not tolerate defining its expectations of staff and key stakeholders in relation anyretaliation or victimisation against anyone who has raised tobusiness integrity.
The Code of Conduct has been supplemented by the introduction During the year ended 31 December 2015, no whistleblowing ofenhanced Ethical Compliance processes notably, a revised issueswere raised.
Anti-Corruption Policy the Policy and a suite of personal conduct Standards the Standards observance of which is mandatory for allstaff who are required to confirm at the start of each calendar year that, in relation to the prior year, they complied with the Policyand the Standards.
