GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT On behalf of the audit committee, I am pleased to present our the accounting treatment of the Mobile and Online business report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
During the year, the and transferring the book value of that asset to be classified as audit committee has continued to focus on risk management for an asset held for sale.
the group and the integrity of the groups financial reporting, including both the internal and external audit processes.
The The significant issues considered by the committee in relation committee will continue to keep its activities under review in to the 2015 accounts, and how these were addressed, were: line with regulatory and market developments.
Goodwill impairment and disclosure: The audit committee comprises Eric Anstee, Neil Carson The judgements in relation to the impairment of goodwill largely appointed 23 July 2014 and Stephen Rowley.
Nick Wiles, who relate to the value in use of the businesses acquired.
Forecasts was a member of the committee during the year, ceased to be a used for the valuations are consistent with those prepared for member of the committee on his appointment as non-executive business planning purposes, including the setting of targets Chairman of the board on 8 May 2015.
Gill Barr has agreed for management incentives.
The committee scrutinised these to join the committee on 1 June 2015.
Andrew Robb retired forecasts and challenged the assumptions with management.
from the committee and the board at the 2014 annual general The forecasts include targets for the sale of new products and meeting.
The board considers Eric Anstee, who is Chairman services to new clients, over which there is inherent uncertainty.
of the audit committee, to have recent and relevant financial In addition, the committee received extensive reports from the experience in accordance with the Code.
Full biographical auditors on these valuations.
Sensitivity analysis was performed details of each of the current committee members, including to understand whether the headroom the amount by which relevant financial experience, are set out on page 23. the value in use would have to fall to cause impairment was adequate and proper disclosure was made in the The key responsibilities of the audit committee are as follows: financial statements.
monitoring that the financial performance of the group is Revenue recognition: properly measured and reported: We reviewed the recognition of income to ensure that reporting to the board on the appropriateness of the the approach adopted is appropriate and consistent.
Most of significant accounting policies and practices of the group: the groups revenue was transaction-based and recognised on considering and making recommendations to the board on the basis of completed transactions.
We challenged the basis the nature and extent of the significant risk the group is of non-transaction based recognition, where judgement willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives: was applied.
The committee also received reports from the overseeing the relationship with the external auditor and the auditors on income recognition which it discussed with them.
quality of the internal and external audit processes: reviewing the internal financial controls and internal control Taxation: and risk management systems of the group: Judgement on taxation included the recognition of losses.
There monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the were brought forward losses at the start of last year available arrangements for internal audit, including its remit and for offsetting profit in the year and future years.
The audit programme and ensuring that it is adequately resourced: and committee considered the losses, any time restrictions for their advising the board on whether the committee believes use and the financial forecasts prepared by management and the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, managements views on the potential use of such losses and balanced and understandable and provides sufficient those it would be appropriate to recognise in the period under information to enable shareholders to assess the groups review.
The committee also received reports from the auditors performance, business model and strategy.
and discussed the recognition of losses with them.
The committee continued to keep its activities under review in Balance sheet presentation of Mobile and Online: the light of regulatory and market developments and met six We considered the position of this sale process as at times during the period.
All members were in attendance at all 31 March 2015 and the appropriate accounting treatment of the meetings.
By invitation, during the year, meetings were for the disposal group in relation to the guidance detailed in also attended by the Chairman and non-executive directors, the IFRS 5.
The committee satisfied itself that the presentation of Chief Executive, Finance Director, Business Development Director the disposal as an asset held for sale at its carrying value, but and the Group Financial Controller, our external auditor, Deloitte not a discontinued operation, was appropriate.
The value in LLP and internal auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, as appropriate.
use and independent valuation of these assets held for resale are in excess of their carrying value in the balance sheet, but In order to maximise its effectiveness and as part of the process there is no guarantee that the net sale proceeds will match of working with the board, the committee meetings generally the valuations.
took place on the same day as, but prior to, the company board meetings.
Where all the board members were not in attendance External audit at an audit committee meeting, either as a member of the Deloitte LLP has been the external auditor for the group since committee or by invitation, the Chairman of the committee 2001 following a formal tender process.
The appointment of reported to the board as part of a separate agenda item, on Deloitte LLP as external auditor, including the rotation of the the activity of the committee.
audit partner, is kept under annual review.
Edward Hanson completed his five year term following the current year end In contemplation of its key responsibilities, during the period, and is to be replaced by Hadleigh Shekle.
An annual review the committee: reviewed reports from the auditor relating to the of the effectiveness of the external audit is undertaken by groups accounting and internal controls: advised the board on the committee.
the appointment, performance, independence and objectivity of the auditor and the internal auditor: reviewed the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control, including fraud prevention: reviewed the appropriateness of the internal audit programme and the reports of the internal auditors and other independent audits by clients, LINK and BSI.
In addition it has considered the decision by the board to undertake a review of PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 21 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Risk management and internal control The effectiveness of the audit process is underpinned by The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate audit planning and risk identification at the outset the groups system of internal control, and for regularly of the audit cycle.
The auditor provides a detailed audit plan reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed identifying its assessment of the risks and other key matters to meet the particular needs of the group and its risks, for review.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, the primary safeguarding shareholders investments and the companys risks identified were goodwill impairment, revenue recognition, assets.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than taxation and the balance sheet value of Mobile and Online.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and The committee reviewed and challenged the work undertaken can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against by the auditor to test managements assumptions on these material misstatement or loss.
There is an on-going process of matters.
An assessment of the effectiveness of the audit identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced process in addressing these items was performed through the by the group.
reporting received from the auditor at the half-year and year end.
The committee sought feedback from management on the All procedures necessary to comply with the FRCs Internal effectiveness of the audit process.
No significant issues were Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code raised with respect to the audit process for the period and the were in place throughout the period under review and up to the quality of the audit process was assessed to be good.
date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The directors conducted a formal review of the effectiveness The audit committee met the external auditor without the of the groups system of internal control during the period.
executive directors being present and procedures were in place, No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during which allowed access at any time of both external and internal the review.
auditor to the audit committee.
I reported the outcome of each meeting to the board.
The operational management of the group is delegated to senior managers who are appointed by the Chief Executive.
The committees assessment of the external auditors The responsibilities of the senior management group include performance and independence, if satisfactory, underpins the regular review of the main business risks to the group.
its recommendation to the board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor.
Based on The group has prepared a detailed risk register which includes the committees assessment, the committee provided the analysis of all the main operational risks covering all parts of board with its recommendation to the shareholders on the the groups business activities, including financial risks.
The re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor for the year group evaluates and prioritises the identified key operational ending 31 March 2016.
There are no contractual obligations risks.
In order to ensure that this process is managed effectively, restricting the committees choice of auditor.
A resolution responsibility for each key risk area is assigned to a member for re-appointment of the auditor will be proposed at the of senior management, who must confirm in writing that the forthcoming annual general meeting, the notice for which potential threats in each area have been properly identified and can be found on pages 67 to 70. recorded and the appropriate action taken to mitigate risks so far as possible.
This process has been fully embedded into the Non-audit services operations of the business.
During the year, the audit committee The committee considered the level of non-audit fees for received regular updates on the on-going risk management, services provided by the auditor in order to satisfy itself that control systems and processes which were discussed at auditor independence is safeguarded.
The group has a policy their meetings.
which prohibits the auditor providing certain services which might impair its independence.
The committee monitored Internal audit compliance with the policy safeguarding the independence The audit committee is responsible for approving a rigorous of the external auditor.
The policy also prescribes that any internal audit programme covering all the groups key business non-audit services to be performed by the auditor in any areas.
The current programme was approved in March 2014 and one year excluding tax are to be provisionally capped at an each year the programme is reviewed to ensure that account aggregate total equivalent to the level of the annual audit fee.
is taken, where necessary, of any change.
During the period, Any proposal to use the auditor for non-audit services exceeding Grant Thornton UK LLP provided internal audit services to the this is subject to the prior approval of the audit committee.
In company as directed by the audit committee, in accordance determining the most appropriate provider of non-audit services, with the approved internal audit plan.
They executed a the committee considers the knowledge and expertise of the programme of testing designed to assess and report on potential providers and the proposed costs.
Non-audit services the adequacy, reliability and effectiveness of the design and are only undertaken by the auditor where it is deemed to be the operation of the relevant accounting, financial and business preferred provider and the provision of services poses no threat control systems implemented by management and reported to its independence.
In this context, Deloitte was appointed, the results to the audit committee.
following a competitive tender, to advise on the proposed sale of our parking and online payment processing businesses.
Tenders were invited from five parties recommended by Eric Anstee our independent financial advisor.
The Deloitte bid was the Chairman, audit committee best on both quality and cost out of the submitted tenders.
Consequently Deloitte was appointed as advisor for the proposed sale.
Details of the remuneration paid to the auditor for the statutory audit and non-audit services, which normally are limited to assurance and tax advice, are set out in note 5.
