GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate The directors believe it is essential for the company to be led and governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature controlled by an effective board which monitors progress through of the company.
The company has complied with the revised monthly reports and management accounts.
The board has a version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The most significant as issued by the Financial Reporting Council for the year of these are the approval of: ended 31 March 2015, a copy of which can be found at www.
cfm corporate strategy of the group and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: This statement describes how the principles of corporate the appointment of the Chief Executive, other directors governance in the Code are applied by the company.
and the Company Secretary: major capital investments: annual and half yearly financial statements: The board interim management statements: and The board comprises nine directors: Nick Wiles, the acquisitions and disposals.
non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, Dominic Taylor, George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees, and five non-executive The board met nine times during the year and all meetings directors, Eric Anstee, David Morrison, Stephen Rowley, Neil were attended by all board members in office at the relevant Carson and Gill Barr who has agreed to join on 1 June 2015. time except that David Newlands, Andrew Robb, Nick Wiles Neil Carson, who was appointed to the board immediately and Eric Anstee were each unable to attend one meeting.
following the annual general meeting on 23 July 2014, is Where a director is unable to attend, he provides input through Senior Independent Director.
discussion with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Nick Wiles was appointed as Chairman on 8 May 2015 following In line with the commitment made to shareholders last year, Warren Tuckers decision to step down.
Prior to his appointment an external evaluation of the board took place during the year.
as non-executive Chairman, Nick Wiles served as an independent The board recognise the importance of good governance and non-executive director on the board for over five years.
Further wish to continue to meet the revised Code provisions and to information regarding the appointment of the Chairman can ensure sensible adherence to governance rules and disciplines be found in the succession planning section of this report on appropriate for a FTSE 250 company.
The evaluation was page 20. facilitated by Sheena Crane under the direction of Warren Tucker and involved a thorough evaluation of the board and its The board considers that Gill Barr, Neil Carson, Eric Anstee committees.
Sheena Crane attended the board and committee and Stephen Rowley are independent for the purposes of the meetings in September and November 2014, reviewed the Code.
Nick Wiles met the Code Independence Criteria on associated papers for those meetings and conducted interviews his appointment.
with the Company Secretary and each of the directors in office at the time, except Neil Carson who had only recently been The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and appointed.
The results of the evaluation, including feedback ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The board from the individual interviews, were discussed by the board is comprised of an appropriate balance of skills, experience, at its November meeting.
The evaluation report was independence and knowledge, which enables it to discharge its complimentary of the board and its overall performance.
The balance of independence creates The report made some recommendations for areas requiring an environment that encourages the effective challenge and improvement, including diversity, which the board have acted development of proposals on strategy.
All the non-executive upon, whilst acknowledging that further modernisation should directors bring considerable knowledge and experience to board be made over an appropriate timescale.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys share schemes or bonus schemes and their service Eric Anstee will retire at the 2015 annual general meeting.
The balance and independence of the board Every other member of the board will offer himself for is kept under review by the nominations committee.
The boards recommendations in respect of the re-election of each director can be found in the Biographical details of each of the current serving directors are set notice of meeting on pages 67 to 70. out on page 23.
Procedures exist to allow the directors to seek independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the The Chief Executive proactively manages succession planning companys expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
All for the executives and senior management team and keeps directors have access to the Company Secretary.
the board updated on developments as necessary.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors and the executive directors service contracts are Conflicts of interest available for inspection at the companys registered office Under the articles of association, the board has authority to during normal business hours and will be available at the approve any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that are annual general meeting.
declared by individual directors: conditions may be attached to such approvals and directors will generally not be entitled The Chairman chairs board meetings and regularly consults with to participate in discussions or vote on matters in which they the executive directors regarding on-going business.
His other have or may have a conflict of interest.
significant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 23.
The board considers that these commitments do not hinder A register of conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at least his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the company and its annually to ensure all details are kept up to date.
Authorisation subsidiaries the group effectively.
is sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if any new conflicts arise.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 19 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE continued The nomination committee puts particular emphasis on the Shareholder relations importance of sourcing candidates appropriately widely so The directors consider that the annual report and accounts that shortlisted candidates reflect the desire for increased play an important role in providing shareholders with an diversity, in line with the boards objectives as stated above.
evaluation of the companys position and prospects.
The board In order to assist the board in achieving its commitment, the aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all nomination committee ensures that only independent executive shareholders.
The board acknowledges the importance of an search firms, which subscribe to the Voluntary Code of Conduct open dialogue with its institutional shareholders and welcomes for Executive Search Firms, are commissioned in respect of correspondence from private investors.
We believe that, in addition to the annual report and the All board appointments are made on merit, in the context of companys website, the annual general meeting is an ideal balance of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge forum at which to communicate with investors, and the board which the board as a whole requires to be effective, taking encourages their participation.
The Senior Independent Director account of diversity in the manner described above.
is available to address any unresolved shareholder concerns.
Further details on diversity throughout the group including The company held briefings with institutional fund managers, information about the diversity and equality policy that applies analysts and other investors following the announcement of to PayPoint employees can be found on pages 17 and 18. half yearly results and feedback from these has been reported to the board.
Meetings have been held at other times during the period when appropriate.
Succession planning Nick Wiles was appointed as non-executive Chairman on 8 May 2015.
The committee decided not to commission an Committees of the board external search, following the decision of Warren Tucker to The following formally constituted committees deal with specific step down.
Having served as an independent non-executive aspects of the groups affairs in accordance with the duties and director on the board for over five years, Nick Wiles responsibilities formally delegated to them by the board.
The longstanding and deep knowledge of the group made terms of reference for each of the committees are available on him the strongest candidate for the role and the board the companys website at www.
was unanimous in his appointment.
Nomination committee During the year, an external search was commissioned, using The nomination committee comprises Eric Anstee, Neil Carson an independent executive search firm, Egon Zehnder, which has appointed 23 July 2014, Stephen Rowley, David Morrison and no other connection with the company, to search for a nonNick Wiles committee Chairman.
It met five times during the executive director, who would also act as Senior Independent period and all members in office at the Director and remuneration committee Chairman, pending the relevant time were in attendance except that Eric Anstee retirement of Andrew Robb from the board at the 2014 and Nick Wiles were each unable to attend one meeting.
Neil Carson was identified as the Nick Wiles succeeded Warren Tucker as Chairman of the best candidate for the role and was subsequently recommended committee on 8 May 2015.
Gill Barr has agreed to join the to the board by the nomination committee on the basis that committee on 1 June 2015. he met the desired criteria.
The committee is responsible for considering and making Egon Zehnder were also commissioned to search for a nonrecommendations on the appointment of additional directors, executive director with relevant skills in retail.
Gill Barr met all the retirement of existing directors and for reviewing the size, the criteria deemed necessary for the role and, following the structure and composition of the board and membership year end, was recommended to the board by the nomination of board committees, which are considered against committee and has agreed to join the board on 1 June 2015. objective criteria.
Since the year end, the committee has commissioned Spencer The committee considers the need for progressive refreshment Stuart to search for an independent, non-executive director and keeps the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and to replace Eric Anstee as Chairman of the audit committee.
experience of the board under review.
During considerations Eric Anstee will retire from the board at the 2015 annual on the appointment and retention of non-executive directors, general meeting after seven years.
The search process is being the committee has regard to the need for particularly rigorous conducted in line with the appropriate guidelines on diversity.
review and the need to progressively refresh the board where terms of appointment are beyond six years.
The Senior Independent Director chaired discussions relating to succession planning for the Chairman, in which the Chairman Diversity policy did not take part.
The board embraces the supporting principles enshrined in the Code relating to board diversity, including gender.
Remuneration committee The role and composition of the remuneration committee The board is committed to ensuring an appropriate balance of and details of how the company applies the principles of the skills, knowledge and experience on its board and fully supports Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out in the the Department of Business Innovation & Skills objective for remuneration committee report on pages 26 to 40.
FTSE 350 boards to have an appropriate female presence by 2015.
Diversity is a vital part of the continued assessment and enhancement of board composition and the board recognises the benefits of diversity amongst its members.
The board takes account of all aspects of diversity in its considerations including, but not limited to gender, industry experience, background and race.
