Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 83 conducted a number of deep dives into selected The committee reviewed the overall H&S landscape at principal risks.
Learn more about Principal risks and Pearson, in particular evaluating the progress made uncertainties on p41-45 since the launch of the global H&S policy in December 2013.
It noted that continued improvements are being Data security and data privacy implemented in standards, facilitated by the support Recognising particular sensitivities around the schools of H&S coordinators, and was satis ed with the and assessment data held on our systems, the developments in relation to safeguarding and the committee undertook deep dives in each of these risk progress that the safeguarding o cer has made since areas, and updates from the chief information security appointment in August 2014. o cer and newly-appointed chief privacy o cer feature as regular items on the committees agenda.
To ensure The committee reviewed the ongoing implementation of adequate visibility of data security and privacy protocols ABC policies, where progress to date has been good, and throughout the company, new policies and procedures noted that a more comprehensive and risk-based ABC were developed during the year, including the training programme would continue to be rolled out in introduction of mandatory data security and privacy 2016.
We also considered how the compliance and legal training for employees.
functions were working together to ensure appropriate stances in each jurisdiction, while maintaining Pearsons Focusing on data security, the committee considered zero tolerance approach to ABC.
progress made to date and reviewed the roadmap for the next two years, including the aim of continuing Audit committee meetings and activities to increase Pearsons data security risk maturity.
The committee met four times during the year with Key to developing this maturity has been the shift the following in attendance: the chief financial o cer: of data security from a purely technical risk to a general counsel: SVP internal audit and compliance: business critical one.
members of the senior management team: and the The risk management framework around data privacy external auditors.
Additionally, the chief executive and needs to take Pearsons global footprint into account.
chairman periodically attended committee meetings.
Challenges exist in North America due to the large One of the internal audit directors and the VP compliance number of federal and state laws on data privacy, and risk assurance also attend meetings, giving the which are coupled with a changing picture globally committee direct contact with key leadership in those as jurisdictions update their laws in a fast moving areas.
The committee also met regularly in private environment.
Data privacy has been identi ed as with the external auditors and the SVP internal audit a global strategic risk for Pearson, leading to the and compliance.
appointment of a chief privacy o cer at the start of At every meeting, the committee considered reports 2015.
Meaningful progress has been made since that on the activities of the internal audit and compliance appointment, including the development of a new functions, including the results of internal audits, risk governance framework to address data privacy risks.
reviews, project assurance reviews and fraud and Business transformation whistleblowing reports.
The committee also monitored Ongoing business transformation, the next wave of the companys financial reporting, internal controls and which was announced in January 2016, is another of risk management procedures, reviewed the non-audit Pearsons key risks and opportunities.
The committee services provided by PwC and considered any signi cant receives regular updates on the transformation as a legal claims and regulatory issues in the context of their whole and during the year carried out a deep dive into impact on financial reporting.
As an important operational Learn more about the Key activities of the audit simpli cation project, The Enabling Program will feature committee on p84 as a standing item on the committees agenda in 2016 as work progresses.
Learn more about The Enabling Program on p6 and 41 Update on previous areas of focus Last year, we highlighted health and safety H&S and Tim Score anti-bribery and corruption ABC as areas to which the Chairman of audit committee committee had paid particular attention.
During 2015, the committee continued to monitor those areas, reviewing progress made and audit results.
