88 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Risk governance and control Control environment The results of risk assessments and reviews are reported to the Pearson executive, the board and the audit The board of directors has overall responsibility for committee.
For example, in 2015, all identi ed PearsonPearsons systems of internal control and risk wide top risks were reviewed by executive management, management, which are designed to manage, and then by the board and audit committee on a semi-annual where possible mitigate, the risks facing Pearson, basis.
In addition, throughout the year, the audit safeguard assets and provide reasonable, but not committee considered the oversight of speci c selected absolute, assurance against material financial principal risks, through a series of risk deep dives.
The directors con rm they have internal audit plan is also aligned to our greatest areas of conducted a review of the e ectiveness of Pearsons risk and the audit committee considers issues and risks systems of risk management and internal control in arising from internal audits.
accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the Code and the FRCs Code Guidance.
These systems have been The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed operating throughout the year and to the date of to provide the board with a consistent, Pearson-wide this report.
perspective of the key risks.
The reports to the board, which are submitted twice per year, include an Responsibility for monitoring the e ectiveness of the assessment of the probability and impact of risks companys risk management and internal control materialising, as well as risk mitigation initiatives and systems has been delegated to the audit committee their e ectiveness.
At each meeting, the audit committee considers reports from management, internal audit Learn more about our risk management process, the and the external auditors, with the aim of reviewing principal risks and mitigating factors on p38-45 the e ectiveness of the internal financial and operating Financial management and reporting control environment.
There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting Each business area, including the corporate centre, and forecasting system with an annual operating plan maintains internal controls and procedures appropriate approved by the board of directors.
Monthly financial to its structure, business environment and risk information, including trading results, balance sheets, assessment, while complying with company-wide cash ow statements, capital expenditures and policies, standards and guidelines.
indebtedness, is reported against the corresponding Internal control and risk management gures for the plan and prior years, with corrective action outlined by the appropriate senior executive.
Our internal controls and risk oversight have been Pearsons senior management meet periodically with reviewed as a result of the FRC Guidance and changes business area management to review their business made to ensure compliance.
These changes include and financial performance against plan and forecast.
more robust executive ownership and assessment of Major risks relevant to each business area as well as controls and PLC risks as well as the preparation of a performance against the stated financial and strategic viability statement.
objectives are reviewed in these meetings.
The board, assisted by the assurance the audit We have an ongoing process to monitor the risks and committee provides, oversees the enterprise risk e ectiveness of controls in relation to the financial management ERM framework, risk appetite validation reporting and consolidation process including the and viability statement veri cation processes outlined related information systems.
This includes up-to-date in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on p41.
Pearson financial policies, formal requirements for Day-to-day enterprise risk management is undertaken finance functions, consolidation reviews and analysis by a dedicated team, accountable to the board and of material variances, finance technical reviews, and audit committee.
The board validates the risk appetite review and sign-o by senior finance managers.
The PLC for each principal risk as recommended by executive finance function also monitors and assesses these management early in the year.
The identi cation processes, through a finance compliance function.
and mitigation of signi cant business risks is the responsibility of senior management and leadership teams for each business area.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 89 These controls include those over external financial The SVP internal audit and compliance oversees reporting which are documented and tested in compliance with our Code of Conduct and works with accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the senior legal and human resources personnel to Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to our US listing.
investigate any reported incidents including ethical, One key control in this area is the disclosure committee, corruption and fraud allegations.
The audit committee which submits reports to the audit committee.
This is provided with an update of all signi cant matters committee is chaired by the SVP internal audit and received through our whistleblowing reporting system, compliance, and members include the chief financial together with an annual review of the e ectiveness of o cer, general counsel, SVP investor relations, company this system.
The Pearson anti-bribery and corruption secretary as well as senior members of financial programme provides the framework to support our management.
The primary responsibility of this compliance with various anti-bribery and corruption committee is to review Pearsons public reporting and regulations such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US disclosures to ensure that information provided to Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
shareholders is complete, accurate and compliant Treasury management with all applicable legislation and listing regulations.
The treasury department operates within policies The e ectiveness of key financial controls is subject approved by the board and its transactions and to management review and self-certi cation and procedures are subject to regular internal audit.
Major independent evaluation by the external auditors.
transactions are authorised outside the department Internal audit at the requisite level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
Frequent reports are made to the The internal audit function is responsible for providing chief financial o cer and regular reports are prepared independent assurance to management and the audit for the audit committee and the board.
The treasury committee on the design and e ectiveness of internal policy is described in more detail in note 19 to the controls to mitigate strategic, financial, operational and financial statements.
The risk-based annual internal audit plan is approved by the audit committee.
Management Insurance action plans to improve internal controls and to mitigate Pearson reviews its risk nancing options regularly to risks, or both, are agreed with each business area after determine how the companys insurable risk exposures each audit.
Formal management self-assessments allow are managed and protected.
Pearson purchases internal audit to monitor business areas progress in comprehensive insurance cover and annually reviews implementing management action plans agreed as part coverage, insurers and premium spend, ensuring the of internal audits to resolve any control fide ciencies.
programme is t for purpose and cost-e ective.
Progress of management action plans is reported to the audit committee at each meeting.
Internal audit has a Pearsons insurance subsidiary, Spear Insurance formal collaboration process in place with the external Company Limited, is used to leverage Pearsons risk auditors to ensure e cient coverage of internal controls.
retention capability and to achieve a balance between Regular reports on the work of internal audit are retaining insurance risk and transferring it to external provided to executive management and, via the audit insurers.
