80 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Nomination committee report Nomination committee role and composition Chairman of nomination commit ommitt te ee e Sidney Taurel The committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the board and its committees, and identi es Members Elizabeth Corley, and recommends to the board the appointment of Vivienne Cox, Josh Lewis, Linda Lorimer, Harish Manwani wani, new directors and or committee members.
The Tim Score, Sidney Taurel chairman of the board also chairs the nomination and Lincoln Wallen committee, and all non-executive directors serve as members of the committee.
The chief executive attends committee meetings by invitation.
A s chairman of the nomination Chairman role committee, one of Glen Morenos Although the chairman of the board chairs the nomination committee, he is not permitted to chair outstanding legacies to Pearson meetings when the appointment of his successor is washis ability to attract first-rate being considered or during a discussion regarding his performance.
At such times, the senior independent non-executives to the Pearson director will chair the meetings, such as during the board.
I look forward to chairing search process for Glen Morenos replacement during this committee as we work to 2015 when Vivienne Cox chaired the committees meetings.
Learn more about Chairman succession continually refresh the board, on p79 itscommittees and to think about Committee meetings and appointments succession planning at senior levels.
The nomination committee meets at least once a year and at other times as and when required.
During 2015, Committee responsibilities include: the committee met six times with its primary focus being 1.
Appointments Identifying and nominating candidates for to discuss the search criteria, prepare role descriptions board vacancies.
and consider suitable candidates for the role of chairman 2.
Balance Ensuring that the board and its committees have of the board and for an additional non-executive director the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, with particular experience in digital technology to diversity and knowledge to operate e ectively.
Succession planning Reviewing the companys leadership culminated in the successful appointment of Lincoln needs with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Wallen to the board with e ect from 1 January 2016. organisation to compete e ectively in the marketplace.
Key activities in 2015 Objectives Actions Succession process and Appointment of Sidney Taurel appointment of new as chairman chairman of the board Identify and appoint Appointment of Lincoln additional non-executive Wallen as non-executive director with digital director with experience technology experience in digital technology Complete search process Appointment of for new chief financial Coram Williams as o cer chief financial o cer For nomination committee attendance Terms of reference see overview table on p78 The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be found on the company website at www.
com governance Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 81 Pearson uses a number of leading rms in its board In 2011, Lord Davies set FTSE 100 companies a target and executive search activities.
JCA Group was engaged of having 25% female representation on their boards to assist with the recruitment of Sidney Taurel.
Pearson is proud of the gender diversity of addition to board search activity, JCA Group facilitated its board, having exceeded Lord Davies target with Pearsons board evaluation in 2014.
JCA Group has no 30% female representation on the board, and notes other connection to Pearson apart from in relation to Lord Davies recommended next steps for continued search activity and the external facilitation of the 2014 improvement in diversity on boards, including the board evaluation.
An external search consultancy, extension of good diversity practices to the layers of Spencer Stuart, was used during the recruitment process executive management below the board.
Spencer Stuart does not have any Immediately below board level, the Pearson executive, other connection to Pearson apart from as a search not including the chief executive and chief financial consultancy.
o cer who are main board directors, has two female Learn more about the Board of directors on p72-73 members out of a total of nine representing 22%.
Our senior leadership team, up to and including two Diversity reporting levels from the chief executive, shows a strong The board embraces the Codes underlying principles pipeline of female talent with women representing 34% with regard to board balance and diversity, including of our senior leaders.
The nomination committee ensures Pearson considers diversity as an important issue across that the directors of Pearson demonstrate a broad the company, not just at board level.
One of the key aims balance of skills, experience and nationalities, to support of Pearsons diversity policy is to increase the number Pearsons strategic development and re ect the global of leaders coming from a diverse background, such nature of our business.
as through our range of networks and advancement The nomination committee and the board always programmes for employees.
Learn more about take account of diversity in its broadest sense when Diversity and inclusion throughout Pearson on p62 considering board appointments whilst ensuring that appointments are made based on merit and relevant experience.
We believe the global backgrounds of our board members contribute to diversity of experience Sidney Taurel and thought.
