Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Internal control Wider aspects of internal control All of these processes serve to ensure that a culture of The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups system effective control and risk management is embedded within of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment the organisation and that the Group is in a position to react and the Groups assets and for reviewing its effectiveness.
appropriately to new risks as they arise.
Details of key risks The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the affecting the Group are set out in the strategic report on risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only pages 34 to 39. provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Internal control framework material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process The Group has a well established internal control framework for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant which is operated and which applies in relation to the risks faced by the Group that has been in place throughout process for preparing the Groups consolidated accounts.
2014 15 and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
This framework comprises: The Board confirms that it continues to apply procedures a clearly defined structure which delegates an appropriate in accordance with the UK Code and the Guidance on level of authority, responsibility and accountability, Internal Control the Turnbull Guidance which suggests including responsibility for internal financial control, to means of applying the internal control provisions of the management of operating units Code.
As part of these procedures the Board has a Group a comprehensive budgeting and reporting function with risk management policy which provides for the identification an annual budget approved by the Board, which also of key risks including environmental, social and governance monitors the financial reporting process, monthly results ESG risks in relation to the achievement of the business and updated forecasts for the year against budget objectives of the Group, monitoring of such risks and annual documented financial control procedures.
Managers evaluation of the overall process, as described in more detail of operating units are required to confirm annually that below.
The policy is applied by all business units within the they have adequate financial controls in operation and to Group in accordance with an annual timetable.
report all material areas of financial risk.
Compliance with The Groups system of internal control is being further procedures is reviewed and tested by the Companys reviewed to take account of the FRCs new Guidance on internal audit function Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial an investment appraisal process for evaluating proposals and Business Reporting September 2014, which will be for all major capital expenditure and acquisitions, with reported against in next years Annual Report.
defined levels of approval and a system for monitoring the progress of capital projects Risk identification and management A full risk and control assessment is undertaken annually a post-investment evaluation process for major capital by the management of each business to identify financial expenditure and acquisitions to assess the success and non-financial risks, including ESG risks, which are then of the project and learn any lessons to be applied to regularly updated.
Each business compiles as part of regular future projects.
management reports an enhanced and focused assessment Internal control review of key risks against corporate objectives.
At each meeting the An evaluation of the effectiveness of overall internal controls Board receives from the Executive Directors details of any new and compliance by the Group is undertaken in respect of high-level risks identified and how they are to be managed, each financial year and subsequently up to the date of together with details of any changes to existing risks and their this report to assist the Audit Committee in considering management.
The subsidiary boards of South West Water the Group internal audit plan for the forthcoming financial and Viridor also receive similar reports in respect of their year and also the strategic report for the Annual Report.
In addition the Group Director of The Group General Counsel & Company Secretary initially Finance is responsible for monitoring the Group risk register carries out the evaluation with Executive Directors and senior and for reporting on key risks and how they are managed at management for consideration by the Audit Committee and regular intervals to the Audit Committee and to the Board.
subsequently for final evaluation by the Board.
Under the Group risk management policy, all Executive In addition, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the Directors and senior managers are required to certify on operation and effectiveness of the internal control framework an annual basis that they have effective controls in place to and annually reviews the scope of work, authority and manage risks and to operate in compliance with legislation resources of the Companys internal audit function.
Committee reports and makes recommendations to the The Group also has policies covering suspected fraud, Board on such reviews.
For 2014 15 and up to the date of anti-bribery and whistleblowing, and we thoroughly approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, both the Audit investigate any allegations of misconduct and irregularity and Committee and the Board were satisfied with the effectiveness consider the implications for our control environment.
In the of the Group risk management policy and the internal control normal course of business, investigations into irregularities framework and their operation within the Group.
may be ongoing as of the date of the approval of the Further information on the internal control review is set out in financial statements.
the Audit Committee report on page 62. www www.
