78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Board governance and activities continued All directors receive training in the form of presentations More committee information: about the companys operations, through board Audit committee p82 meetings held at operational locations and by p80 Nomination committee encouraging the directors to visit local facilities and management as and when their schedule allows, Remuneration committee p94 including if they are travelling to a country or region on Reputation & responsibility committee p90 non-Pearson business.
The company secretary and general counsel, in conjunction with Pearsons advisers, Standing committee p76 monitor legal and governance developments and update The committees focus on their own areas of expertise, the board on such matters as agreed with the chairman.
enabling the board meetings to focus on governance, Directors can also make use of external courses.
strategy, performance and people, thereby making the Directors indemnities best use of the boards time together as a whole.
The committee chairmen report to the full board at each A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted meeting immediately following their sessions, ensuring by the Articles and sections 232 and 234 of the Act, has a good communication ow whilst retaining the ability to been granted by the company to each of its directors.
escalate items to the full boards agenda if appropriate.
Under the provisions of the QTPI the company undertakes to indemnify each director against liability Board committee attendance to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory The following table shows attendance by directors penalties and to pay directors costs as incurred, at committee meetings throughout 2015: provided that they are reimbursed to the company Reputation & if the director is found guilty, the court refuses to Audit Remuneration Nomination responsibility grant the relief sought or, in an action brought by the company, judgment is given against the director.
Glen Moreno 4 4 6 6 The indemnity has been in force for the financial year David Arculus ended 31 December 2015 and is currently in force.
note 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 Elizabeth Corley4 4 6 6 The company has purchased and maintains directors and o cers insurance cover against certain legal Vivienne Cox 4 4 4 4 6 6 3 3 liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any Ken Hydon act or omission by such directors and o cers in the note 2 2 2 1 2 1 2 execution of their duties.
Josh Lewis 4 4 6 6 Board committees Linda Lorimer 4 4 6 6 3 3 The board has established four formal committees: Harish Manwani 6 6 3 3 audit, nomination, remuneration, and reputation & Tim Score responsibility.
The chairmen and members of these note 3 4 4 1 1 6 6 committees are appointed by the board on the Note 1: Stood down on 24 April 2015 recommendation where appropriate of the nomination Note 2: Stood down on 24 April 2015.
Unable to attend one remuneration committee and one nomination committee meeting due to personal reasons committee and in consultation with each relevant Note 3: Joined remuneration committee on 2 October 2015 committee chairman.
In addition to these formal board committees, the standing committee also operates with board level input.
