Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 77 Board evaluation board requires to help it track progress against a number of key milestones.
This is an ongoing process, and we will As reported last year, towards the end of 2014, an continue to monitor the e ectiveness of our internal externally facilitated board e ectiveness review was processes and to compare what we do against others.
conducted by external evaluator, JCA Group.
In addition to facilitating this review, JCA Group used the information Personal objectives and insight they had gleaned from the individual In addition to the evaluation of the board as a whole, members of the board to help them form a brief and an executives are also evaluated each year on their overview of the characteristics that Pearson would be performance against personal objectives under the looking for in a new chairman.
JCA then used this insight companys annual incentive plan.
to inform the chairman search which took place during 2015, and resulted in the eventual appointment of Sidney The non-executive directors, led by the senior Taurel as Pearson chairman.
See p79 for a full review of independent director, also conduct a review of the chairman succession at Pearson.
The board evaluation for 2015 was conducted on an Committee evaluation internal basis.
With the forthcoming departure of In addition to the review of the board, committees and Glen Moreno, the arrival of a new chairman, together individual directors described above, the audit and with the appointment of a new CFO and the imminent remuneration committees each undertook a further appointment of a new company secretary, it was agreed evaluation process to review their performance and that the 2015 review should focus mainly on the support e ectiveness, as they do each year.
and information that the board and committees receive in order to ensure that the existing processes are The process involves distribution of questionnaires to su cient and t for purpose.
To that end, Stephen Jones, audit and remuneration committee members, as well as Pearsons company secretary, interviewed each of the key stakeholders in each committee, seeking views on non-executive directors to understand their thinking matters including committee roles and responsibilities, on a number of board and committee-related support quality and timeliness of meeting materials, opportunity activities.
for discussion and debate, dialogue with management and access to independent advice.
Responses are then Process and recommendations evaluated and presented to the respective committee at The review focused on the scheduling, arrangements a scheduled meeting, with key themes being drawn out and logistics for all board and committee meetings: the for discussion.
quality and usefulness of the regular information ow to the board and committees, including the use of Directors training and induction electronic board papers, regular CEO and CFO updates Directors receive a signi cant bespoke induction and other information: board induction and training: programme and a range of information about Pearson the payment of non-executives fees and expenses when they join the board.
This includes background and any other items or suggestions for improvements.
information on Pearson and details of board procedures, The exercise proved very useful as an opportunity to directors responsibilities and various governancetake stock of current practice, to test whether the board related issues, including procedures for dealing in views that as appropriate, and to think about those areas Pearson shares and their legal obligations as directors.
where improvements could be made.
As a result of these The induction also typically includes a series of meetings discussions, we are re-thinking the schedule of board with members of the board, the Pearson executive and and committee meetings during the course of the year, senior management, presentations regarding the including the topics to be considered at those meetings business from senior executives and a brie ng on and their venues.
In addition, we are re ning some of Pearsons investor relations programme.
The induction the information that the board receives in order that the programme for Lincoln Wallen is ongoing, tailored to non-executives be able to be more e ective.
We heard his speci c areas of focus, such as time with Pearsons that more could be done by management to curate technology leaders, and relevant to the board some of the information that is sent to non-executives committees he has joined.
Read about the induction and to make clear to them what is key information programme for Pearsons new chairman, Sidney Taurel and what is useful to know.
We are also re ning the on p79 regular CEO and CFO updates to the board, in order to ensure they provide exactly the information that the
