Governance and remuneration Experience 2014 2015 Board of Directors % Industry 43 Finance 43 Composition 2014 2015 Governance 14 % Industry 37.5 Finance 50 Executive 43 Governance 12.5 Non-executive inc. Chairman 57 Executive 37.5 Non-executive inc. Chairman 62.5 Tenure 2014 2015 % Male 86 Female 14 0-3 years 29 Male 75 4-6 years 14 Female 25 7-10 years 57 0-3 years 50 As at 31 March 4-6 years 12.5 7-10 years 37.5 The Board considers each of its Non-executive Directors to be independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board believes its Directors have an appropriate range of experience to oversee the business of the Group.
The Boards target to achieve 25% female representation was achieved early, before the year-end.
During a period of transition on the Board, the female representation has fallen to 22% but will increase to 29% following the AGM.
Chairman and Deputy Chairman Sir John Parker currently serves as Deputy Chairman and Chairman Designate pending the retirement of Ken Harvey following the 2015 AGM.
Kenneth George Harvey Sir John Parker CBE, BSc GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, DSc Hon, DUniv Hon, FRINA Chairman Deputy Chairman Non-executive Appointed on 1 March 1997 Appointed on 1 April 2015 Committees: Nomination Chairman Committees: Nomination Ken was formerly chairman and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
He was previously deputy chairman of London Electricity and earlier Sir John is the chairman of Anglo American Plc.
He is also a its engineering director.
He has also been chairman of a number of non-executive director of Carnival Corporation and Airbus Group limited and private equity funded companies.
He was until July 2013 and deputy chairman of DP World.
Sir John is a Visiting Fellow of the senior independent director of National Grid Holdings Plc.
the University of Oxford and was president of the Royal Academy of Engineering from 2011 to 2014.
He was previously the chairman Ken is due to retire following the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
of National Grid Plc, senior non-executive director and chair of the Court of the Bank of England, joint chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O Plc.
56 56 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Non-executive Directors Martin David Angle Gerard Dominic Connell Neil Cooper Gill Rider BSc Hons, FCA, MCSI MA BSc Hons, FCMA CB, PhD, FCIPD Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed on 1 December 2008 Appointed 1 September 2014 Appointed on 1 September 2012 Senior Independent Committees: Audit, Committees: Audit Chairman, Committees: Audit, Director Remuneration Chairman, Sustainability, Nomination, Remuneration, Sustainability Appointed on 1 October 2003 Sustainability, Nomination Remuneration Chairman, Nomination Committees: Audit, Sustainability, Martin currently holds Nomination, Remuneration Neil is currently the group Gill currently holds non-executive directorships finance director of William non-executive directorships Gerard currently is also with Savills Plc, Shuaa Capital Hill Plc but is due to leave with Charles Taylor Plc, the a non-executive director psc and The National Exhibition William Hill and become the Chartered Institute of Personnel and chairman of the audit Group where he is chairman.
In chief financial officer of Barratt & Development where she is committee of the Defence addition, he sits on the board Developments Plc on a date president and fide La Rue Plc Science and Technology of the FIA Foundation where yet to be determined.
He was where she is chairman of the Laboratory, a non-executive he is vice-chairman.
Formerly previously group finance director remuneration committee.
She director of the Land Registry, he had senior positions with of Bovis Homes Group Plc and is also chair of the council of an independent director of the Terra Firma Capital Partners also held senior finance roles the University of Southampton.
Nuclear Decommissioning Fund and various of its portfolio with Whitbread Plc, worked for Formerly Gill was head of the Company Limited, a council companies, including the  as a Civil Service Capability Group member of the Science & executive chairmanship of management consultant and in the Cabinet Office reporting Technology Facilities Council, Waste Recycling Group Limited.
held a number of roles with to the Cabinet Secretary and and a non-executive director Before that he was the group Reckitt & Colman Plc.
prior to that held a number of and chair of the audit committee finance director of TI Group Plc senior positions with Accenture at the Financial Ombudsman and held a number of senior culminating in the post of Service.
Previously he was group investment banking positions chief leadership officer for the finance director of Wincanton with SG Warburg & Co Ltd, global firm.
Plc, a director of Hill Samuel Morgan Stanley and Dresdner and a managing director of Gill is due to become the Kleinwort Benson.
SeniorIndependent Director after Gerards retirement.
Gerard is due to retire following the 2015 Annual Group Company General Meeting.
Executive Directors Secretary Susan Jane Davy Christopher Loughlin Ian James McAulay Kenneth David Woodier BSc Hons, ACA BSc Hons, MICE, CEng, MBA BEng, CEng, MICE, MCIWEM Solicitor, CMA, DMS, CPE Law Group Director of Finance Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Viridor Group General Counsel & Appointed on 1 February 2015 Appointed on 9 September 2013 South West Water Company Secretary Committees: Sustainability Appointed on 1 August 2006 Susan was previously finance Appointed Company Secretary Committees: Sustainability and regulatory director of Ian was previously chief of to the Board in March 1998 South West Water Limited, global strategy and corporate Chris was previously chief Ken was formerly the head of a position to which she was development with MWH Global operating officer with Lloyds group legal services at Pennon appointed in August 2007. based in the US.
Previously Register and earlier in his career Group Plc then South West Prior to joining Pennon Group he was the managing director, was an executive director of Water Plc from February 1990. she held a number of senior capital programmes, at United British Nuclear Fuels Plc and Previously he held senior legal posts with Yorkshire Water Utilities Plc.
Ian started his executive chairman of Magnox positions with H. P. Bulmer including head of regulation and career as a consulting civil Electric Plc.
He was also a Holdings Plc, Investors in head of finance in their Waste engineer and held a number senior diplomat in the British Industry Plc 3i and Severn Water Unit and was head of of positions with Crouch Embassy, Tokyo.
He is a director finance for Brey Utilities, a joint & Hogg in Glasgow and his career as a chartered of the Devon & Somerset Law venture company owned by subsequently Montgomery engineer working in both the Society and a member of its Yorkshire Water and Earthtech Watson, which merged in consulting and contracting governance committee.
She is 2001 with Harza to form MWH sectors and subsequently held a a council member of Water Global.
He is a member of the number of senior positions with UK and a graduate qualified board of the Environmental British Nuclear Fuels.
April 2008 and March 2012 he was chairman of Water UK.
Currently Chris is vice-chairman of the Cornwall Local Enterprise Partnership and a trustee and member of the audit committee of WaterAid.
He is a board member and past president of the Institute of Water.
