Governance and remuneration The Board and its governance framework The Board and its governance framework, and that of its subsidiary boards, is set out below.
Each board has a matters reserved schedule setting out its responsibilities and each committee has a detailed terms of reference setting out its responsibilities, accountabilities and reporting obligations to each board and, in respect of the subsidiary board committees, how they operate in conjunction with the corresponding Pennon Committee.
Further details of the responsibilities of the Pennon Group Board Committees are set out in the report of each Committee on pages 62 to 71.
These, together with the risk management and internal control frameworks described on page 61, form an effective and robust governance structure designed to manage and develop the Group in accordance with the Groups strategy to maintain and grow shareholdervalue.
Pennon Group Board Membership : Chairman 3 Non-executive Directors 3 Executive Directors South West Water Board Viridor Board Audit Committee Membership: Membership: Membership : 5 Non-executive Directors 4 Non-executive Directors 3 Non-executive Directors 4 Executive Directors 7 Executive Directors Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Personnel Committee Membership : 3 Non-executive Directors Remuneration Committee Governance Committee Nomination Committee Membership : 3 Non-executive Directors Board and Committee membership is shown and the Chairman Nomination Committee following the retirements that are due to take place after the 2015 AGM Sustainability Committee Membership : Sustainability Committee Pending the decision of the Competition 3 Non-executive Directors and Markets Authority in respect of the 2 Executive Directors merger reference, Bournemouth Water has not been included in this framework.
58 58 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements The Directors, their independence and duties Operation of the Board in the year and its activities The Board of Directors at the end of the year comprised the The Directors and their attendance at the 10 scheduled Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-executive meetings of the Board during 2014 15 are shown below: Directors.
All of the Non-executive Directors were considered by the Board to be independent throughout the year.
None Members Appointment date Attendance of the relationships or circumstances set out in provision Kenneth Harvey March 1997 10 10 B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 edition Chairman the UK Code applied to them other than in respect of Non-executive Directors: Gerard Connell who, since the 2013 Annual General Martin Angle December 2008 10 10 Meeting, has served on the Board for more than nine years since his first election.
Neil Cooper was appointed by Gerard Connell October 2003 9 10 the Board as Gerards successor on 1 September 2014.
Neil Cooper September 2014 6 6 Following a suitable handover period in respect of the Audit Gill Rider September 2012 10 10 Committee chairmanship in particular, Gerard Connell will retire from the Board following this years Annual General Executive Directors: Meeting.
Throughout the year, Gerard was determined by Susan Davy February 2015 2 2 the Board to be independent and the Board is satisfied that he does and will continue to demonstrate independence of David Dupont March 2002 8 8 character and judgement in the performance of his role on Christopher Loughlin August 2006 10 10 the Board until the date of his retirement.
Ian McAulay September 2013 10 10 Sir John Parker, who was appointed to the Board on 1April2015 as Deputy Chairman, will succeed Ken Harvey David Dupont retired on 31 January 2015 as Chairman following the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
All Directors are equally accountable for the proper The Board considers that Sir John, as a Non-executive stewardship of the Groups affairs with the Non-executive Director, is independent and that he will continue to meet Directors having a particular responsibility for ensuring that the independence criteria set out in the UK Code upon his strategies proposed for the development of the business appointment as Chairman.
The Non-executive Directors also All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to have the critically examine the operational and financial performance appropriate skills, experience in their respective disciplines of the Group and fulfil a key role in corporate accountability and personality to bring independent and objective judgement through their membership of the Committees of the to the Boards deliberations.
Their biographies on pages 56 Board.
In addition the Chairman holds meetings with the and 57 demonstrate collectively a broad range of business, Non-executive Directors, without the Executive Directors financial and other relevant experience.
Gerard Connell is the present, to discuss performance and strategic issues.
Senior Independent Director and his duties include leading the annual evaluation of the performance of the Chairman by the Non-executive Directors and being available as an additional point of contact on the Board for shareholders.
Gerard will be succeeded by Gill Rider as Senior Independent Director following his retirement.
Neil Cooper is chairman of the Audit Committee and in accordance with the UK Code and FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1.
1 he has recent and relevant financial experience as set out in his biography on page 57.
Martin Angle is also a member of the Audit Committee and he has relevant financial experience as set out in his biography on page 57.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and the Chief Executives of South West Water and Viridor as recorded in the descriptions of the roles approved by the Board.
All Directors are subject to re-election each year in accordance with provision B.
Following the acquisition of Bournemouth Water, Chris Loughlin and Gerard Connell were appointed as non-executive directors on the Bournemouth Water board.
co. uk 2015 59 59 Governance and remuneration The Board and its governance framework Continued In accordance with the governance framework set out on Performance evaluation page 58, the Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its The Board has well developed internal procedures to decision, some of which may be escalated by the subsidiary evaluate the performance of the whole Board, each boards of South West Water and Viridor for approval.
The Committee, the Chairman, each individual Director and Board delegates more detailed consideration of certain the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
matters to Board Committees, to the Executive Directors The evaluation of the performance of the Board and its or to the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, as Committees was administered by an external governance appropriate.
The matters reserved to the Board include: consultancy, Lintstock.
All participants views were sought via an online questionnaire on a range of questions which approval of the preliminary and half year were designed by the Chairman and the Group General results announcements: Counsel & Company Secretary in conjunction with Lintstock the approval of the Annual Report & Accounts including to ensure objective evaluation of performance.
Responses the financial statements : were then analysed and summarised by Lintstock for the Board and each Committee to consider and determine all acquisitions and disposals: possible improvement areas.
Apart from providing services major items of capital expenditure: relating to subsidiary boards and committees and pension authority levels for other expenditure: scheme boards and committees performance evaluation, risk management process and monitoring of risks: Lintstock has no other connection with the Company.
approval of the strategic plan and annual The Board considered the evaluation which it believed was operatingbudgets: a thorough assessment of Board performance.
Overall it Group policies, procedures and delegations: and was not considered that there were any major matters which required attention but it was recognised that at a time of appointments to the Board and its Committees and to the transition for the Board it was important to focus further on subsidiary boards and their committees.
strategy in conjunction with the new Chairman.
The Pennon Group Board and the boards of South West The areas for action that had been identified as a result of Water and Viridor liaise on strategic and operational matters.
the 2014 performance evaluation namely the allocation In addition the subsidiary board committees liaise with the of more time for consideration of strategic matters, the Pennon Committees as appropriate to ensure a consistent appointment of an additional Non-executive Director, a Group-wide approach to governance matters.
review of induction arrangements for new Directors, and The Board operates by receiving written reports circulated developing closer links with subsidiary boards had been usually in advance of the meetings from the Executive followed up appropriately during the year.
Directors and the Group General Counsel & Company The Chairmans performance was evaluated Secretary on matters within their respective business areas separately by the Non-executive Directors, led by of the Group.
When considered appropriate, the Board also theSeniorIndependent Director.
receives presentations on key areas of the business and undertakes site visits to gain a better understanding of the Dealing with Directors conflicts of interest operation of business initiatives.
In accordance with the directors interest provision of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Under the guidance of the Chairman all matters before Association, the Board has in place a procedure for the the Board are discussed openly and presentations and consideration and authorisation of Directors conflicts or advice are received frequently from other senior executives possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
within the Group and from external advisers to facilitate the decision making of the Board.
Board Committees terms of reference In accordance with Group policies, a range of key matters Directors have access to the advice and services of the are delegated to the Boards Committees as set out on Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the pages 62 to 71 of this governance report.
Board has an established procedure whereby directors, in order to fulfil their duties, may seek independent professional The terms of reference of each of the Boards advice at the Companys expense.
Committees are set out on the Companys website www.
co. uk or available upon request to Newly appointed Directors receive a formal induction which the Group Company Secretary.
includes an explanation of the Group structure, regulatory and legal issues, the Group governance framework and policies, the Groups approach to risk management and its principal risks financial and non-financial, duties and obligations including protocols around conflicts of interest and dealing in shares, and the current activities of the Board and its Committees.
The training needs of Directors are reviewed as part of the Boards performance evaluation process each year.
Training consists of attendance at external courses organised by professional advisers and also internal presentations from senior management.
60 60 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015
