86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Audit committee report continued Signi cant issues Area of focus Issue Action taken by audit committee Outcome Pearson carries signi cant The committee considered the results of the Groups Annual impairment goodwill intangible asset annual goodwill impairment review and the key review nalised with Impairment balances.
There is judgement assumptions which are considered to be the cash con rmation of an reviews exercised in the identi cation ows derived from strategic and operating plans, impairment in China, of CGUs and the process long-term growth rates and the weighted average Brazil, North America of allocating goodwill to cost of capital.
The committee considered the and other Growth and Read more in note 11 CGUs and aggregate CGUs sensitivities to changes in assumptions and the related Core territories, and on p164 and in the assumptions disclosures required by IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
su cient headroom underlying the impairment The committee noted that signi cant impairments in other CGUs.
In 2015 Pearson made had arisen primarily as a result of deterioration in signi cant impairments to expected cash ow over the strategic plan period, goodwill and intangible and considered sensitivity to assumptions in relation assets in certain CGUs.
Pearson has a number of The committee regularly reviews revenue recognition Assumptions revenue streams where practice and the underlying assumptions and underlying revenue Revenue recognition were revenue recognition practices estimates.
In addition, the committee has visibility of recognition reviewed and are complex and management internal audit findings relating to revenue recognition challenged and assumptions and estimates controls and processes and routinely monitors the considered to be are necessary.
views of external auditors on revenue recognition appropriate.
During the year the committee reviewed revenue recognition in respect of services provided to charter schools through Pearsons Connections business, and onerous contracts.
The committee also continued to monitor the impact of the new revenue recognition standard, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and noted that although the standard would not be adopted by Pearson until 2018 the committee would need to understand the implications of the change well before that date.
There are a number of issues The committee considered Pearsons approach to tax The committee in di erent countries where provisioning.
Pearson operates in a large number of was satis ed with Tax management judgements and countries and, accordingly, its earnings are subject to Pearsons approach assumptions are made as to tax in many jurisdictions.
The judgement in relation to to tax provisioning the correct tax treatment.
tax provisioning is a combination of the committees taking account of the assessment of the speci c open tax issues and also views of management a review of the time periods in which Pearsons tax and the assessment a airs are open to enquiry by local tax inspectors in of the external jurisdictions where it has a larger taxable presence.
The committee addressed this matter through the presentation of a management report on Pearsons tax a airs by the head of group tax and through a presentation of the external auditors assessment of the companys tax provisioning.
Pearson disposed of its The committee reviewed the disposal accounting Accounting interest in The Financial and disclosure and considered the main judgements treatments and Disposal Times, The Economist relating to tax treatments, and impairment of related valuations con rmed accounting and PowerSchool.
assets on the PowerSchool disposal.
