Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 85 External audit In considering the appropriate audit tender timetable for Pearson in light of these requirements, the committee The committee reviews and approves the appointment has also taken account of the signi cant business change of the external auditors, taking account of the views being experienced by the Group and is monitoring the of management.
The committee reviewed the extent to which the Group is drawing upon the services e ectiveness and independence of the external of other accounting rms.
The Group has commenced auditors during 2015, as it does every year, and a series of programmes to implement major e ciency remains satis ed that the auditors provide e ective improvements across all our enabling functions independent challenge to management.
technology, finance, HR to bring the general and In 2015, the external auditor review was conducted by administrative costs of running Pearson more in line distributing a questionnaire to key audit stakeholders with global best practice: these include a major including members of the audit committee, the chief finance transformation programme, including the executive, chief financial o cer, company secretary, implementation of new financial systems and changes SVP internal audit and compliance, SVP finance for to our transaction processing and control activities, that each Geography and Line of Business and other heads we expect to continue through 2016, 2017 and into 2018. of corporate functions.
Overall, responses to the The Group is supported in these changes, and more questionnaire were very positive, indicating an e ective broadly, by external advisers including accounting rms.
As part of the follow-up to It is the committees intention to appropriately manage the review, the lead audit partner explained to the auditor independence and rotation, rstly, to ensure committee how PwC were monitoring and evaluating that a tender has the right level of suitably quali ed and each area highlighted in the review and con rmed that independent rms competing, including allowing for a they would consider how to adapt their approach in light planned transition and, secondly, to undertake this in a of speci c comments received.
way that does not unnecessarily disrupt the business In addition, in accordance with Pearsons external changes underway and provides consistency of auditor policy, internal audit performs an annual independent oversight from external auditors through assessment of audit fees, services and independence those changes.
which forms the basis of a recommendation by the Notwithstanding that the above EU mandatory rotation committee to the board in respect of the appointment rules require a new auditor to be appointed no later and compensation of the external auditors.
than for the 2024 year end, it is the current expectation The committee will continue to review the performance of the committee that an audit tender process will be of the external auditors on an annual basis and will conducted in 2018 in order for the auditor selected as a consider their independence and objectivity, taking result of the tender to be appointed for the financial year account of all appropriate guidelines.
There are no ending 31 December 2018.
For the reasons outlined contractual obligations restricting the committees above, the committee considers this timing to be in the choice of external auditors.
In any event, the external best interests of the Groups members and will continue auditors are required to rotate the audit partner to monitor this annually in light of the e ectiveness and responsible for the Pearson audit every five years.
independence of the current auditors.
The current lead audit partner rotated onto Pearsons Once the next audit tender occurs, the Group will adopt a audit in 2013. policy of putting the audit contract out to tender at least Pearsons last audit tender was in respect of the 1996 every ten years.
year end, and resulted in the appointment of Price Compliance with the CMA Order Waterhouse as auditors.
Developments at an EU level Pearson con rms that it was in compliance with the regarding mandatory audit rotation for listed companies provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large have changed the UK landscape on audit tendering and Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of rotation.
The committee has reviewed the timetable Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee for tendering and has taken into account all relevant Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year regulation and guidance.
New EU regulations and the ended 31 December 2015.
Learn more about Auditors ruling by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA independence and non-audit services on p119 has imposed mandatory tendering and rotation requirements from 2016.
