76 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Board governance and activities continued A schedule of formal matters reserved for the boards Board attendance decision and approval is available on our website, at The following table sets out the attendance of the www.
com governance companys directors at scheduled board meetings The board receives timely, regular and necessary during 2015: financial, management and other information to ful l its Board duties.
Comprehensive board papers are circulated to meetings attended the board and committee members at least one week in advance of each meeting and the board receives regular Chairman reports from the chief executive.
In addition to meeting Glen Moreno 6 6 papers, a library of current and historic corporate Executive directors information is made available to directors electronically to support the boards decision-making process.
John Fallon 6 6 Directors can obtain independent professional advice, Robin Freestone note 1 4 4 at the companys expense, in the performance of their Coram Williams note 2 2 2 duties as directors.
All directors have access to the advice Non-executive directors and services of the company secretary.
David Arculus note 3 2 2 Non-executive directors meet with local senior Elizabeth Corley 6 6 management every time board meetings are held at the locations of operating companies, such as during the Vivienne Cox 6 6 boards 2015 visits to Palo Alto, California and New Delhi, Ken Hydon note 4 1 2 India.
This allows the non-executive directors to share Josh Lewis 6 6 their experience and expertise with senior managers as Linda Lorimer 6 6 well as allowing them to better understand the abilities and motivations of senior management, which in turn Harish Manwani 6 6 will help them assess the companys prospects and plans Tim Score 6 6 for succession.
Note 1: Stood down on 1 August 2015 Note 2: Appointed on 1 August 2015 Standing committee Note 3: Stood down on 24 April 2015 A standing committee of the board was established Note 4: Stood down on 24 April 2015.
Unable to attend one meeting due to personal reasons to approve certain ordinary course of business items such as banking matters, guarantees, intra-group Succession planning transactions and to make routine approvals relating to The board considers oversight of succession planning employee share plans.
not only at board and executive management level but The committee has written terms of reference, reviewed for all key positions throughout the business as one of and approved each year, which clearly set out its its prime responsibilities.
At board level, the primary authority and duties.
These can be found on the focus during the year was to identify suitable candidates company website at www.
com governance for the role of chairman.
Culture and values of the board The company has formal contingency plans in place for temporary absence of the chief executive for health or As evidenced during its externally facilitated evaluation other reasons.
The matter of chief executive succession in 2014, as a whole and at an individual level, the board is a standing item for discussion and review by the feels wholly committed to Pearsons values and mission.
chairman and chief executive annually.
Succession The reputation & responsibility committees remit planning for the board and chair is considered annually, includes oversight of Pearsons values and culture, and as part of the recent restructuring programme, and it has continued to monitor work in these areas there has been a review of key positions at executive throughout the year.
