72 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors N R Sidney Taurel Chairman John Fallon Chief executive Coram Williams Chief financial o cer aged 67, appointed 1 January 2016 aged 53, appointed 3 October 2012 aged 42, appointed 1 August 2015 Sidney has over 40 years of experience in John became Pearsons chief executive on Coram joined Pearson in 2003 and has held a business and finance, and is currently a board 1 January 2013.
Since 2008 he had been number of senior positions including finance director and chairman of the Compensation responsible for the companys education and operations director for Pearsons English Committee at IBM Corporation.
He is also a businesses outside North America, and Language Teaching business in Europe, director at McGraw Hill Financial, Inc. a role a member of the Pearson management Middle East & Africa, interim president of from which he will step down during 2016. committee.
He joined Pearson in 1997 Pearson Education Italia and head of financial Sidney is senior advisor at global investment as director of communications and was planning and analysis for Pearson.
In 2008 bank Moelis & Co and an advisory board appointed president of Pearson Inc. in 2000.
Coram became CFO of The Penguin Group member at pharmaceutical rms Takeda In 2003, he was appointed CEO of Pearsons and was latterly appointed CFO of Penguin Pharmaceutical and Almirall.
He was chief educational publishing businesses for Europe, Random House in 2013.
Coram was trained at executive o cer of global pharmaceutical Middle East and Africa.
Prior to joining Arthur Andersen, and subsequently worked rm Eli Lilly and Company from 1998 until Pearson, John was director of corporate a airs in both the auditing and consulting practices 2008, chairman of the business from 1999 at Powergen plc, and was also a member of the rm.
until 2008, and has been chairman emeritus of the companys executive committee.
Sidney has received three US Earlier in his career, John held senior public presidential appointments: to the Homeland policy and communications roles in UK local Security Advisory Council, the Presidents government.
He is an advisory board member Export Council and the Advisory Committee of the Global Business Coalition for Education for Trade Policy and Negotiations, and is an and a member of the Council of the University o cer of the French Legion of Honour.
Non-executive directors A N Key to committees N RR A RR Audit Committee Committee Chair N R Nomination Remuneration Linda Lorimer Non-executive director Harish Manwani Non-executive director Committee Committee aged 63, appointed 1 July 2013 aged 62, appointed 1 October 2013 Linda has a deep background in education Harish has an extensive background in RR strategy, administration and public a airs.
emerging markets and senior experience Reputation & She is senior counsellor to the president and in a successful global organisation.
He Responsibility provost of Yale University and until recently was previously chief operating o cer of served as vice president for Global & Strategic consumer products company Unilever, having Initiatives at Yale, where her duties included joined the company in 1976 as a marketing oversight of Yales O ce of International management trainee in India, and held A airs and O ce of Digital Dissemination.
senior management roles around the world, Over a 30-year career in higher education, including North America, Latin America, she has been responsible for many of Europe, Africa and Asia.
He is non-executive Yales administrative services including chairman of Hindustan Unilever Limited in the universitys public communications, India, and serves on the boards of Whirlpool alumni relations and O ce of Sustainability.
Corporation, Qualcomm Inc. and Nielsen Previously, Linda served as president of Holdings.
He is also on the board of the Randolph-Macon Womans College in Virginia Indian School of Business and the Economic and was chair of the board of the Association Development Board EDB of Singapore, and of American Colleges and Universities.
She is global executive advisor at Blackstone also served on the boards of several public Private Equity.
companies, including as presiding director of the McGraw-Hill Companies.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 73 Non-executive directors RR N R R A N RR N R Elizabeth Corley, CBE Vivienne Cox, CBE Josh Lewis Non-executive director Non-executive director Senior independent director aged 53, appointed 1 March 2011 aged 59, appointed 1 May 2014 aged 56, appointed 1 January 2012 Joshs experience spans finance, education Elizabeth is non-executive vice chair Vivienne has wide experience in energy, and the development of digital enterprises.
of Allianz Global Investors, where she natural resources and business innovation.
He is the founder of Salmon River Capital was chief executive o cer from 2005 to She worked for BP plc for 28 years, in Britain LLC, a New York-based private equity 2016.
She was previously at Merrill Lynch and Continental Europe, in posts including venture capital rm focused on technologyInvestment Managers formerly Mercury executive vice president and chief executive enabled businesses in education, financial Asset Management and Coopers & Lybrand.
of BPs gas, power and renewables business services and other sectors.
Over a 25-year Elizabeth is acting-chair of the FICC Markets and its alternative energy unit.
She is noncareer in active, principal investing, he has Standards Board, a member of the ESMA executive director of Stena International been involved in a broad range of successful stakeholder group and an advisory council and chairman of the supervisory board of companies, including several pioneering member of TheCityUK.
She is a nonVallourec, which supplies tubular systems enterprises in the education sector.
In executive director of BAE Systems plc and for the energy industry.
She is also lead addition, he has long been active in the nonthe Financial Reporting Council.
In addition, independent director at the UK Department pro t education sector, with associations she is a member of FEAMs management for International Development.
Vivienne was including New Leaders, New Classrooms, committee, the CFA Future of Finance Council, appointed Commander of the Order of the and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
the Supervisory Board of Euler SA, a council British Empire CBE in the 2016 New Year He is also a non-executive director of several member of the City of London IRSG and a Honours for services to the UK Economy enterprises in the n-tech data, education, member of the Committee of 200.
fellow of the CFA and the Royal Society of Arts and is also a crime ction author.
Non-executive directors A A Pearson board N N members bring a wide R range of experience, skills and backgrounds Tim Score Non-executive director Lincoln Wallen Non-executive director which complement aged 55, appointed 1 January 2015 aged 55, appointed 1 January 2016 ourstrategy.
Tim has extensive experience of the Lincoln is chief technology o cer for technology sector in both developed and DreamWorks Animation, the global family emerging markets, having served as chief entertainment company, a position he has financial o cer of ARM Holdings plc, the held since 2012, having joined the company Experience of chairman and worlds leading semiconductor IP company, as head of research and development in non-executive directors a position he held for 13 years.
Prior to this, Lincoln served as chief experienced non-executive director and technology o cer for the mobile business Digital technology currently sits on the boards of The British of Electronic Arts, Inc. a leading interactive experience Land Company plc and HM Treasury.
He has served on the board of National Express held senior positions at Criterion Software, 63% Group plc from 2005 to 2014, including time as MathEngine plc and is a non-executive interim chairman and six years as the senior director of the Smith Institute for Industrial independent director.
Earlier in his career Tim Mathematics & System Engineering.
Lincoln Emerging market held senior finance roles with Rebus Group, is also an advisory board member of Hewlett experience William Baird, BTR plc and others.
Packard Enterprise and a member of the STEM Advisory Committee of the National 38% Academy foundation.
Lincoln was formerly a lecturer and reader in computation at the Education learning University of Oxford.
