82 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Audit committee report Audit committee role Chairman of audit commit mittee tee Tim Score The committee has been established by the board primarily for the purpose of overseeing the accounting, Members Vivienne Cox, financial reporting, internal control and risk Linda Lorimer, Tim Score e and Lincoln Wallen management processes of the company and the audit of the financial statements of the company.
As a committee, we are responsible for assisting the boards oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys external financial reporting and statements and the companys accounting policies and practices.
D uring 2015, the committee Pearsons internal auditor has a dual reporting line to the conducted a number of deep dives chief financial o cer and to me, and external auditors into selected principal risks, and have direct access to the committee to raise any matters of concern and to report on the results of work directed aschairman of the committee, by the committee.
As audit committee chairman, I report Iwork closely with Coram Williams to the full board at every board meeting immediately to ensure Pearsons finance following a committee meeting.
As a committee, we also review the independence of the external auditors, function is well-placed to support including the provision of non-audit services further the global business eff ectively.
details of which can be found on page 119 and note 4 to the financial statements, ensure that there is an Committee responsibilities include oversight of: appropriate audit relationship and that auditor 1.
Reporting The quality and integrity of financial reporting objectivity and independence are upheld.
and statements and related disclosure.
Policy Group policies, including accounting policies and practices.
2015 saw the retirement from Pearson of Ken Hydon, who had been chairman of the committee for nine years, 3.
External audit External audit, including the appointment, quali cation, independence and the performance of the and David Arculus, also a long-serving member of the external auditor.
I took over from Ken as committee chairman in April, and have since worked with Coram Williams 4.
Risk and internal control Risk management systems and internal control environment including the performance of looking closely at Pearsons finance function to ensure it the internal audit function.
is well-placed to support the global business e ectively.
In March 2016 Lincoln Wallen joined the committee, 5.
Compliance Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in relation to financial reporting and bringing extensive technology experience, and together accounting matters.
we have a good balance of skills and knowledge on the committee with experience covering all aspects of the For audit committee meeting attendance sector in which Pearson operates.
see overview table on p78 Fair, balanced and understandable reporting We are mindful of the Codes provision C. 1.1 relating to fair, balanced and understandable reporting and we build su cient time into our annual report timetable to ensure that the full board receives su cient opportunity to review, consider and comment on the report as it progresses.
Learn more about Fair, balanced and understandable reporting on p119 Risk assessment, assurance and integrity Terms of reference A key role of the committee is to provide oversight and The committee has written terms of reference which reassurance to the board with regard to the integrity clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are reviewed of the companys financial reporting, internal control annually and can be found on the company website at policies, and procedures for the identi cation, www.
com governance assessment and reporting of risk.
