74 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Board governance and activities Board of directors Independence of chairman Sidney Taurel was considered to be independent upon his appointment Composition of the board The board currently consists as chairman on 1 January 2016. of the chairman, Sidney Taurel, two executive directors including the chief executive, John Fallon, and seven Independence of directors All of the non-executive independent non-executive directors.
directors who served during 2015 were considered by the board to be independent for the purposes of the Chairman and chief executive There is a fide ned split Code.
Lincoln Wallen was considered to be independent of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief upon his appointment to the board on 1 January 2016. executive.
The roles and responsibilities of the chairman The board reviews the independence of each of the and chief executive are clearly fide ned, set out in writing non-executive directors annually.
This includes and reviewed and agreed by the board annually.
reviewing their external appointments and any potential Chairmans signi cant commitments There were no con icts of interest as well as assessing their individual changes to the chairmans signi cant commitments circumstances in order to ensure that there are no between his appointment to the Pearson board on relationships or matters likely to a ect their character 1 January 2016 and the date of this report.
In addition to this review, each of the has announced that he will step down from the board non-executive directors is asked annually to complete of McGraw Hill Financial, Inc. at its 2016 annual an independence questionnaire to satisfy requirements shareholders meeting.
arising from Pearsons US listing.
Key roles Role Name Responsibility Chairman Sidney Taurel The chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board and ensuring its e ectiveness.
The chairman sets the boards agenda and promotes open, constructive debate of all agenda items and e ective decision-making.
He also ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated to the board.
Chief executive John Fallon The chief executive is responsible for the operational management of the business and for the development and implementation of the companys strategy as agreed by the board and management.
He is responsible for developing operational proposals and policies for approval by the board, and promotes Pearsons culture and standards.
Senior Vivienne Cox The senior independent directors role includes meeting regularly with the chairman and independent chief executive to discuss speci c issues, as well as being available to shareholders generally director should they have concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels.
Committee Tim Score, Elizabeth The committee chairmen are responsible for leading the board committees and ensuring chairmen Corley, Vivienne Cox their e ectiveness.
They set the committees agendas, in consultation with the companys and Sidney Taurel management, and report to the board on committee proceedings.
Company Stephen Jones The company secretary acts as secretary to the board and its committees, ensuring secretary compliance with board procedures and advising on governance matters.
He is responsible, under the direction of the chairman, for ensuring the board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
The company secretary organises new director inductions and ongoing director training.
Gender split of board Length of tenure of non-executive directors Men 7 Under 3 years 5 Women 3 3 to 6 years 2 Figures as at 4 March 2016 Figures as at 4 March 2016
