Corporate governance statement and Directors Report The Board of Directors presents its Directors Report incorporating the Corporate Governance Statement for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Leadership and effectiveness Board composition The Board comprises ten directors, a Non-Executive Chairman, Together the balance of skills, experience and personal four Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
characteristics of the Non-Executive Directors result in a diversity The Executive Directors have significant housebuilding experience, of views and opinions to support the Executive Directors and having worked for the Group for many years and in differing market provide excellent advice and judgement on the formation and conditions and they are supported by a strong Chairman and by implementation of the Groups strategy.
In accordance with Non-Executives with broad business experience.
the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Governance Code there is a clear written division of Nicholas Wrigley became Chairman in April 2011 and he remains responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, an Executive Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
The Chairman whichis approved by the Board.
encourages open and honest debate in the spirit of constructive challenge, which results in high quality decision making in all areas The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its of strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
The schedule includes the approval of the Groups strategy, major investments, annual and half year Jeff Fairburn has been Chief Executive for three years and has results and trading updates, review of performance, dividend and worked for the Group since 1989.
Since his appointment as cash return policy, monitoring risk and ensuring adequate financial ChiefExecutive he has demonstrated strong leadership skills controls are available.
The schedule is reviewed annually.
which enable him to effectively direct and manage the delivery ofthe Groups targets.
He has extensive housebuilding experience, Board changes having held a number of positions within the business.
As previously announced, Nigel Greenaway will retire from the Mike Killoran has been the Groups Finance Director for the last Board after the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting 17 years and he has very strong finance and housebuilding following an almost 30 year career at Persimmon.
Nigel Greenaway and Dave Jenkinson both Richard Pennycook and Mark Preston will resign from the both have extensive housebuilding experience having held senior Board after the AGM, due to time constraints following Richards operational positions within the Group prior to their respective forthcoming appointment as Chairman of Howden Joinery Plc Board appointments.
andMarks promotion at the Grosvenor Estate.
The Non-Executive Directors have complementary skill sets Jonathan Davie will become the Senior Independent Director bringing substantial and diverse experience to the Board.
Rachel Kentleton will Nicholas Wrigley and Jonathan Davie both have considerable become Chair of the Audit Committee and Marion Sears will experience of financial markets.
The Senior Independent Director be appointed to both the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He has extensive financial and retail Nigel Mills will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on experience gained from his current role as Group Chief Executive 4April2016 and will become a member of the Remuneration of The Co-operative Group and from his previous roles, including Committee on the same date.
his position as Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc.
Following these changes there will be eight Board members, Mark Preston has wide ranging experience in retail, commercial the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive and residential property as Chief Executive of Grosvenor Group Directors and women will comprise 25% of Board members.
Marion Sears has extensive experience in banking and retail markets, whilst Rachel Kentleton has similarly strong experience in finance and retail travel markets in her current role asa member ofEasyJets executive board.
Persimmon Plc 46 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Key actions of the Board Re-election of Directors The Board reviewed and approved the Companys current strategy In accordance with the Governance Code all of the Directors will and Capital Return Plan at its annual strategy meeting in October stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, except for Nigel 2015.
Full details of the current strategy are set out in the Strategic Greenaway, Richard Pennycook and Mark Preston who are leaving Report on pages 4 to 39. the Company.
The Boards reasons for supporting the re-election of the Chairman Nicholas Wrigley and Non-Executive Directors The Board met on seven occasions in 2015, including its annual Jonathan Davie, Marion Sears and Rachel Kentleton are that they strategy meeting.
There was full attendance by all Directors at all have individually produced excellent performance in their duties Board and Committee meetings during the year.
and have shown a high level of commitment to their roles.
The implementation of the Board strategy and policies are Nigel Mills will stand for election in accordance with the Companys delegated to Executive Directors and senior management within Articles and best practice.
The Board considers his knowledge the Group.
Particular focus during 2015 was placed on increasing and experience as a corporate financial advisor will make him staff training to drive improvements in both health and safety and avaluable addition to the Board.
The Board also undertook a rigorous review of the Group Risk Performance evaluation and Register and the Groups systems of internal financial control.
professional development Further details of the results of which can be found on pages 51and 52.
During 2015 the Board undertook an evaluation, externally assisted by Advanced Boardroom Excellence ABE, based ontheprinciples outlined in the Governance Code.
ABE has Board diversity and independence noother connection to the Company.
The Board recognises that a diverse workforce can bring ABE conducted interviews with all Directors and the Company benets to the Group and by the same measure the Directors Secretary and reviewed the past 12 months Board and recognise the value diversity, including gender, can bring to the Committee meeting papers and minutes.
When considering the nomination and appointment of made a number of recommendations to take account of changes new Directors, the Nomination Committee evaluates candidates in corporate governance best practice.
The recommendations skills, knowledge and experience in order that they nominate include refreshing Board and Committee agendas and reporting.
new Directors on the basis of merit and overall suitability.
A number of the recommendations have been or are being When considering a new appointment the Board takes into implemented where improvement can be achieved.
account the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board.
During the year the Board reviewed its diversity The Chairman has discussed with all Directors their requirements policy, which required no changes.
for professional development and training and where appropriate this has been provided to Directors.
All Directors have access to The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors Richard the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and Pennycook, Jonathan Davie, Mark Preston, Marion Sears and may also seek independent professional advice and training at Rachel Kentleton to be independent.
Nigel Mills, a Senior Advisor theCompanys expense, if so required to carry out their duties.
at Citigroup Global Markets, will be joining the Board on 4 April 2016.
The Board considers that he will be independent on the date of his appointment because, whilst he is employed by one of the Companys advisors, he has not worked on the Companys business in the last three years.
His employer has put in place strict procedures to ensure that whilst he is a Director of the Company he has no access to Company information or analysis and does not professionally work for the Company in any capacity in the future.
The Company has procedures in place to ensure that Directors disclose any situation in which they may have an interest, direct or indirect, which conicts or may possibly conict with the interests of the Company.
No authority to authorise a conict of interest has been required during 2015.
Persimmon Plc 47 Annual Report December 2015 Corporate governance statement and Directors Report continued Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are Nicholas The Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the Wrigley Chairman, Richard Pennycook and Jonathan Davie.
Board in light of Nigel Greenaways retirement.
They agreed that The Committee met twice during 2015 to review the composition Dave Jenkinson should be promoted to Group Managing Director of the Board and to consider both Board and senior management in January this year, with responsibility for Group businesses and succession planning.
reporting directly to the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee also reviewed long term succession planning for the Groups The Committee considered the criteria required for the Regional Boards and internal management promotions during appointment of further non-executive Directors to refresh Board the year.
The criteria and requirements for an appointment were agreed by the Committee and included a requirement that When Richard Pennycook resigns following the AGM Marion Sears one candidate had to have extensive financial experience to be will take his place on the Committee.
able to serve on the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee An executive search rm the Zygos Partnership a member of the Association of Recruitment Consultants was appointed by The Remuneration Committee is responsible for establishing and the Committee to prepare a list of candidates for consideration.
updating the remuneration policy of the Chairman and Executive Zygos has no other connection with the Company.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are search was undertaken and the Committee reviewed the list of Jonathan Davie Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, Mark Preston and potential candidates.
A shortlist was agreed and the Committee Marion Sears.
interviewed each of the shortlisted candidates.
The Committee The Committee met five times during 2015 to discuss, consider subsequently recommended to the Board the appointment and approve the Executive Directors remuneration including of Rachel Kentleton who was appointed on 24 June 2015. the annual bonus plan for 2015, both in accordance with the The Committee did not use an agent or advertising to recruit remuneration policy approved by Shareholders at the AGM in NigelMills as he was previously known to the Directors who April 2014. considered his skills would be very beneficial to the Company.
The Committee recommended the appointment of Nigel Mills Further details of the remuneration policy and package for andon 6 January the Board approved his appointment to the each Director serving during 2015 together with the proposed Board with effect from 4 April 2016. implementation of the policy in 2016 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 71.
Rachel Kentleton has received a comprehensive induction about the Company which included extensive meetings and briengs from Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary and Head Ofce functional directors, principally on strategy and finance, but including legal issues, information technology and health and safety.
She also attended site visits and met divisional and regional management teams.
A similar process will be carried out for Nigel Mills on his appointment.
Persimmon Plc 48 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Audit Committee Composition 2015 priorities The Audit Committee members are Richard Pennycook The Audit Committees priorities main activities during 2015 were: Chairman, Jonathan Davie, Mark Preston and Rachel 1 To conduct a tender process for the Groups external audit.
Richard Pennycook, as Chairman of the Committee, has recent relevant financial experience as Chief Executive 2 The review and assessment of significant financial issues and of TheCo-operative Group and formerly as Group Finance the determination of the key risks ofmisstatement of the Groups Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc.
Mark Preston and financial statements relating to: Rachel Kentleton both have recent relevant financial experience the carrying value of the Groups available for sale financial in their current roles as Chief Executive of Grosvenor Group assets comprising shared equity receivables: and Limited and Group Director, Strategy and Implementation at EasyJet respectively.
the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress including the accuracy of cost recoveries.
The Committee met on six occasions during 2015 and all members were in attendance at each meeting.
The Committee 3 The Committees regular review of the Groups risk register, regularly meets the auditor without the presence of the Companys in particular: management.
The Committees Chairman also meets the Group monitoring the performance of the Groups health and safety Risk Manager without the Companys management being present strategy policy and procedures including the level of resources at least twice each year.
to increase site inspection and health and safety advisory When Richard Pennycook resigns following the AGM he will be roles, to mitigate risks associated with the Groups increase succeeded as Committee Chairman by Rachel Kentleton and in production: Marion Sears will join the Committee, replacing Mark Preston.
review of the continued implementation of the upgrade to new information technology systems across the Group: Role review of recruitment and training, given the Groups increase The Committees key priorities are the effective governance of the in stafng to meet its increase inproduction:and Groups financial reporting, the adequacy of related disclosures, review of the implementation of new procedures and the performance of the Group risk management function and the increased resources designed to improve customer care.
management of the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
The Committee also 4 The other key actions of the Committee during the year were: reviews and monitors the performance and independence of the full review of liquidity risk and whether the Group can continue Groups external auditor, the provision of additional services to to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts: the Group by the auditor and oversees the Groups relationship with them.
review of the Groups Viability Statement: Committee meetings generally take place prior to but on the same review of Half Year and Final Results: and day as Board meetings and the Committee Chairman provides review of the Groups current tax status.
the Board with a report on the activity of the Committee and the matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
Persimmon Plc 49 Annual Report December 2015 Corporate governance statement and Directors Report continued Appointment of new auditor Carrying value of land and work in progress including the accuracy of As reported last year, the Board agreed that it would re-tender the Group audit during 2015 and requested that the Audit Committee cost recoveries undertake the tender process and make a recommendation to The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal controls the Board.
The Audit Committee agreed the audit tender process exercised over the key processes employed by the Group in the and invited tenders from four leading audit rms, KPMG, Deloitte, acquisition of new land and the investment in site development PwC and Ernst & Young, in accordance with a disciplined tender activities.
The Committee receives regular reporting on process designed to deliver the best objective outcome for the managements adherence to the Groups policies and procedures Company.
The current auditor KPMG decided not to tender due in both of these critically important areas of the business.
tothe overall time period in which they could continue to serve as The carrying value of the Groups land totalled 2,046.7m at the Companys auditor.
31 December 2015, and the carrying value of work in progress Tender documents received were assessed according to a onsite totalled 517.9m.
scoring matrix prepared by a review team of senior management Similarly, the Committee ensures the approach adopted by and approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee management in recovering the cost of both land and work selected two rms to progress to the final phase of the tender in progress remains in line with established Group policies process, which involved final detailed presentations from the and procedures through regular risk monitoring reports.
After obtaining references the Audit Committee The Committee has again reviewed managements assessment of agreed on the preferred candidate and made arecommendation the net realisable value of the Groups land and work in progress to the Board.
The Committee concluded that The Board agreed with the Committees recommendation and on the approach adopted by management supported the asset 10 December 2015 approved the appointment of Ernst & Young as carrying values.
the Companys external auditor to succeed KPMG.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services External audit Order 2014.
KPMG LLP is the Groups external auditor for the financial year KPMG will not seek re-appointment as auditor following 2015 and they produce a detailed audit plan identifying their completion of the 2015 audit and shareholders will be asked assessment of key risks each year.
The significant risks identied to elect Ernst & Young as auditor at the AGM on 14 April were in relation to the carrying value of the Groups land and work 2016.
The Board wishes to express its thanks to KPMG for in progress including the accuracy of cost recoveries and the theprofessional approach with which the rm has fullled the carrying value of the Groups shared equity receivables.
external audit engagement terms as the Companys auditor Other areas of audit focus included testing of key controls, an overthe last 20 years.
assessment of the adequacy of closed site provisions held, accuracy of revenue recognition, valuation of the Groups dened Carrying value of shared equity receivables benefit pension scheme obligations, valuation of goodwill and The Committee monitors the effectiveness of internal controls intangible assets, accuracy of current tax accrual and deferred exercised over the key processes that are employed by the tax balances, and a review to confirm that the Group should Group in managing the second charge loans remaining due to properly be considered as a going concern and a review of the the Group under shared equity contracts entered into with some Viability Statement.
These are held as receivables and reported as The Committee considered the feedback from the Audit Quality available for sale financial assets on the Groups balance sheet.
Review Team of the Financial Reporting Council following a review At 31 December 2015 the carrying value of these receivables they undertook of the 2014 external audit.
Based on that review was 177.9m.
The Committee has reviewed the assumptions nomatters were raised that required attention.
adopted by management in support of the carrying value of these The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external receivables and concluded they are appropriate.
The Committee audit process annually with the auditor and the Companys monitors the ongoing performance of these receivables with management.
The Committee holds private meetings with the respect to redemptions and delinquency and are satisfied that auditor following each Committee meeting.
Matters discussed management have adopted appropriate assumptions in this regard include the auditors assessment of business risks and in support of the carrying value of these assets.
management activity thereon, the transparency and openness The Committee considers that the Group managements of interactions with management and conrmation that there has application of its accounting policies has resulted in a carrying been no restriction in scope placed on them by management.
value which appropriately reects the inherent risks of recoverability The Committee ensures that the auditor has exercised its of these shared equity receivables.
The Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the performance of KPMG LLP.
Persimmon Plc 50 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Committee formulates and oversees the Companys policy on The Audit Committee reviews the internal control and risk monitoring external auditor objectivity and independence in relation management systems in relation to the financial reporting process to non-audit services.
The auditor is excluded from undertaking a and in relation to the process of preparing consolidated accounts.
range of work on behalf of the Group to ensure that the nature of The Company has complied with the Governance Code provisions non-audit services performed or fee income earned relative to the on internal control, having continued to operate procedures audit fees does not compromise and is not seen to compromise necessary to implement the Guidance on Risk Management the auditors independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditor is Reporting, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business therefore not allowed to carry out appraisal or valuation services, Reporting issued by the FRC in September 2014 throughout management functions and litigation support, actuarial services, the year.
legal or remuneration services on behalf of the Group.
From time Senior management from the Finance Department monitor to time non-audit services are put out to tender to a number of the Groups financial management and reporting systems and suitable rms.
continually assess the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups Details of the audit fee and fees paid to KPMG LLP for non-audit accounting procedures.
Senior management from the Finance services are on page 88.
Non-audit fees principally relate to tax and Company Secretarial Departments review financial reports related computer software.
The ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees and trading updates with appropriate consultation with the Groups paid to the auditor in 2015 was 10 to 1. external advisors, ensuring that such reports and statements are accurate, complete and comply with all relevant legislation At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered and regulations.
Each operating business and Group function is whether the 2015 Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, required to report to the Group to ensure that all financial reporting balanced and understandable and whether it provided the is accurate and that all matters which may be material to the Group necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Companys as a whole have been reported to the Board.
Senior management position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit reports its findings to the Audit Committee and through that Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report Committee to the Board.
The Group Risk Department has facilitated an update to the Group The Board has recommended Ernst & Young be appointed as risk register during the year to reect changes to the prole of risks auditor subject to shareholder approval with effect from the AGM facing the Group.
The results of this process have been reported and if elected they will be undertaking the Companys 2016 audit.
to the Risk Committee and have been used to drive a risk focused The Audit Committee will oversee the transition of auditor from programme of work designed to improve business processes and KPMG to Ernst & Young.
increase internal control effectiveness to mitigate risk.
The updated Group risk register has been approved by both Risk and Audit Internal control and risk management Committees.
The principal risks faced by the Group set out on page 24 have been reviewed to reect the changes in the Groups Effective risk management is critical to the achievement of our risk prole, overall the risks faced by the Group have remained the objectives and the long term sustainable growth of our business.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role The Risk Committee met six times during 2015, ensuring there has of management to implement the Boards policies on risk control been an ongoing robust process for the identication, evaluation through the design and operation of appropriate internal control and management of the significant risks that are faced by the systems.
All employees have some responsibility for internal control Group.
The key features of reviewing the effectiveness of the as part of their responsibility for achieving objectives.
system of internal control include the following: The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing the review of reports produced by the Group Risk Department on Boards responsibilities with regard to risk and internal control.
internal control and management of risk: Specically, this includes determining appropriate control reviewing the reports from the Corporate Responsibility procedures and the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
Committee a sub-committee of the Risk Committee with The members of the Risk Committee during 2015 were Jeff particular reference to reputational, environmental, sustainability Fairburn Chairman, Rachel Kentleton, Mike Killoran, Nigel and social risks facing the Group: Greenaway and Dave Jenkinson.
Nigel Greenaway will retire from review of representations on risk and control from all Managing the Committee following the AGM on 14 April 2016.
The Risk Directors of operating businesses following individual reviews of Committee is supported by the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk internal control within their operating businesses: Committee reports to the Audit Committee, which oversees the Risk Committees activities.
review of representations on risk and control from both Group and divisional management: assessment of the security around IT infrastructure and customer information: and monitoring of whistleblowing reports or other significant control issues or incidents.
Persimmon Plc 51 Annual Report December 2015 Corporate governance statement and Directors Report continued Following review by the Risk Committee, where minor weaknesses The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for in internal controls were identied, action has been taken to improve consultation with major Shareholders.
The Company monitors and strengthen procedures as part of the regular fide-brieng of the constituents of its share register to ensure that its investor senior management by the Group Risk Department on conclusion relations communications are appropriately coordinated with its of their work.
The Board is provided with reports produced by equity analysts and the Executive Directors report to the Board Members of the Risk Committee completed the following tasks, as a whole following their presentations to or meetings with which are essential parts of the Groups risk control framework: Shareholders and analysts.
All Directors attend the Companys maintaining continuous detailed involvement in monitoring Annual General Meeting and are available to answer questions at and controlling work in progress and controls over land the meeting or privately.
acquisition assessment: The Company issues regular trading statements to the London regular site visits and discussions with site based personnel: Stock Exchange, as well as the publication of annual and half year financial results.
The Company provides Shareholders with access ongoing review of Group performance in comparison to to detailed presentations of results at its analyst presentations.
operational forecasts and financial budgets: and A live webcast of the event is available to the market, a recording involvement in each operating business board discussions, of which can be viewed on the Companys website for aperiod particularly operational board meetings where all aspects of ofone year after the event.
operation and performance were analysed.
significant shareholdings On completion of these processes the Risk Committee formally considered the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups As at 31 December 2015 and as at 22 February 2016, the system of internal control.
This review covers all material controls Company had been notied under the Financial Conduct including financial, operational and compliance controls, as well Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 of the following as the Groups risk management system.
There were no material interests in the voting rights of the Company: matters identied from the review.
The review for 2015 has been As at 31 December 2015 As at 22 February 2016 completed and approved by the Risk and Audit Committees % of total % of total and the Board.
A detailed Group Risk Department programme Number of voting Number of voting Nature of 1 1 of work for 2016 has also been approved by the Risk and Name voting rights rights voting rights rights holding Audit Committees.
BlackRock Inc 15,352,240 5.00 16,718,253 5.43 Indirect The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, in order to achieve business objectives.
Direct and However, the system can only provide reasonable assurances AXA S. A.
14,923,488 4.97 14,923,488 4.97 indirect and does not provide absolute assurance against material 1 Represents the number of voting rights last notied to the Company by the misstatement or loss.
respective shareholder in accordance with D. T. R. 5.1.
Terms of reference The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Terms of reference for the Board Committees are available on the This Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Directors Companys website www.
com or from Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 71, provides a description the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered ofce.
of how the main principles of the Governance Code have been applied within the Company during 2015.
Shareholder relations The Company complied with the Governance Code throughout The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good 2015 and continues to review its governance procedures to relations with the Companys Shareholders as they provide good maintain proper control and accountability.
The Governance perspectives on corporate governance matters and strategy.
Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council, telephone Jeff Fairburn and Mike Killoran have responsibility for maintaining 0207492 2300 or online atwww.
appropriate communications with institutional investors and analysts, advised by the Groups joint brokers Merrill Lynch and Citigroup, together with the financial PR consultants, Citigate Dewe Rogerson.
They hold scheduled meetings with major Shareholders regularly.
Jonathan Davie has responsibility for consulting with Shareholders and institutions on matters relating toremuneration policy.
Persimmon Plc 52 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors Report other disclosures Directors and Directors interests Persimmon Plc the Company is the holding company of The current Directors of the Company and their biographical the Persimmon Group of companies the Group and is a details are shown on pages 44 and 45.
Details of the Executive public company listed in the UK and traded on the London Directors service contracts are given in the Remuneration Report Stock Exchange.
All of the Directors served for the whole of the year, with the exception of Rachel Kentleton who was appointed on The Groups main trading companies are Persimmon Homes 24 June 2015.
Limited and Charles Church Developments Limited.
The Group trades under the brand names of Persimmon Homes, Charles The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors Church, Westbury Partnerships and Space4.
and their connected persons in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2015 and as at the date of this report are disclosed The subsidiary undertakings which principally affect the profits in the Remuneration Report on page 68.
Details of the interests of and assets of the Group are listed in note 31 to the Financial the Executive Directors in share options and awards of shares can Statements.
A complete list of the Companys subsidiaries and be found on page 67 within the same report.
residents management companies under its control are contained on pages 114 to 121.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Strategic Report The Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary The management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
R is resolution or by the Board of Directors.
A Director appointed by the included in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 39.
A description Board of Directors holds ofce until the next following AGM and is of the Groups future prospects, research and development, the then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Company may principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and details by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of of the Groups use of financial instruments are contained within their term of ofce.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and associated risk exposure In accordance with the Governance Code the Board has are given in note 21 of the Financial Statements.
determined that all Directors will be subject to annual re-election by Shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles in any event provide that at each AGM at least one third Results and return of cash of the Directors shall retire from ofce and shall be eligible for The Groups revenue for 2015 was 2,901.7m and its consolidated reappointment and therefore each Director shall retire from ofce profit before taxation was 629.5m.
and shall be eligible for reappointment at the AGM held in the third year following their last re-appointment.
In accordance with the The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not Articles and the Code, a Non-Executive Director who has been in exceeding the amount recommended by Directors subject to ofce for more than nine years consecutively shall retire at each statute.
The Directors may pay interim dividends and any xed rate AGM and shall be eligible for reappointment.
dividend whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors, justifies its payment.
Powers of the Directors All dividend and interest shall be paid subject to any lien of the Company to those members whose names are on the register The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors of members on the record date, notwithstanding any subsequent who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the transfer or transmission of shares.
Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given in general meetings.
In particular, the Directors may exercise all the As set out in the Chairmans Statement an interim dividend of powers of the Company to borrow money, issue and buy back 110pence per ordinary share will be paid on 1 April 2016 to shares with the authority of Shareholders, appoint and remove shareholders on the register at 6pm on 4 March 2016 under the Directors and recommend and declare dividends.
The total return for the year will be 110pence per share 2015: return of cash of 95pence per Capital structure share and there will be no final dividend paid for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The following description summarises certain provisions of the Articles adopted by special resolution passed on 19 March 2015 Going concern and the Companies Act 2006.
This is only a summary and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Articles should After completing a full review, the Directors have satisfied be consulted if further information is required.
A copy of the Articles themselves that the going concern basis for the preparation of the may be obtained by writing to the Group Company Secretary at accounts continues to be appropriate and there are no material the registered ofce.
uncertainties to the Companys ability to do so over a period of 12 months.
Amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made by way of special resolution in accordance with the provisions of the Further details are provided in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Persimmon Plc 53 Annual Report December 2015 Corporate governance statement and Directors Report continued On a vote on a show of hands, each member being an individual Share capital present in person or a duly authorised representative of a The Company has one class of share in issue, being ordinary corporation has one vote.
Each proxy present in person who has shares with a nominal value of 10pence each, which carry no right been appointed by one member entitled to vote on a resolution to xed income.
During 2015 238,394 ordinary shares were issued has one vote.
If a proxy has been appointed by more than one with a nominal value of 23,839.40 to employees exercising share member and has been given the same voting instructions by those options for cash consideration of 1,148,141.59.
At 22 February members, the proxy has one vote.
If the proxy has been appointed 2016 the issued share capital of the Company was 307,585,962 by more than one member and has been given conicting ordinary shares with a nominal value of 30,758,596.20. instructions, or instructions to vote for or against one member and Further details are provided in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
discretion by another, the proxy has one vote for and one vote against a resolution.
On a vote on a poll, each member present in In accordance with the resolution to return 95pence of cash to person or by proxy or by duly authorised representative has one Shareholders passed at the General Meeting on 19 March 2015, vote for each share held by the member.
The B shares were redeemed in Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29 of the their entirety for 95pence each on 2 April 2015 and immediately Financial Statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon Employment cancelled.
The C share dividend of 95pence per share was paid benefit Trust may vote or abstain on Shareholder resolutions as it on 2 April 2015 and the C shares reclassied as deferred shares sees t. and subsequently all purchased by the Company for a nominal sum of one penny.
The deferred shares were subsequently Transfer of shares cancelled on 14 April 2015.
As a result, the Company no longer has any B or C shares in issue.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company.
Any member may transfer their shares in writing in any Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other rights usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return of capital, or Directors and permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the UK voting or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by Listing Authority.
The Company is not aware of any agreements ordinary resolution determine or failing such determination as the between Shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer Directors may decide, subject to the provisions of the Companies of shares or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Act 2006 and other shareholders rights.
There are no securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Qualifying third-party indemnity The Directors may allot, grant options over, or otherwise dispose provisions and qualifying pension scheme of shares in the Company to such persons including the Directors indemnity provisions themselves at such times and on such terms as the Directors may think proper, subject to the Articles, the Companies Act The Company has not issued any qualifying third party indemnity 2006 and shareholders rights.
At the AGM on 16 April 2015 provision or any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision.
Shareholders gave Directors authority to issue up to one third of the issued share capital of the Company being an aggregate Change of control provisions nominal amount of 10,217,375 and to disapply pre-emption rights on the issues of shares up to 5% of the issued share capital, being One significant agreement contains provisions entitling an aggregate nominal amount of 1,532,606.
These authorities counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event will expire at the conclusion of the AGM on 14 April 2016. of a change of control of the Company.
Under the 300m credit Resolutions to renew these authorities will be put to Shareholders facility dated 1 April 2011 as amended and re-stated on 31 March at the forthcoming AGM.
2014 disclosed in note 21 of the Financial Statements, allamounts become due and payable under the terms of the facility ifany person or group of persons acting in concert gains control Votes of members ofthe Company.
All issued shares in the Company are fully paid and there are no Control has the same meaning as section 450 of the Corporation restrictions on voting rights.
Votes may be exercised in person, Tax Act 2010 and acting in concert has the meaning given to it by proxy, or in relation to corporate members by a corporate in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Change of control is representative.
The deadline for delivering either written or deemed to occur if at any time any person, or group of persons electronic proxy forms is not less than 48 hours before the time for acting in concert, acquires control of the Company.
To attend and vote at a meeting a shareholder must be entered on the register of members at a timethat is not The Company does not have agreements with any employee, more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, calculated including Directors, that would provide compensation for loss using business days only.
of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest ona takeover.
Persimmon Plc 54 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Emissions Annual General Meeting The Companys greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the The AGM will commence at 12 noon on Thursday 14 April 2016 at Strategic Report on page 37.
York Racecourse, Knavesmire Road, York YO23 1EX.
The Notice of Meeting and an explanation of the ordinary and special business are given in the AGM circular, which is available on the Companys Employee involvement website and which has been sent to shareholders.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on Disclosure of information to auditors matters affecting them as employees and on various financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this report The Group regularly updates its employment policies and all confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant employees have been issued with a staff handbook to keep them audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and up to date with information relating to their employment.
Each of that each Director has taken all steps he ought to have taken the Groups operating businesses maintains employee relations as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant and consults employees as appropriate.
Internal Group magazines audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is are published quarterly and distributed to all employees to ensure aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should they are kept well informed of the Groups operations.
In addition, be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 information concerning the financial performance of the Group is oftheCompanies Act 2006. sent to each operating business for circulation.
Directors responsibility The Company makes various benefit schemes available to employees, including a savings-related share option scheme which The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report encourages the awareness and involvement of employees in the and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and Groups performance.
All permanent employees are encouraged regulations.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and to participate.
Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess Equal opportunities the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Board reached this conclusion after receiving advice The Group policy is to have equal opportunities for training, from the Audit Committee.
Further details are provided on pages career development and promotion for all employees without 50 to 52. discrimination and apply fair and equitable policies which seek to promote entry into and progression within the Group.
By order of the Board Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability and competency regardless of race, Neil Francis colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, gender, sexual Group Company Secretary orientation, political beliefs, marital or civil partnership status, age, 22 February 2016 pregnancy or maternity or disability.
Applications for employment Persimmon Plc Company registration number 1818486 by disabled persons are always fully considered, with appropriate regard to the aptitude and abilities of the person concerned.
In the event of any employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, that appropriate training is arranged and any reasonable adjustments are made to their working environment.
It is the Groups policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Group has achieved accreditation for its approach to equality and diversity.
Acquisition of own shares At the AGM held on 16 April 2015 Shareholders granted the Company authority to purchase up to an aggregate of 30,652,125 of its own shares.
No shares have been purchased to date under this authority and therefore at 31 December 2015 the authority remained outstanding.
This authority expires on 14 April 2016 and a resolution to renew the authority will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
At 31 December 2015 the Company held no shares in treasury.
Persimmon Plc 55 Annual Report December 2015
