Pets at Home Group Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Executive Management Team Name Nick Wood Ian Kellett Sally Hopson MBE Peter Pritchard Phil Hackney Louise Stonier Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Services Commercial Director Logistics and Business Group Company Secretary Chief Executive Officer of Retail Systems Director & Legal Director 2012 2006 2008 2011 2007 2004 Joined Pets at Home Biography Nick joined Pets at Home as Chief Ian joined Pets at Home as Chief Sally joined Pets at Home in 2008 as Peter joined Pets at Home in January Phil joined Pets at Home in February Louise joined Pets at Home in 2004 Executive Officer in June 2012.
Prior Financial Officer in April 2006 and the Customer, People and Development 2011 as Commercial Director and his 2007 and has primary responsibility as Head of Legal and Company to that, from 2008 Nick was Chief following recent changes to a divisional Director and became Chief Executive key responsibilities are buying and for the Groups logistics, supply and Secretary and was promoted to Group Executive Officer of American Golf, management structure, on 4 June Officer of the Pets at Home Vet Group sourcing, marketing and omni-channel.
Phil graduated from Legal Director and Company Secretary a leading retailer of golfing equipment 2015, became Chief Executive Officer in 2013.
Following recent changes Peter has worked in retail for 25 years Nottingham Trent University before in 2008.
Louise is also a trustee of in the UK with over 90 standalone of the Pets at Home Retail Division.
to a divisional management structure in various senior operational and starting his career with Boots where he the charity Support Adoption for Pets.
Prior to that Nick spent ten Whilst the search for a new CFO on 4 June 2015, Sally became the commercial roles.
Previous companies spent 12 years in logistics operations.
Louise graduated from Nottingham years with DSG International plc now is underway, Ian will remain as CFO Chief Executive Officer of the Services include Asda, Sainsburys, Iceland, Phil then spent 6 years working for University with an LLB Hons and joined Dixons Retail where he was a member and commence the transition to Division and Group Development Marks and Spencer and Wilkinson Tech Data, a global IT distributor, CMS Cameron McKenna as a trainee of the executive committee and held his new CEO role.
Ian also supports and Property Director with overall Hardware Stores.
Peter has a Masters initially as the UK Logistics Director solicitor.
After qualifying as a Corporate a number of senior management the Groups veterinary business as responsibility for the Groups store and Degree in Business Administration on e-commerce fulfillment operations solicitor in 1999, Louise moved to DLA roles including as managing director a member of their operational board.
format development, Group property from Stirling University.
before taking on responsibility for Piper LLP and, as an associate in the of The Link, a mobile phone retailer, Previous to his time at Pets at Home, division and the Groups pet services logistics operations in Northern Europe Corporate Team, acted on a number and as managing director of Dixons.
Ian was finance director of Staples offer, notably vets, grooming and and latterly was part of a business of corporate finance and M&A Nick graduated from Gonville and retail business in the United Kingdom insurance.
team integrating mobile phone transactions.
Caius College, Cambridge in 1989 with between 20042006 and deputy distribution from the US to the a Masters Degree in Manufacturing finance director of JD Wetherspoon plc Sally joined Pets at Home in December European business.
2008 from Asda where she held a number of senior roles over 14 years.
After graduating from the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London with a degree in Middle Eastern History, Sally joined the graduate scheme at Habitat and began a long and enjoyable career in retailing.
Sally is also a Non-Executive Director for the Retail Trust and for Jardiland, a French garden centre chain.
A particular interest in diversity led to a four year period as a commissioner on The Women in Work Commission and the Learning and Skills Council which was recognised in an MBE awarded in 2006.
Pets Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 69 Governance Report pages 76 to 81 Name Nick Wood Ian Kellett Sally Hopson MBE Peter Pritchard Phil Hackney Louise Stonier Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Services Commercial Director Logistics and Business Group Company Secretary Chief Executive Officer of Retail Systems Director & Legal Director 2012 2006 2008 2011 2007 2004 Joined Pets at Home Biography Nick joined Pets at Home as Chief Ian joined Pets at Home as Chief Sally joined Pets at Home in 2008 as Peter joined Pets at Home in January Phil joined Pets at Home in February Louise joined Pets at Home in 2004 Executive Officer in June 2012.
