Audit Committee report Ren Mdori Chairman of the Audit Committee Role of the Committee Principal matters considered during the year by the Audit and Board Risk Committees: Monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements January 2015 and reviews significant financial reporting judgements.
Ernst & Young EY regulatory update on auditor rotation Reviews the effectiveness of risk management and internal and independence control systems, including viability statements, and provides Key Risk Report KRR and risk management systems assurance to the Board.
Strategic risks related to the Petrofac JSD6000 vessel Treasury report including policy review Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal Group HSSE framework and HSE performance at third party locations audit function.
Compliance update including 2015 plan and whistleblowing report Reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process and February 2015 independence of the external auditors.
Internal control framework assurance Approves the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Internal audit full year report and draft 2015 plan external auditors and makes recommendations to the Board EY full year report including letters of representation regarding their re-appointment.
Hydrocarbon reserves assessment: long term contracting and impairment reports: and financial counterparty limits Develops and implements the non-audit services policy.
2014 results and announcement, including all relevant reports Advises the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities Final dividend consideration Non-audit services transactions and fees and considers whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken Code of Conduct certification and related party transaction reports as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
May 2015 KRR and risk management systems including examination Terms of reference of principal risks Terms of reference setting out the role and responsibilities of the Insurance programme renewal update Committee were reviewed during the year.
Amendments were Security and compliance reports made to widen the Committees remit following the disbandment Approval of appointment of KPMG to review cost controls in of the Board Risk Committee and to incorporate Committee relation to the Laggan-Tormore project and assess the internal membership changes.
Copies are available on our website.
control framework in the OEC lump-sum contract portfolio August 2015 Membership and attendance at meetings Outcome of KPMG reviews held during 2015 Internal audit progress report EY half year report and audit planning report for the full year 1 Members Meetings attended eligible Investment and impairment reports regarding the carrying value of 2 Ren Mdori 5 5 IES assets: and appropriateness of Companys accounting policies Thomas Thune Andersen 5 5 2015 half year results and announcement, including all relevant reports 3 Dividend policy review and interim dividend payment Matthias Bichsel 2 2 Annual review of external auditors independence and effectiveness Kathleen Hogenson 5 5 Revised terms of reference 1 A ll members of the Committee are considered independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code.
2 R en Mdori is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience in November 2015 compliance with the UK Code.
Internal audit progress report and draft 2016 plan 3 Matthias Bichsel joined the Committee on 14 May 2015.
EY external audit progress report including changes to scope In addition, a Board Risk Committee meeting was held in January Accounting issues review ahead of year end 2015 under our previous governance structure.
This was attended Regulatory and governance update and KRR review by all Committee members.
An ad hoc telephonic meeting of the The Companys compliance with its tax and whistleblowing obligations Committee was also held at short notice in May 2015, which was Treasury and security updates attended by Ren Mdori and Matthias Bichsel.
84 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Dear shareholder In considering the financial statements for 2015, the Committee As has been previously reported, 2015 continued to be a concentrated on revenue and margin recognition for significant challenging year for Petrofac, not least because of the operational OEC contracts, together with the carrying value of IES assets and execution issues on key projects but also as a result of the in light of the current low oil price.
The Committee concluded tougher external environment in general.
Throughout the year, that management had adopted an appropriate approach in all the Committee continued to support the Board in its response significant areas.
As part of the Committees year-end review, to key concerns.
it also conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, as detailed on pages 30 to 33, including In April 2015, Stefano Cao stepped down from the Board.
As a those that may threaten the Companys strategy, business model, consequence, the Board took the opportunity to review its Board future performance, solvency and liquidity.
committee structures and decided to incorporate the Board Risk Committee into the Audit Committee.
As a result of this change, As part of the year-end process, the Committee reported to the the remit of the Audit Committee was widened to encompass all Board in February 2016 that aside from the findings in relation aspects of risk management and internal control systems, whilst to the Laggan-Tormore project discussed above, which have the Board retained its responsibility for oversight of the Groups been mitigated prior to the approval of the Accounts, the Group principal risks.
On his appointment in May 2015, Matthias Bichsel continues to operate a sound system of controls and, when taken joined the Committee.
All members of the Committee have a wide as a whole, it considers the Annual Report and Accounts to be range of business experience across various industries which fair, balanced and understandable, providing shareholders with allows us to work effectively and challenge management.
the necessary information to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
During the course of the year, at the Boards request, the Committee focused its attention on reviewing aspects of the Along with continuing to monitor and review the effectiveness Groups internal control and risk management processes.
This of the Groups risk management and internal control framework, followed the further unanticipated losses on the Laggan-Tormore the Committees priorities for 2016 are as follows: project announced in April 2015.
To this end, an independent review by KPMG was commissioned.
The review comprised two Review of revenue and cost recognition in respect phases and further details relating to the assessment of the cost of key contracts controls on the Laggan-Tormore project and the considerations Effective identification of business environment risks in respect of the potential restatement of the 2014 financial and their mitigation statements are set out in the report on page 86.
KPMG also Ensuring that the provisions of the UK Code are met undertook a review of the Groups internal control framework in relation to risk management and internal controls in the lump-sum OEC contract portfolio more broadly and Review of taxation matters in light of the enhanced global suggested certain improvements.
reporting environment Separately, management undertook a review of the operational Key issues discussed by the Committee are reported to the control failings on the Laggan-Tormore project and the OEC Board after each scheduled meeting and this practice will operational control framework in general, focusing on execution continue, thus ensuring any significant matters are considered issues and how lessons learnt had been implemented.
result, the Committee agreed that the ability to identify, assess and understand risks in a timely manner had progressed, allowing effective mitigation of risks when necessary and greater visibility Ren Mdori over critical events.
It is expected that these lessons learnt will Chairman of the Audit Committee now provide greater assurance and oversight of risk throughout 23 February 2016 the organisation.
Other matters considered by the Committee during the year are detailed in the following report.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 85 Audit Committee report continued Activities during the year Major internal control themes were considered at each meeting, The Committee assists the Board in the effective discharge of with particular attention given by the Committee to any weaknesses its responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and risk identified and the need for a systematic approach to be taken management.
As set out in our Directors statements on page 107, for managing risk.
As well as regular reports from the Group Directors are responsible for the preparation of Group financial Head of Enterprise Risk, further reports were provided by statements, in accordance with International Financial Reporting senior management and comprised deep-dives into the Standards IFRS.
The Group has an internal control and risk effectiveness of health and safety processes including at third management framework in place, which includes policies and party locations, strategic risks related to the Petrofac JSD6000, procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are financial counterparty risk assessments, compliance contraventions, maintained and transactions are accurately recorded.
This ensures security, and information technology.
These reports, together that the Companys financial reports, including the financial reporting with other sources of information, have provided a balanced process, and communications to the market give a clear and assessment of the principal risks and the effectiveness of the balanced assessment of the Companys position.
In addition to systems of internal control.
the matters considered during the year, as set out on page 84, the Committee also reviewed the 2015 full year results and this Any control failings or weaknesses identified are discussed in Annual Report and Accounts, at the beginning of 2016. these reports including, for example, Laggan-Tormore related matters, compliance issues or whistleblowing statistics, along Internal controls and risk management with the underlying reasons, the impact that they have had The Board maintains oversight for enterprise risk and, in particular, on the Company, and the actions being taken to rectify them.
establishes the Companys risk appetite.
It identifies and conducts When reviewing these individual reports, the Committee a robust assessment of principal risks facing the Company and considered how effectively risks have been identified: how they their connection to viability.
Following the disbandment of the have been mitigated and managed: whether actions are being Board Risk Committee in May 2015, responsibility for monitoring taken promptly to remedy any failings or weaknesses: and and reviewing the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups whether the causes of the failing or weakness have indicated overall systems of risk management and internal controls, in poor decision-taking or a need for more extensive monitoring accordance with the requirements of the FRCs Guidance on Risk or a reassessment of process effectiveness.
Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, was delegated to the Committee.
The Committees In May 2015, as part of an internal lessons learnt analysis following remit was therefore broadened to consider strategic, financial, the identification of potential significant control weaknesses, the operational, and compliance controls, rather than principally Committee appointed KPMG to carry out an independent review, focusing on the Companys financial controls.
As a result of this specifically related to the LagganTormore project.
The review extended remit, the Committee now provides the Board with wider focused on project management and cost estimation processes assurance that the risk management and internal control systems, with a view to assessing whether the financial statements for as a whole, are sufficiently robust to mitigate the principal risks.
2014 should be re-stated to reflect some or all of the incremental losses incurred on the project during 2015.
As a result of the The effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls losses incurred, intense scrutiny has been given to whether the is founded on our enterprise risk management ERM and internal process for ongoing management and cost estimation in respect control frameworks.
Our ERM framework is based upon BS ISO of this and other lump-sum projects was sufficiently robust.
31000:2009, with our internal control assurance being provided in accordance with the revised COSO framework.
Following the The Committee carefully considered the extensive analysis by introduction of the revised UK Code and FRC guidance, we KPMG and, after hearing the views of both EY and management, made a number of enhancements to align our methodologies recommended to the Board that there should be no restatement for identifying, evaluating and managing risk during the course of of the 2014 financial statements.
Our risk management systems are continually evolving, with operational processes becoming more systematised by The KPMG review also considered the adequacy of the Companys moving risks into our Petrofac Enterprise Risk Management internal control framework by reviewing a representative sample System PERMS database.
The KRR identifies the principal of other lump-sum contracts in the OEC portfolio.
The Committee risks facing the Group and includes heatmap analysis.
It is part discussed the control weaknesses highlighted by both KPMG of the framework for determining risk and risk appetite and is and management, who had conducted a separate review at the a live document which highlights recent movements in exposure, request of the Committee.
The Committee concluded that the thereby allowing the Committee to recognise and review the processes associated with Laggan-Tormore, while representing mitigation and or management of new or changing risks.
This a significant control weakness on this particular project, were report was considered at both Committee and Board level not indicative of wider systematic failings within the portfolio but throughout the year and further details are included within the arose due to a number of shortcomings, principally an inability Strategic Report on pages 26 to 29. to understand and cost the risks associated with lump-sum construction execution within the UK.
86 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Management have implemented a number of improvements to Internal audit its procedures and controls in light of the issues identified and To assist the Committee in monitoring and reviewing the integrity the Committee is satisfied that lessons had been learnt which of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, are now being implemented across the wider Group.
the Group Head of Internal Audit attends each meeting, where his reports are considered and discussed in detail.
This, along with Assurance reports from the external auditors, provides the Committee with At the year end, formal assurance was provided to the Board oversight and assurance that the Groups risk management and that effective governance, risk management and internal control internal control processes are operating effectively.
Additionally, processes were in place, as required by the UK Code, to ensure the Committee also meets separately with the Group Head of that the Group would continue to be viable for at least the Internal Audit in advance of the full and half year results without next three years.
This assurance covered all material controls, executive management being present to discuss, among including strategic, financial, operational and compliance controls.
other matters, managements responsiveness to internal audit recommendations and the effectiveness of the internal audit Treasury process.
The Group Head of Internal Audit also has direct access During the year, the Committee reviewed the financial risks to the Committee Chairman and meets with the external auditors associated with liquidity, commodity price risk and associated whenever required.
hedging options, and foreign exchange rate risk.
In addition, following the disbandment of the Board Risk Committee, the The Companys annual internal audit plan was considered and Board delegated the authority to the Committee to consider and, approved by the Committee in February 2015.
This was developed if thought fit, amend the Companys suite of treasury policies as taking into account the outcomes of the previous years report, the set out in the Companys Sovereign and Financial Market Risk external audit environment and discussions held with the Committee policy SFMR a copy of which is available at www.
and senior management to ensure alignment with the Groups risk In their review of the SFMR policy, the Committee considered appetite and business needs.
In approving the plan, the Committee the level of the Companys financial counterparty risk exposures gave consideration to the Companys principal risks and whether and agreed that the existing policies remained appropriate.
the plans geographic coverage was appropriate.
Summary The Committee took comfort that the Group Treasury team progress reports were provided at each subsequent meeting, actively monitors all credit exposures with each financial detailing key findings of audits undertaken in the period under institution and noted that progress was being made on the review.
When significant areas of concern were highlighted by implementation of an updated Treasury Management System.
the reports, the Committee challenged management and, where required, action plans to address any matters raised were agreed, Insurance Programme with follow-up reviews arranged.
Any required revisions to the plan Given the scale and nature of the Groups activities, Petrofac were considered and approved by the Committee during the year.
continued to develop its global insurance programme coverage during 2015 by strengthening its relationship with the Groups During 2015, 98 internal audit assignments were carried out.
Following work instigated in 2014, Weaknesses identified included subcontractor management further claims scenario workshops were carried out during 2015 procedures, project cost controls and scheduling on certain OEC within OEC and OPO, in conjunction with our insurers, brokers and projects, financial and operational controls in remote or smaller loss adjusters.
The principal objective was to stress-test the existing entities and IT procedures regarding the ERP system in different policies in order to provide assurance that the Groups insurance business units.
These findings were carefully considered by arrangements remain fit for purpose and that the insurance the Committee, with management given direction to ensure programme is able to respond as expected in the event of a loss.
the necessary steps were taken to mitigate any arising issues.
Following on from the work initiated in 2013, further fraud risk Policy limits, deductibles and wording are reviewed each year assessment exercises within the OPO business and in IES at programme renewal to ensure that the optimum mix of policy Mexico were completed during 2015.
At the end of each coverage and competitive terms are in place.
As a result of the assessment, the Committee was provided with a full review claims workshops, wording enhancements were incorporated and given updates on the controls implementation process.
Further developments in our programme are expected during 2016 following a full market-testing exercise for our major policies.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 87 Audit Committee report continued Significant judgements The Committees role is to assess whether the judgements or estimations made by management in preparing the accounts are reasonable and appropriate.
Set out below are what we consider to be the most significant accounting areas which required a high level of judgement or estimation during the year and how these were addressed: Focus area Why this area is significant Role of the Committee Conclusion Revenue and The quantification and timing of the The Committee reviewed the reasonableness of The Committee concluded that margin recognition recognition of revenue and profit judgements made regarding the cost to complete the quantification and timing of including ECOM earned from all contracts, including estimates, the timing of recognition of variation revenue and margin recognition long term contracts fixed-price engineering, orders and the adequacy of contingency provisions continues to be in line with IFRS and IES contractual arrangements procurement and construction, to mitigate contract specific risks for projects requirements but it will continue to operations & maintenance and significantly behind schedule.
Consideration was monitor this situation going forward.
See note 2 for IES arrangements is an important also given to the assessments made in relation to further information driver of the reported business the recognition of liquidated damage provisions performance of the Group.
and to the impact of certain larger contracts being entered into as part of consortiums.
The Committee held discussions with Executive Directors and received regular internal audit reports into the operating effectiveness of internal controls relevant to these judgements.
The external auditors challenged management on the revenue recognition amounts and reported their findings to the Committee.
Impairment and fair With extreme recent volatility in IES impairment test results were presented to The Committee was satisfied that value changes in IES commodity prices and project the full Board at the year end and at the half year.
the results of the detailed asset assets and JSD6000 delivery issues arising on IES These tests were based on rigorous assessments impairment testing were reasonable projects it is important to assess performed by the IES finance team and checked and ensured that appropriate See note 2 for further information regularly the appropriate carrying by the external auditors and were subsequently impairment and fair value values of the investment portfolio reviewed in detail by the Committee.
Discussions adjustments were recorded in through a robust impairment in relation to the future plans in respect of the the Annual Report and Accounts.
testing process, particularly as the Groups deepwater strategy were also held to potential amounts involved are determine the appropriate assumptions taken in material to the Groups reported net relation to the JSD6000 vessel.
The impact in income and balance sheet position.
particular of the negative oil price movement and In addition, the cancellation of the its effect on asset impairment testing was JSD6000 shipyard construction considered as part of the year-end review process contract poses a risk to the together with any changes in forecast production recoverable value of the vessel.
levels, operating expenditure and capital expenditure for each of the IES assets.
Taxation The wide geographical spread of The tax positions within the Group were The Committee were satisfied the Groups operations and the reviewed by the Committee to ensure that the that Group tax issues were being See note 2 for increasingly complex nature of local Groups effective tax rate, tax provisions and the efficiently monitored and dealt with further information tax rules in different jurisdictions recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities appropriately, but recent significant increases the risk of misstatement continue to be appropriate.
Taxation issues changes in the global tax landscape of tax charges and management were discussed with senior management and mean that the Company must needs to make a number of difficult a report outlining key tax issues was reviewed.
continue to work on its ability to judgements around tax exposures The external auditor also reported to the respond quickly to the enhanced given the commercial structure of Committee on the findings of their audit of global reporting requirements over individual contracts.
the Groups tax charge and provisions.
Laggan-Tormore In light of the challenges faced The Committee commissioned KPMG to carry The Committee concluded that considerations in determining the losses on the out a review of the circumstances leading to the weaknesses in internal controls Laggan-Tormore contract, it was market announcement in April 2015, with a view in respect of the project subsisted See note 2 for imperative that appropriate to identifying issues from the Laggan-Tormore up to and including 2015, but noted further information consideration was given to contract as they related to incremental losses and that management have implemented accounting for the project, careful their potential effect on the prior year.
The KPMG a number of mitigation actions and scrutiny given to key judgements, review also considered the Groups internal controls assigned further resources to mitigate and for potential internal control in respect of the Laggan-Tormore project and in the the risk of further misstatements weaknesses to be identified lump-sum OEC contract portfolio more broadly.
both in relation to this and other and mitigated.
The Committee also received management reports contracts.
The Committee was also highlighting key judgements made in relation to satisfied that the key judgements liquidated damages and costs-to-complete.
adopted at year-end were appropriate.
88 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance External auditors Non-audit services Ernst & Young LLP EY, the Companys auditors since initial To safeguard the objectivity of our external auditors and to ensure listing in October 2005, provided the Committee with reports and the independence of the audit is not compromised, the Company advice throughout the year.
The Committee remains satisfied as has a non-audit services policy that provides clear definitions of to the auditors effectiveness and, in making this assessment, services that our external auditors may and may not undertake.
had due regard to their expertise and understanding of the Group, To ensure compliance with this policy, the Committee regularly their resourcing capabilities, culture, independence and objectivity.
reviews the Groups cumulative non-audit spend and, furthermore, In addition, the Committee took into account its own interaction gives prior approval to the appointment of EY should the nature or with EY, the preparatory steps taken by EY in advance of scheduled size of the proposed work require it.
Taking into account reports meetings, and the observations of executive management.
from both management and EY, the Committee is satisfied that EYs objectivity and independence has not been impaired by any The Committee met with the auditors without management present non-audit work undertaken by them during the year.
In addition, to discuss any significant issues, not least the conduct of the audit, EY has confirmed that it was compliant with APB Ethical Standards in advance of the full and half year results.
In addition, the Committee in relation to the audit engagement.
Chairman has regular contact with the lead audit partner outside of formal Committee meetings, not only to discuss formal agenda items There were no breaches in 2015 of the US$300,000 non-audit for upcoming meetings, but also to review any other significant matters.
threshold requiring prior approval by the Committee.
During the year, the Committee also reiterated the importance of ensuring the Each year, EY set out their proposed audit strategy and scope to non-audit fee remained below 50% of the total audit fee and the ensure that the audit is aligned with the Committees expectations.
non-audit spend for the year, as a percentage of the overall audit This is done with due regard to identification and assessment of fee, was 31.6% 2014: 21%.
The majority of these costs relate to business and financial statement risks which could impact the the use of EY in certain jurisdictions, mainly in North Africa, the audit and continuing developments within the Group.
In 2015, this Middle East and Central Asia, to provide advice and in-country included the additional losses recognised on the Laggan-Tormore tax compliance services.
It is felt that, given EYs knowledge of project, arising from an increased cost-to-complete estimate, and the Group and their presence in these regions, they continue to progression of commercial negotiations on the IES assets.
Where be the most appropriate provider of this work.
Details of the fees changes to the audit scope have occurred during the year, the in respect of audit and non-audit related services can be found Committee has been encouraged by the auditors interaction with on page 136 and in note 4e to the financial statements.
the Committee Chairman and management to ensure no adverse impact occurs to the overall audit process.
At year end, a report The amended UK and EU audit legislation will introduce increased was provided to the Committee detailing areas of audit risk, the restrictions on audit firms providing certain non-audit services from findings of which were reviewed and considered by the Committee.
These restrictions will be considered by the Committee along with the Mandatory Auditor Rotation rules to ensure that the Audit tender successful tender candidate is independent upon commencement The UK Competition and Markets Authoritys CMA Statutory of any new audit engagement.
The Committee, however, considers Audit Services Order Order states, amongst other matters, that the existing policy remains appropriate and fit-for-purpose that FTSE 350 listed companies should put their external audit but will revisit the policy during 2016 in light of the new regulations.
contract out to public tender at least every 10 years.
During the This exercise will be reported on in next years Annual Report.
year, the Committee gave consideration to this legislation, as The current policy, a copy of which can be found on the Companys well as to the UK Code and the EUs audit legislation, which will website, is summarised below.
It has been agreed that the Companys audit contract will be put to competitive tender during Non-audit services policy 2016, with a view to appointing an external auditor for the year The external auditors are automatically prohibited from carrying ended 31 December 2017.
The Committee believes that such out work which might impair their objectivity.
a competitive tender exercise will be in the best interests of The Chief Financial Officer CFO will seek approval from the shareholders as it will ensure continuing scrutiny and objectivity Committee before appointing the external auditors to carry of the audit.
This tender process is earlier than originally reported, out a piece of non-audit work where: as it was previously proposed to tender the audit after the end the fee is above US$300,000: or of our current audit partner tenure in 2018.
The Committee will total non-audit fees for the year are approaching report on how this exercise was undertaken and its outcome 50% of the annual audit fee: or in next years report.
In addition, the Committee confirms the external auditors would ordinarily be prohibited compliance with the provisions of the CMA Order.
from carrying out the work under the Companys non-audit services policy, but not prohibited under Ethical Standard 5, and the CFO wants to appoint them due to exceptional circumstances.
The CFO may appoint the external auditor to do other types of non-audit work as listed in the policy.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 89
