Governance Corporate Governance report Leadership held, allowing matters to be discussed both ensuring all Directors contribute during Board organisation before and after they are considered by meetings through their individual and Our Chairman is responsible for leading the the Board.
This enables them to reach a collective experience, challenge and support.
Board and ensuring its effectiveness, whilst mutual understanding of each others views, maintaining a clear structure that permits especially in matters where initially they may Each of the Directors has varied career the Board to both challenge and support not be in agreement.
histories and considerable effort has been management.
It is very important that all taken to ensure that the Board has the Directors see the Chairman as a fair and Thomas Thune Andersen, as SID, is available right balance of skills, diversity and industry impartial individual.
The relationships to shareholders to answer any questions or expertise.
Our Non-executive Directors between the Chairman and the Group concerns which cannot be addressed by are encouraged to share their skills and Chief Executive and the Senior Independent either the Chairman or the Group Chief experience and each is well-positioned Director SID are of particular importance, Executive and is also available to marshal to support management, whilst providing as these two individuals represent the the opinions and views of the Non-executive constructive challenge.
We are also views of management and Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman and SID maintain fortunate that many of our Directors are Directors, respectively.
regular contact between scheduled Board able to bring their experience of the oil meetings and time is also set aside at each and gas industry to the boardroom.
Ayman Asfari, as Group Chief Executive, meeting for the Chairman to meet with is responsible for the day-to-day the Non-executive Directors without the management of the Group and for the presence of management.
design and execution of company strategy.
He is supported by his fellow Executive The combination of these meetings ensures Directors and by his senior management that the Chairman is equally informed team whose details are outlined on page about the views of both management and 72.
Regular private meetings between the Non-executive Directors and this assists Chairman and Group Chief Executive are him in setting Board meeting agendas and Position Role Board composition and roles Chairman Leads the Board and facilitates the effective contribution of all Directors At the date of this report, the Board has Ensures effective communication with shareholders eight Directors comprising the Chairman, Ensures effective communication flows between Directors four Non-executive Directors and three Ensures effective Board governance Executive Directors.
Full biographies of Group Chief Implements strategy and objectives each of our Directors in office are shown Executive Develops manageable goals and priorities on pages 70 and 71 and are also included Leads and motivates management teams in the 2016 Notice of Annual General Develops proposals to present to the Board on all areas reserved Meeting AGM.
As recommended by for its judgement the UK Code, the Company has clearly Develops Group policies for approval by the Board and ensures defined areas of responsibility, as set implementation out opposite: Senior Acts as a sounding board and confidant to the Chairman Independent Available to shareholders to answer questions which cannot be Director addressed by the Chairman or Group Chief Executive Meets with other Directors to appraise the Chairmans performance, and on such other occasions as deemed appropriate Acts as an intermediary for other independent Directors Non-executive Support executive management whilst providing constructive challenge Directors Monitor the delivery of strategy within the risk management framework set by the Board Bring sound judgement and objectivity to the Boards decision making process Share skills and experience Group Director of Acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees Legal, Secretarial Assists in and coordinates the Board evaluation process & Compliance Ensures the Board is kept informed and is consulted on all matters Services reserved to it and that papers and other information are delivered in a timely manner Ensures the Board is kept informed on governance matters, providing advice through the Chairman Available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures and provides general support and advice Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 73 Corporate Governance report continued How the Board spent its time during How the Audit Committee spent its time Board activity during 2015 during the year the year The Board has a schedule of matters % % reserved to it for formal decision, a copy of which is available on our website.
7 10 21 While we recognise that there are a number of topics for which all boards 44 should take responsibility, this year the 30 39 13 Board concentrated on the following key areas, in support of the Companys 15 strategic objectives, which were 8 3 5 5 underpinned by our core values.
Financial performance reporting Internal control and risk management systems Governance, inc. shareholder engagement Code of Conduct Whistleblowing Risk management and internal controls Tax update Leadership and people development, External Audit, including non-audit inc. succession services review Strategic matters Financial reporting Project approvals Governance Other Strategic matters Formal strategy review days with management, including updates at each meeting How the Nominations Committee spent its time Business presentations on strategic opportunities during the year % Risks and opportunities associated with our OCP strategy Future initiatives relating to IES business, including Mexican contract migrations Business restructuring 15 18 Financial performance reporting 12 Extensively considered the Groups financial performance, in light of key contract positions as well as the effect of the declining oil price Approved the budget and five-year plan and reviewed monthly reports on performance against budget and forecast 55 Reviewed the Companys financial reporting obligations Reviewed reports on the financial position of the Group, including treasury management Board composition Leadership and people development, including succession Succession planning Meetings held with executive management throughout the year Governance Other Discussed Board succession planning and composition, including a review of committee Search for Directors structures, following changes to the Board membership Reviewed the development of talent within the Group, including succession planning for senior roles Consideration of the impact of the Group reorganisation How the Remuneration Committee spent its time during the year Risk management and internal controls % Extensive review of the Laggan-Tormore project and lessons learnt Reviewed contract controls by KPMG and the impact on financial results Deep dives on key projects to understand fully any risk management and control matters 20 Regularly reviewed significant enterprise risks, including those associated with HSSEIA and cyber security 10 53 Project approvals In accordance with our delegated authority framework, a number of contracts and other 10 matters requiring Board approval were considered during the year.
Whilst many of these 7 projects are still within the bidding stage, further details of projects approved and announced during the year can be found on pages 4 and 5 2015 remuneration arrangements, including grant of awards Governance, including shareholder engagement Review of external environment Discussed the Board evaluation process 2016 remuneration review Regularly reviewed reports from brokers and had an in-depth presentation from Governance Other our house brokers Review of share plans and Reviewed shareholder feedback from meetings held with the Group Chief Executive, performance conditions Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman Reviewed reports on regulatory and governance matters impacting the organisation 74 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Related pages Our strategic review p20 Group financial statements p108 Board meetings Each year, members of operational and Board appointment and selection The Board meets face-to-face at least six functional management, one and two tiers The Company has a formal, rigorous and times each year at scheduled meetings, below director level, are invited to attend transparent selection procedure for the held over a two-day period.
The Board also and present at certain Board and Committee appointment of new Directors and Board meets on an ad hoc telephonic basis, to meetings, which serves to enhance their composition is considered very carefully address items of business which arise and knowledge of the business and allows by the Nominations Committee, whose cannot be held over until the next planned the Board to see the implementation of membership is set out on page 82.
Dedicated strategy days, as well agreed strategy in action.
It is felt these a result, significant time and effort are as site visits, also form part of our annual presentations also enable Directors to invested when appointing new Board programme of events.
As a company deepen their understanding of Company members to ensure that the right balance incorporated in Jersey under the culture at a local level, and gain an and mix of directors, taking into account Companies Jersey Law 1991, at least awareness of specific nuances which experience, skills and diversity, can be half of our Board meetings are held in may not always be obvious within written achieved.
Care is taken to establish the Jersey each year.
At those meetings which reports.
Management are also given the existing commitments of all Non-executive are held outside Jersey, the Board is given opportunity to meet the Directors informally Directors, who, on appointment, are each the opportunity to meet with employees, during the year and we feel these meetings made aware of the need to allocate sufficient customers, suppliers and partners, as it are valuable for personal development.
time to the Company to discharge their is felt this allows the Board to gain a Arrangements are also made for the responsibilities effectively.
In the event that wider understanding of Petrofac.
Non-executive Directors to meet with a Directors external commitments change and speak to a group of graduates at the once appointed, they are required to make Petrofac Academy while they are in Sharjah.
the Board aware as soon as practicable so that any potential conflict of interest, time commitment challenge or residency status issue can be considered.
A detailed Ad-hoc telephonic report on the activities of the Nominations Board meetings usually Physical Board held at short notice Committee is provided on pages 82 to 83. meetings attended and attendance must 4 Director Independent eligible to attend take place outside of UK Active debate is encouraged during Rijnhard van Tets Yes 6 6 2 meetings before any Board decisions Thomas Thune Andersen Yes 6 6 1 are taken, with all Directors encouraged 1 Matthias Bichsel Yes 3 3 2 to be open and forthright in their approach.
Kathleen Hogenson Yes 6 6 3 We believe this boardroom culture helps Ren Mdori Yes 6 6 1 to forge strong working relationships whilst enabling our Directors to engage fully with Ayman Asfari No 6 6 1 the Company and allowing them to make Marwan Chedid No 6 6 3 their best possible contribution.
Tim Weller No 6 6 2 Former Directors Re-appointment of Directors 2 Stefano Cao Yes 2 2 0 In line with the UK Code, all Directors seek 3 Roxanne Decyk Yes 3 3 1 re-appointment by shareholders at each 1 Matthias Bichsel joined the Board on 14 May 2015.
In addition, the terms and conditions 2 Stefano Cao stepped down from the Board on 29 April 2015. of appointment of all Directors are available 3 Roxanne Decyk stepped down from the Board on 14 May 2015.
4 D irectors may join meetings in an advisory capacity and, on such occasions, are neither included in the quorum for inspection by anyone at our registered of the meeting nor eligible to vote on any matter requiring a formal decision.
office in Jersey and at our corporate services office in London.
They are also made available for inspection during the 30 minutes prior to the start of our AGM each year.
All Executive Directors have rolling service contracts and details of the provisions set out in these are detailed in the Remuneration Policy, which can be accessed at www.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 75 Corporate Governance report continued Effectiveness As part of our commitment to best practice, Director induction Role of the Board and as recommended by the UK Code, Individually tailored induction programmes The UK Companies Act 2006 sets out we endeavour to dispatch papers in a timely are prepared for each new appointment to a number of general duties to which all manner, usually one week prior to each the Board.
It is felt this is the best approach directors should adhere.
Papers are provided electronically as it allows the Company to account for incorporated company, Petrofac is not through a dedicated secure application, differing requirements and to concentrate required to comply with this legislation, giving Directors instant access to papers, on key focus areas to ensure that the nevertheless, our Directors are informed as well as additional reference documentation.
relevant Director is fully prepared for their by UK practice and in any event, act in new role, while taking their background good faith to promote the long-term Director development and training and experience into consideration.
The success of the Company for the benefit The Company is committed to providing induction process is intended to be a broad of our stakeholders.
As a unitary Board, continuing personal development training introduction to the Group, so all new each of our Directors shares equal opportunities.
We do not run an extensive appointees spend time with each of the responsibility for decisions taken, with programme of one-size-fits all training.
Executive Directors as well as senior Directors being collectively responsible Instead, each Director is encouraged to members of operational and functional for the strategic direction of the Company.
pursue an individually tailored development management, both individually and The Board has been structured to ensure programme throughout the year, and to collectively, to be briefed on Group strategy that no single individual can dominate the attend any relevant external seminars run and to gain a deeper understanding decision-making processes and we believe by professional advisers where the content of the Company at an operational level.
all Directors are able to work together in an is considered to be relevant.
A comprehensive induction pack is atmosphere of openness, trust and mutual provided to each new Director, which respect.
It is felt that having an effective During 2015, various offices and site contains a wide range of materials including working relationship between our Executive visits were accommodated, along with a Board and committee dates for the next and Non-executive Directors provides a mixture of formal seminars led by external two years, copies of minutes from the robust governance framework, which is advisers.
In addition, an externally facilitated previous year, the delegation of authority essential for the progression of the training session on forthcoming corporate matrix, copies of Group policies, the Companys strategic aims.
governance changes was provided to Schedule of Matters reserved to the Board, the Audit Committee in November.
This Committee Terms of Reference, Code of Information and support session was attended by Committee Conduct and copies of prior years reports A tailored approach to developing agendas members, as well as all other Directors and accounts.
Site visits and trips to is adopted for each Board meeting, with and members of executive management.
operational centres are actively the majority of each agenda comprising It centred on the impact of regulatory and encouraged.
Each new Director also non-recurring items, such as strategic financial developments on the Group over attends a compulsory presentation led matters or project specific and investment the coming years, with particular focus by our external legal advisers on the role related opportunities.
Processes have been given to the effect of three key items: and responsibilities of being a UK-listed put in place to ensure the Board receives risk management and viability reporting: company director and, depending on which appropriate information at the correct time mandatory audit firm rotation: and non-audit committees they will join, presentations and, whilst some agenda items are brought services restrictions.
from the Group auditors and remuneration to the Board on the basis of a six or consultants are given.
12-month rolling programme, operational Directors were also encouraged, and in and financial reports from the Group Chief some cases required, to complete the Matthias Bichsel joined the Board in May Executive and Chief Financial Officer are Companys eLearning training modules.
2015 and details of his formal induction standing items which are reviewed and These included modules on the Companys programme are set out opposite.
We believe this Code of Conduct, the Share Dealing Code, allows Directors to engage effectively and Anti-Bribery and Corruption and Health encourages scrutiny and constructive and Safety Training.
Training records for debate during each meeting, with Directors Directors are maintained and these are able to seek clarification from management reviewed during the annual evaluation where required.
In addition, all Directors process.
Over the course of this year, have access to independent external advice over 210 hours of training were recorded.
where they require further information in order to discharge their responsibilities.
76 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Name and position Dealing with potential conflicts relating to this project: has not received Matthias Bichsel, Non-executive Director of interest any papers on the contract: and minutes As far as is possible, all Directors circulated to him have been redacted.
Joined the Board endeavour to avoid conflicts of interest with As a result, it is felt that Thomass May 2015 the Company.
However, processes and effectiveness as a Director of Petrofac Strengths procedures are in place in the event that has not been compromised.
any such potential conflicts arise during a Detailed operational and project term of appointment.
On these occasions, Deeds of indemnity management experience in oil and gas industry Directors are required to identify and declare In accordance with our Articles of Extensive international experience any actual or potential conflicts of interest, Association and to the maximum extent Broad understanding of industry from a whether matter-specific or situational, with permitted by Jersey law, all Directors and clients perspective notifications required to be made by the Officers of Petrofac Limited are provided Director concerned prior to, or at, a Board with deeds of indemnity in respect of Focus areas meeting.
All Directors have a duty to update liabilities which may be incurred as a result Increase knowledge of Petrofac the whole Board of any changes in personal of their office.
In addition, Petrofac has Understand UK governance framework circumstances.
The Companys Articles appropriate insurance coverage regarding including board committee activities and of Association permit the Board to legal action which may be brought against obligations Meet with senior management teams authorise conflicts which can be limited its Directors and Officers.
During the year, all conflict Companys indemnities nor insurance Overview of induction programme management procedures were adhered would provide any cover where a Director Met and received detailed presentations to, and managed and reported effectively.
or Officer was found to have acted from Group functional heads May October fraudulently or dishonestly.
Met and received detailed presentations As previously reported, in August 2014 from Business MDs May October Thomas Thune Andersen was appointed Meetings with key advisers, including as Chairman of Dong Energy A S, which is corporate lawyers and brokers May a junior member of the client consortium Meeting with remuneration consultants ahead of joining Remuneration on our Laggan-Tormore project.
Following Committee May continued commercial discussions on this Meeting with audit partners, ahead of project during the year and the increased joining Audit Committee May level of ongoing review of the contract, Site visit to Sohar Refinery in Oman Thomas has continued to absent himself with the Board October from all Board and Committee discussions Board visit to Sohar Every year our Board aims to visit a Petrofac site in conjunction with one of its scheduled meetings.
This provides valuable insight into our projects and gives Directors the opportunity to meet our local teams, enabling the Board to see first-hand some of the issues that our employees deal with every day.
In October 2015, the Board and senior management visited the Sohar refinery in Oman.
During this trip, they met with site management, employees and graduates: took a tour of the site: and received presentations on both Petrofacs presence in Oman as well as project cost control and risk management.
This was an interesting visit for the Board as the project is mid-construction, so the site was extremely busy and enabled those in attendance to see a number of different aspects of project execution and delivery, as well as HSE matters in practice.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 77 Corporate Governance report continued Evaluation of Board effectiveness Improvement areas previously identified: Theme Area for improvement Action undertaken The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness, understanding the benefits Strategy More regular and A specific strategy section now included of annual performance evaluations for rigorous updates within each CEO report.
the Board as a whole, its Committees and on strategy Ahead of each strategy day, each Director for Directors on an individual basis.
It is execution is contacted for feedback after receipt of recognised that the performance evaluation Development of pre-reading documentation to enable better process presents an opportunity to enhance non-financial key time management during the meeting.
overall board effectiveness and our Directors performance believe the process provides a valuable indicators opportunity for continuous improvement, Risk Enhanced Greater oversight of the work of the Group highlighting any recognised strengths or management enterprise risk Risk Committee provided, with more time identifying any weaknesses.
Following identification and spent by the Board reviewing enterprise risks completion of an externally facilitated financial risk and mitigations set out in the Companys evaluation in 2013, the Chairman has led assessments in Key Risk Report KRR.
Delegated authority internal review processes during both 2014 relation to projects matrix updated to ensure Board and and 2015, aiming to be as rigorous and subject to Board management are appropriately reviewing objective as possible.
One-to-one interviews approval and approving projects.
with each Director and the Secretary to the Board have been held each year, Improved oversight helping the Chairman recognise individual of ongoing project performance and contribution, while execution identifying further development opportunities, Succession Increased focus A specific session on succession planning both individually and for the Board as a whole.
planning on succession built into the Board calendar and greater planning for oversight given to talent management.
The outcome of the internal evaluation both the Board processes has been positive and, following and management completion of the review exercise in 2015, the Board is satisfied that it is operating 2015 review: effectively with each Director performing well Theme Area for improvement in respect of their roles on the Board and its Strategy Board strategy day to include a free-ranging discussion on the Committees.
The results of the most recent implications for the industry in the event that oil is subject to a more evaluation process were presented to the prolonged period of lower prices.
In compliance with the UK Code, the evaluation exercise to be External speakers to attend meetings to provide broader industry carried out during 2016 will be externally wide perspectives.
facilitated and details will be provided to Risk Group risk management processes to be developed further to shareholders in next years Annual Report.
management ensure they remain operationally effective thereby enabling the Board to improve its assessment and control of strategic risks.
It is recognised that the Chairmans Succession Greater exposure to the second tier of management to assess effectiveness is also vital to that of the planning that the talent pipeline is being developed appropriately.
Accordingly, led by Thomas Thune Andersen as SID, a review was carried out Continuing to ensure suitable mix and composition on the Board.
in respect of Rijnhard van Tets.
Thomas consulted with each of the other Directors for input and feedback on Rijnhards performance during the year.
The outcome of the review was reported back to the Chairman and it was further confirmed to the Board that Rijnhards Board leadership continued to be effective.
78 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Related pages Our strategic review p20 Group financial statements p108 Accountability Other than the significant control weaknesses Code of Conduct and Risk management and internal identified and the mitigating actions taken Whistleblowing control systems in relation to the Laggan-Tormore project The Audit Committee is responsible for The Board is responsible for monitoring further described on page 86, the Board i reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness and reviewing the effectiveness of Petrofacs s satisfied that sound risk management of the Groups compliance activities, which risk management and internal control and internal control systems have been in include the Companys Code of Conduct systems.
Throughout the year, the Board place across the Group throughout 2015 and whistleblowing policy.
Further details and the Audit Committee received regular and as at the date when the 2015 financial of our Code of Conduct, including our reports from members of management statements were approved.
whistleblowing facility, are provided on with responsibility for the Groups material page 67.
In accordance with the Code enterprise risks, as well as from the internal Petrofac also seeks to ensure that a sound of Conduct, any alleged breaches, both and external auditors to assist in the annual system of internal control, based on the of a financial and non-financial nature, assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups policies and guidelines, is in place are reported to the Audit Committee.
Groups risk management and internal in all material associates and joint ventures.
There were no such incidents involving control systems.
The KRR, which identifies As with all companies, our systems of the override of any major internal controls the principal risks facing the Company internal control and risk management are as set out in the Code of Conduct reported and evaluates the likelihood of their designed to identify, mitigate and manage during 2015. incidence and their impact on the Group rather than eliminate business risk and can if they were to materialise, is maintained only ever provide reasonable, and not Security and this allows the Board to assess absolute, assurance against material During the course of the year, the Audit and monitor the existence and likely misstatement or loss.
Committee also considered and discussed effectiveness of the actions that are global security risks in light of both oil price planned to manage and mitigate such risks A detailed report on the activities of the Audit volatility and increased international security in order to avoid or reduce the impact of Committee is provided on pages 84 to 89. threats.
Particular focus was given to the the underlying risk.
The process of risk changing security landscape in the Groups identification is both top-down and Delivery of our goals key jurisdictions, as detailed on page 55. bottom-up which ensures management As detailed within the Strategic Report, Actions to manage and mitigate security are able to review and challenge impacts Petrofacs strategy and business plan risks were undertaken to assist in providing and mitigations at each level of the set out the Groups priorities which are assurance that the Board is kept informed organisation and address the risks for designed to increase shareholder value of any significant changes within our which they are organisationally responsible.
over the medium to long-term.
business plans, setting financial targets To facilitate the year-end process, the Audit for the Company and incorporating UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Disclosures Committee completed a detailed review of risk analysis as a matter of course, There are no disclosures required to be processes in order that formal assurance on are submitted to the Board annually for made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
the robustness, integrity and effectiveness approval.
The Group formally measures of the Groups internal controls and the performance against these strategic goals Groups risk management systems in and financial targets quarterly, with each Remuneration relation to the Groups principal risks, Business Unit reporting its operational Directors remuneration including those which may threaten the progress monthly.
At each Board meeting, All remuneration matters, including terms Companys strategy, business model, a full update on business operations is of appointment, for the Chairman, future performance, solvency and liquidity, provided, highlighting and discussing any Executive Directors and key members could be given to the Board.
The changes possible impediments to the delivery of of senior management are determined in processes implemented during the year, our Group goals and noting all significant by the Remuneration Committee, whose which are further detailed on pages 86 and health, safety and security matters.
membership is set out on page 90.
87, enabled the Board to take a view on The Board also receives comprehensive Responsibility for setting the remuneration whether or not the Group has sound risk financial reports from our Chief Financial payable to the Non-executive Directors management and internal control systems Officer, thus ensuring the Board is lies with the full Board, albeit independent in place.
kept informed of the Groups financial external advice is taken.
Non-executive performance for the year to date, as Director fees are reviewed each year and compared with the years budget or the further details are provided on page 99. latest revised forecast, with full explanations A detailed report on the activities of the for any variances.
We continue to develop Remuneration Committee is provided on a broader set of financial and non-financial pages 90 to 106. key performance indicators, which we believe should assist us in monitoring the delivery of our goals.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 79 Corporate Governance report continued Relations with shareholders A programme of meetings with both Meetings held with shareholders by country Shareholder engagement existing and potential shareholders is 3 The Board acknowledges its responsibility scheduled each year by our Investor 16 to promote the success of Petrofac for its Relations team.
This programme includes 34 many stakeholders, however, the principal meetings as well as question and answer focus remains with our shareholders.
sessions with stakeholders following the The opportunity to engage openly with publication of our full and half year results, shareholders is welcomed as it is believed along with presentations to institutional 209 that effective dialogue to understand investors and research analysts.
In addition, shareholders views is very important.
management arranges calls and meetings UK Shareholder sentiment has continued to with these groups usually following the US and Canada be an area of Board discussion during release of trading updates to the market.
Europe the year, especially given changes to our Other earnings expectations and the resulting 2015 shareholder meeting Meetings held by teleconference with US investors impact on our share price.
calendar included in UK numbers.
Number of shareholder The Chairman takes overall responsibility Month meetings held Shareholder splits by holding for ensuring the views of shareholders are January 2 communicated to the Board and, in 2015, February 13 met with nine of our largest institutional including Full Year Results investors, who together hold approximately Live webcast of analyst 36% 30% of Petrofacs shares.
During these investor presentation meetings a number of issues were discussed, replay available on our website including the operating environment and 64% market pressures impacting the Company: March 44 governance matters in general and April 29 succession planning in particular: and May 27 Retail strategic and operational performance, June 22 Institutional including concerns about recent execution including trading update issues.
Our Non-executive Directors also July 5 engage with our shareholders as and when Shareholder splits by territory August 12 required and this year the Chairman and including Half Year Results the Audit Committee Chairman both met Live webcast of analyst 14% with Standard Life to discuss a variety of investor presentation matters, including control processes and replay available on our 12% changes implemented as a result of website 49% recently reported issues.
September 44 October 32 25% The Group Chief Executive and Chief November 19 Financial Officer maintain a regular dialogue December 13 with our institutional shareholders through UK including trading update a programme of one-to-one and other US and Canada meetings throughout the year, which focus Rest of Europe on operational matters.
Over 50% of meetings held were attended Rest of world by the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Our Investor Relations team acts as a focal and or the Chief Financial Officer.
point for contact with investors throughout the year and brokers research notes are regularly circulated to Directors.
A formal brokers report is circulated to the Board in advance of each meeting.
This year a representative from one of our corporate brokers, Goldman Sachs, also attended one of our Board meetings to provide a thorough update on market sentiment, including areas of potential shareholder concern in relation to the Company.
80 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Shareholder communications Annual General Meeting AGM Considerable emphasis is placed on Full details of this years AGM, which will communications with shareholders, be held in London, are set out in the Notice whether they are institutional shareholders of Meeting which accompanies this report or private shareholders.
Accordingly, and which is also available on our website.
financial reports and shareholder documents, regulatory market announcements, together As a matter of good practice, all resolutions with recorded interviews, are available on will be conducted on a poll and the results our website, which we hope encourages will be announced to the market as soon as shareholders to become more informed possible after the meeting.
In addition, our full-year are invited to attend the Companys AGM and half-year results presentations by at which they have the opportunity to put Ayman Asfari, Tim Weller and other questions to the Board and meet with all executives to our institutional investors Directors.
Shareholders who are unable and analysts are broadcast live and to attend the AGM are invited to email accordingly may be followed by all questions in advance at agmquestions@ shareholders via our website.
On 24 February 2016, when we issue I look forward to seeing as many of you as our full year results in London each of our possible this year when my colleagues and Executive Directors, as well as members of I will be available to answer your questions.
senior management, will be in attendance to answer questions on our business performance and strategic outlook.
Rijnhard van Tets Chairman Our major shareholders 23 February 2016 In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, as at 31 December 2015 the Company had received notification of the following material interests in voting rights over the Companys issued ordinary share capital including qualifying financial instruments : Percentage of Number of issued share ordinary shares capital Ayman Asfari 62,958,426 18.20% and family Maroun Semaan 27,123,822 7.84% and family Standard Life 21,885,097 6.33% Investments Ltd Deutsche 20,776,437 6.01% Bank AG At the date of this report, all notifications remained as set out above, with the exception of Deutsche Bank AG, whose holding is 19,954,955 shares, which equates to 5.77% of the issued share capital.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 81
