Nominations Committee report Dear shareholder 2015 was, once again, a busy year for the Committee.
Board and senior management succession planning has been a key focus, along with the composition of the Board and its committees.
The Committee has also taken an active role in reviewing employee Rijnhard van Tets talent, both in our core businesses as well as within the functions, Chairman of the Nominations Committee thus ensuring the Company continues to invest in its employees to build a talent pipeline for the Companys long-term success.
Role of the Committee 2015 changes As a result of the Board changes which took effect in 2014, Regularly reviews the composition and structure of the Board and reflecting our process of ensuring that the Board membership and its Committees.
is appropriately refreshed, we initiated a search for a new NonIdentifies and recommends for Board approval suitable executive Director at the end of 2014.
Working with Korn Ferry, candidates to be appointed to the Board.
an executive search firm with whom we have no other relationship, to identify potential candidates with international and relevant industry Considers succession planning processes for the Group as experience, we were delighted to welcome Matthias Bichsel to the well as specific succession plans for Directors and other senior Board as a Non-executive Director in May 2015.
Matthias has over executives taking into account diversity, experience, 35 years relevant experience, ending his executive career at Royal knowledge and skills.
Dutch Shell plc as director of projects & technology.
He has brought an extensive understanding of project management within the oil and gas industry but from the clients perspective, which is Terms of reference especially valuable, given that many of our clients are currently The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year.
In addition, of course, he also Copies are available on our website.
brings a valuable insight into the oil and gas industry in general.
Membership and attendance at meetings As we noted in last years report, Roxanne Decyk stepped down held in 2015 from the Board at our 2015 AGM in May.
This was as a result of Meetings attended her US commitments significantly increasing to the extent that she Members eligible to attend was concerned that she could not give sufficient time to discharge Rijnhard van Tets 6 6 her Petrofac responsibilities.
Unexpectedly in April 2015, Stefano Thomas Thune Andersen 6 6 Cao also stepped down from the Board ahead of his appointment Ayman Asfari 6 6 as chief executive officer of Saipem SpA.
Roxanne and Stefano 1 each contributed significantly to the Board during their respective Matthias Bichsel 3 3 2 tenures and we wish them both well for the future.
Stefano Cao 2 2 3 Roxanne Decyk 3 3 We have previously expressed the view that Non-executive Kathleen Hogenson 6 6 Directors should serve no longer than two three-year terms.
Ren Mdori 6 6 Nevertheless, the Committee made the decision that, in light 1 Matthias Bichsel joined the Committee on 14 May 2015 of the number of recent Board changes, not all of which were 2 Stefano Cao stepped down from the Committee on 29 April 2015 anticipated, it would recommend to the Board that Thomas 3 Roxanne Decyk stepped down from the Committee on 14 May 2015 continue on the Board as Senior Independent Director in order to provide continuity on the Board and within our Committees.
I am delighted that Thomas has agreed, subject to shareholder approval, to extend his stay on the Board.
Committee structures As a result of Stefanos departure from the Board in April 2015, the Committee reviewed the remit and membership of the Board Risk Committee, of which he had been chairman.
After significant debate, it was agreed that the Board Risk Committee would be incorporated into the Audit Committee with immediate effect, and that oversight of the Groups enterprise risks would be exercised predominantly by the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee were amended accordingly to enable it to take ownership of all aspects of internal control and risk management.
82 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Related pages Directors information p70 Following the Board changes effected during 2015, the Committee Diversity took the opportunity to review the composition of each Board Details of our current gender diversity statistics are set out on Committee and a number of changes were recommended.
Whilst we achieved our published target of women Details of current memberships are disclosed within the individual on the Board at the start of 2015, our progress was unfortunately reports of each Committee.
hampered when Roxanne Decyk stepped down from the Board in May.
The appointment of Andrea Abt with effect from May 2016 2015 focus will, however, help to mitigate the gender imbalance which still Board succession planning continued to be a key focus for the exists, and although consideration will be given to the appointment Committee and, once again, more than 50% of its time was spent of another female Director during 2016, the Committee is keen to discussing various matters in relation to succession during the ensure that any future appointments are filled by the best available year.
A breakdown of how the Committee spent its time during candidates for the role, irrespective of gender.
The Committee is very aware of its responsibilities in relation to Board and senior management Petrofac believes that diversity is wider than simply gender and, succession plans to ensure that unforeseen changes are managed irrespective of background or gender, we recruit on merit and aim effectively and efficiently, without disruption to the Groups strategy to hire the best candidates with the widest range of skills and or day-to-day operations.
With over 80 nationalities employed within Petrofac, we consider that our business benefits greatly from a varied The Committee also gave focus to the Groups functional employee base which is essential for ensuring the Companys capability, following changes implemented during the year by long-term success.
The Committee recognises nevertheless that, management to ensure the organisation was being managed across the Group, a gender imbalance remains.
The Committee was keen to ensure the organisation engineering continuing to be a predominantly male-dominated had the most appropriate individuals in the right roles to implement profession, we are proud that approximately 18% of our graduate effective internal controls.
Consideration was also given to the recruits during 2015 were female, demonstrating our ongoing internal Group reorganisation which was implemented at the commitment to build diversity from the bottom up.
Whilst we may end of the year and, as a result, the Committee is keen to meet not yet have many women in senior engineering roles, we are with newly appointed managers during the course of 2016. committed to building and developing our female talent pipeline, but recognise that this takes time.
2016 plans A formal procedure for selecting and recruiting Board members Talent management is in place and extensive consideration is given to identifying the Our current framework for performance and talent management capabilities required of potential candidates, taking into account allows us to identify clearly critical roles and gaps which, in turn, the balance of existing skills, knowledge, experience and diversity informs the succession planning process.
Where any weaknesses on the Board.
Following the departure of both Stefano and Roxanne or development opportunities are identified on an individual from the Board, we initiated further searches for two new Nonbasis, action plans and bespoke training opportunities have been executive Directors during 2015.
Working once again with Korn developed to ensure that high-calibre employees have the required Ferry, a number of potential candidates with international and skills and knowledge to become our future leaders.
The Committee relevant industry experience were identified and we are delighted took an active role during 2015, reviewing with the HR function, to be in a position to recommend to shareholders two new the Groups top 850 executives.
Using a matrix structure to Non-executive Director appointments at our forthcoming AGM: categorise these individuals has enabled individual development Andrea Abt and George Pierson.
Andrea spent her executive programmes to be progressed and has given greater insight into career with Siemens AG where she held a number of varied the Companys succession planning process.
She brings an extensive understanding of key performance indicators to enable management to assess of supply chain management and has deep knowledge of the progress in relation to the delivery of succession plans continues.
broader industrial sector, as well as being familiar with the UK The Committees oversight of talent management is an ongoing governance regime.
George is the former CEO of Parsons activity and, in January 2016, a more detailed review, focusing on Brinckerhoff, the American multinational design and engineering emerging talent was undertaken: with further work planned to take firm.
His engineering and managerial experience will be valuable, place during the course of the year.
as will his understanding of the contractual arrangements by which our business is governed, given the current commercial environment in which we are working.
The Board committee Rijnhard van Tets compositions will be reviewed by the Committee following these Chairman of the Nominations Committee new appointments.
23 February 2016 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 83
