Pets at Home Group Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Report This section of the Annual Report includes Further information on the Groups principal activities is set out in the front of this report and in the CEOs report on pages additional information required to be disclosed 14 to 17.
The CEOs report also provides a detailed review of under the Companies Act 2006 Companies the Groups current activities and potential future developments Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 together with factors likely to affect future development, performance and conditions on pages 22 to 31. the Code or the UK Corporate Governance Code, The Disclosure and Transparency Rules Treasury and risk management DTRs and the Listing Rules LRs of the The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk management Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
is explained in the Key Risks and Uncertainties section on page 44.
There is also a table of the principal risks and uncertainties Certain information required to be included in the Directors Report likely to affect the Group.
is included in other sections of this Annual Report as highlighted throughout this report and also including: The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 61 Officers review on pages 36 to 39.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 76 to 81 The Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 82 to 84 Research and development The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Report The Strategic Report sets out on pages 15, 23 and 31 the on pages 84 and 85 innovation carried out by the Group in relation to product The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 103 development.
Compliance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement In addition, the Group also funds a number of research projects including the independence provisions on page 73 and this year we have co-funded a Doctor of Philosophy PhD at Exeter University which is looking at how to reduce the Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R stress suffered by fish when they are transported.
The PhD is Additional information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R, being co-funded with an executive agency called CEFAS Centre where applicable to the Group, can be found in the following for Environment Fisheries and Aquaculture Science which is sections of the Annual Report: sponsored by DEFRA Department for Environment, Food & Rural Details of long term incentive schemes pages 95 to 98 Affairs and advises DEFRA, as well as other public and private and 148 to 151 sector customers, on issues connected to the aquatic environment.
Significant contracts page 73 Dividend waivers page 129 Greenhouse gas emissions The Board has identified and assessed the significant environment, Relationship Agreement page 73 social and governance risks to the Companys short and long-term value, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that may arise.
Incorporation, listing and structure The corporate social responsibility CSR report on pages 50 to 61 The Company was incorporated and registered in England and reports on the environmental matters, including the impact of the Wales on 10 February 2014 under the Companies Act as a public Groups businesses on the environment, the Groups annual limited company with registration number 8885072 and with the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide, name Pets at Home Group Plc.
the Groups colleagues, and on social and community issues.
The liability of the members of the Company is limited.
The Health and safety Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered An overview of health and safety is provided in the CSR report office is at Epsom Avenue, Stanley Green Trading Estate, on page 54 and also in the Corporate Governance Report Handforth, Cheshire SK9 3RN.
The telephone number of the on page 79.
Colleague engagement and equal opportunities The entire issued share capital of the Company was admitted to Details of the Groups activities relating to colleague engagement the premium listing segment of the Official List maintained by the are set out in the section headed Engagement on page 16 and FCA, in its capacity as the United Kingdom Listing Authority, and to also in the CSR report on under the heading Our Pets People trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed on pages 52 to 54. securities on 17 March 2014 Listing.
Details of the Executive Share Schemes are set out in the Directors Principal activities and future developments Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 99 and details of colleague The principal activity of the Group is that of a specialist retailer share ownership and plans are contained in the statement from of pet food, pet related products and pet accessories.
The Group the Remuneration Committee Chairman on page 87. is also the operator of a small animal veterinary business and pet grooming salons and the omni-channel equestrian retailer, Ride-away.
The Group has also opened a new format, dog focused high street store called Barkers which offers premium products and services targeted at highly engaged dog owners.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 71 The Groups policy for colleagues and all applicants for Pursuant to the terms of Relationship Agreement, the Company has employment is to match the capabilities and talents of each agreed with the Principal Shareholder, KKR My Best Friend Limited, individual to the appropriate job.
We are committed to ensuring an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P. that it may equality of opportunity in all colleague relations.
We aim to appoint and remove two Non-Executive Directors to the Board for ensure that no colleague, potential colleague, customer, visitor or so long as the Principal Shareholder and or any of its associates, contractor will receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of: when taken together holds 20% or more of the voting rights over the Companys ordinary shares and one Non-Executive Director Sex Race to the Board for so long as it and or any of its associates, when Pregnancy and maternity Ethnic origin taken together holds 10% or more but less than 20% over the Disability Nationality voting rights in respect of the Companys ordinary shares.
Religious beliefs Age At each Annual General Meeting of the Company AGM each Marital status Sexual orientation or following Director then in office shall retire from office with effect from gender reassignment the conclusion of the meeting.
When a Director retires at an AGM Colour in accordance with the articles of association of the Company Applications for employment by disabled persons are given Articles, the Company may, by ordinary resolution at the full and fair consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed meeting, fill the office being vacated by re-electing the retiring in accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
In the absence of such a resolution, the retiring Director does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the shall nevertheless be deemed to have been re-elected, except training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure that in the cases identified by the Articles.
training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all colleagues.
All Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis in line with the recommendations of the Code.
The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment where current employees become disabled.
Attempts are made in Powers of the Directors every circumstance to provide employment, whether this involves Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given adapting the current job role and remaining in the same job, or by the Company by special resolution and any relevant statues moving to a more appropriate job role.
and regulations, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors The names of the persons who, at any time during the financial Specific powers relating to the allotment and issuance of ordinary year, were Directors of the Company are: shares and the ability of the Company to purchase its own securities are also included within the Articles and such authorities are Name Date of appointment Date of resignation submitted for approval by the shareholders at the AGM each year.
Tony DeNunzio 18 February 2014 N A The authorities conferred on the Directors at the 2014 AGM, held Nick Wood 11 February 2014 N A on 9 September 2014, will expire on the date of the 2015 AGM.
Ian Kellett 11 February 2014 N A Since the date of the 2014 AGM, the Directors have not exercised Dennis Millard 18 February 2014 N A any of their powers to issue, or purchase, ordinary shares in the Brian Carroll 18 February 2014 N A share capital of the Company.
Tessa Green 18 February 2014 N A Paul Coby 18 February 2014 N A Directors interests Amy Stirling 18 February 2014 N A The Directors interests in shares and options over ordinary shares Paul Moody 25 March 2014 N A in the Company as at 26 March 2015 are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 90.
The current Companys Directors, together with their biographical Since the end of the financial year and the date of this report, details and other information required to be included in the there have been no changes to such interests.
Directors Report, are shown in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 66 and 67.
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, each Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or Appointment and removal of a Director she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, The Company may, by ordinary resolution of the shareholders of or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company the Company at a general meeting, remove any Director from office a situational conflict.
These were considered and approved and elect another person in place of a Director so removed from by the Board in accordance with the Articles and the provisions office following recommendation by the Nomination & Corporate of the Companies Act and each Director was informed of the Governance Committee in accordance with its terms of reference authorisation and any terms on which it was given.
The Board has for approval by the Board.
formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board reviews and, where appropriate, approves certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and is reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis.
Pets at Home Group Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Report continued Directors indemnities Shareholders voting rights Each Director of the Company has the benefit of a qualifying All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and indemnity, as defined by section 236 of the Companies Act, vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every and as permitted by the Articles, as well as prospectus liability member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every insurance which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every in the performance of their duties or powers in connection with ordinary share held.
No shareholder holds ordinary shares carrying the issue of the Companys prospectus dated 28 February 2014 special rights relating to the control of the Company.
in relation to the Listing.
In addition, all directors and officers of Group companies are covered by Directors & Officers liability Restrictions on transfer of ordinary shares insurance.
The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the usual restrictions No amount was paid under any of these indemnities or insurances applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share.
All issued during the year other than the applicable insurance premiums.
share capital of the Company at the date of this Annual Report is fully paid.
Certain restrictions are also imposed by laws and Share capital regulations such as insider trading and market abuse provisions The issued share capital of the Company as at 26 March relating to prohibited periods.
The LRs and the Companys share 2015 and 3 June 2015, being the latest practicable date prior dealing code provide that whereby Directors PDMRS and certain to the date of this Annual Report comprises 500,000,000 Group employees together with their connected persons require ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
Further information regarding prior Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
the Companys issued share capital can be found in note 20 on page 136 of the financial statements.
For a period of one year following the date of the Companys Listing, each of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the There have been no movements in the Companys issued share Senior Executives excluding the Group Company Secretary each, capital in the 2015 reporting period.
a Restricted Shareholder agreed, on the terms and subject to the conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, not to dispose of any of the ordinary shares they hold in the Company the Initial During the year the Company completed a reduction of capital Lock-Up Period.
Although the Initial Lock-Up Period has now whereby 1,080,477,000 standing to the credit of the Companys expired, each Restricted Shareholder also entered into a lock-up share premium account was cancelled, creating distributable deed dated 12 March 2014 with the Company.
On the terms reserves of an equivalent amount.
The cancellation was formally of each lock-up deed, each Restricted Shareholder undertook, approved by the High Court and the court order was registered for an additional period of 365 days commencing on the by the Registrar of Companies and became effective on 30 July termination of the Initial Lock-Up Period, not to dispose of 2014.
The cancellation had no effect on the overall net asset more than a specified number of ordinary shares in the Company position of the Company and or the Group.
in each case, approximately 50% of the relevant Restricted Shareholders holding of ordinary shares.
The additional lock-up periods each expire on 16 March 2016.
All of the above arrangements are subject to certain customary exceptions.
Major interests in shares As at 26 March 2015 and 3 June 2015, being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Annual Report, the Company has been notified, pursuant to DTR5, of the following interests, representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of Ordinary Name of Number of Ordinary % of Issued Shares as at % of Issued Nature of Holding Shareholder Shares as at 26.03.15 Share Capital 03.06.15 Share Capital Direct Indirect KKR My Best 186,616,538 37.3% 186,616,538 37.3% Direct Friend Limited MBF 44,396,548 8.9% 44,396,548 8.9% Direct Co-Invest L. P. Schroders 29,224,785 5.8% 29,224,785 5.8% Direct Investment Management GIC Private Ltd 25,112,894 5.0% 25,112,894 5.0% Direct an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P. Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 73 Transactions with related parties Profits and dividend The only subsisting material transactions which the Company The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was has entered into with related parties are: 67,876,000 FY14: 38,565,000.
The results are discussed in greater detail in the CFOs review on pages 36 to 39.
Relationship Agreement: The Relationship Agreement A final dividend of 3.6 pence per share FY14: Nil will be was entered into on 28 February 2014 and regulates recommended to the Companys shareholders in respect of the relationship between KKR My Best Friend Limited the 2015 financial year.
The final dividend will be proposed by the Principal Shareholder, its associates and the Company the Directors at the AGM on 9 September 2015 in respect following Listing.
Subject to a certain minimum shareholding, of the year ended 26 March 2015 to add to an interim dividend the Relationship Agreement details the rights the Principal of 1.8 pence per share paid on 16 January 2015 FY14: Nil.
Shareholder has to representation on the Board and Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee: to appoint The Directors proposed final dividend of 3.6 pence per share observers to the Remuneration, Audit & Risk, the Pets Before takes the total dividend payable in respect of the 2015 financial Profit Committee and the CSR Committee and certain antiyear to 5.4 pence per share.
The ex-dividend date will be dilution rights.
The Company has also undertaken to cooperate 13 August 2015 and, subject to shareholder approval at the with the Principal Shareholder in the event of a sale of the 2015 AGM, the final dividend of 3.6 pence per share will be ordinary shares by the Principal Shareholder at any time.
paid to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 August 2015.
The Relationship Agreement complies with the requirements of the LRs, including LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a, which came into effect Change of control on 16 May 2014, and LR 6.1.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or colleagues providing for additional compensation for loss of In accordance with the requirements of LR 9.8.
4 14, the Board office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy confirms that the Company has complied with its obligations or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
under the Relationship Agreement, including in respect of the independence provisions set out therein, at all times since it The only significant agreements to which the Company is a party was entered into, including throughout the period under review, that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of and, so far as the Company is aware, the Principal Shareholder the Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, and its associates have complied with the provisions are as follows: of the Relationship Agreement including the independence provisions set out therein, at all times since it was entered The Relationship Agreement with the Principal Shareholder into, including throughout the period under review.
contains a provision allowing the Principal Shareholder to terminate the agreement with immediate effect if any person Senior Facilities Agreement: KKR Capital Markets Limited acquires control of the Company namely holding and or KCM, an affiliate of the Principal Shareholder, was entitled ownership of the beneficial interest in and or the ability to to receive a syndication agent fee equal to 0.50% of the total exercise the voting rights applicable to ordinary shares or other commitments under the terms of a senior facilities agreement securities in the Company which confer, in aggregate on the dated 18 February 2014 Senior Facilities Agreement holders, whether directly or indirectly, more than 50%.
of the entered into in connection with the Listing.
Further details voting rights exercisable at general meetings of the Company of the Groups banking facilities are shown in note 17 on or the Company ceases to be listed.
page 134 of the financial statements.
Certain payments under The SFA and the Amendment Agreement contain customary the Senior Facilities Agreement were made during FY15.
prepayment, cancellation and default provisions including, if required by a lender, mandatory prepayment of all utilisations Amendment to the Senior Facilities Agreement: On 14 April provided by that lender upon the sale of all or substantially all 2015, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered of the business and assets of the Group or a change of control.
into an amendment agreement the Amendment Agreement to the Senior Facilities Agreement.
Further detail on the Political donations Amendment Agreement is provided below under the heading The Companys policy is not to make any political donations and Events post year end on page 74. no political donations or expenditure were made or incurred during the year.
Amendment of the Articles The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the Suppliers Companys shareholders in a general meeting, in accordance with The Group understands the importance of maintaining good the Companies Act.
relationships with suppliers and it is Group policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and for payment to be made in accordance with these terms, provided the supplier has complied with its obligations.
Average trade creditors of the Groups UK operations for FY15 were 42 days FY14: 38 days.
Pets at Home Group Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Report continued Events post year end Auditor On 14 April 2015, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit entered into the Amendment Agreement referred to above under information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware.
Each Transactions with Related Parties on page 73.
The Amendment Director has taken all the steps which they ought to have taken Agreement became effective on 15 April 2015 the Effective as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Date, after the date of the Companys financial year end on information being information that is needed by the Companys 26 March 2015.
Auditor in connection with preparing its report and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The Amendment Agreement provided that a new revolving facility of 260 million the Revolving Facility 2 was incorporated into This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Companies Act.
The existing term and revolving facilities were repaid on the Effective Date with the proceeds At the AGM on 9 September 2014, KPMG LLP was appointed of a drawing under Revolving Facility 2 and cash on balance as the Companys Auditor.
During the 2015 financial year, sheet and upon the prepayment such facilities were cancelled.
a competitive tender process of audit services was completed Revolving Facility 2 is available for drawing to finance and or in accordance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit refinance as applicable the general corporate purposes and or Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory working capital requirements of the Group.
The interest rate Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee applicable to Revolving Facility 2 is LIBOR or, for loans in Euro, Responsibilities Order 2014, made by the Competition & Markets EURIBOR plus a margin ranging between 2.00% and 0.75% Authority.
Following its success in the tender process, a resolution per annum depending on the ratio of consolidated EBITDA is to be proposed at the 2015 AGM for the reappointment of to total net debt.
The margin currently applicable to utilisations KPMG LLP as the Auditor of the Group.
under Revolving Facility 2 is 1.50% per annum.
KKR Capital Markets Limited KCM, an affiliate of the Principal Shareholder, Approval of Annual Report received a fee of 500,000 for arranging Revolving Facility 2.
The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were approved by the Board On 15 April 2015, NWS Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Pets on 3 June 2015. at Home Group Plc, acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Northwest Surgeons Limited, in exchange for an initial cash Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by consideration of 2.6m.
Northwest Surgeons Limited is a company registered in England and Wales, engaged in the provision of specialist veterinary services to veterinary practices in the north west of England.
The acquisition represents the first specialist veterinary referral practice within the Group.
Going concern Louise Stonier On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, Group Company Secretary the Directors are satisfied that the Group is well placed to manage 3 June 2015 its business risks successfully and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Branches outside the UK The Company has no branches outside the UK.
