Pets at Home Group Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit & Risk Committee Report The Directors recognise the need to maintain the financial reporting procedures, review them on an ongoing basis and adapt them to changing circumstances.
Amy Stirling Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Who is on the Audit & Risk Committee?
In addition to our regular agenda, we considered in detail, policies in place on tax and treasury, the quality and sourcing function Member No.
of meetings in the UK and Hong Kong, accounting for supplier rebates, the loss prevention strategy and conducted a tender process for the Amy Stirling Chairman 4 4 external audit.
Dennis Millard 4 4 Paul Coby 4 4 Financial reporting Paul Moody 4 4 As part of our work to ensure the integrity of financial reporting, we focused on the following during the year: The Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive, the Head of Internal Audit and an observer appointed by the Principal Reviewed the appropriateness of the Annual Report for the Shareholder attend meetings by invitation along with year ended 26 March 2015, and also the interim financial representatives from KPMG.
The Company Secretary acts statements for the 28 week period ended 9 October 2014 as secretary to the Audit & Risk Committee Committee.
with a focus on, amongst other matters, the quality and The Committee meets separately with the Head of Internal acceptability of accounting policies and procedures, material Audit and the Groups external auditors from time to time areas where significant judgements have been applied or there without management present to review their reports and has been a significant discussion with the Groups external discuss issues in detail.
auditors, KPMG, and the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards.
Introduction Reviewed and discussed with management the accounting I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committees report treatment and level of judgement required in relation to for the year.
During the year, the Committee met three times with promotional income from suppliers.
We are satisfied that this our focus being on financial reporting, internal and external audit income is only recognised when there is reasonable certainty and internal controls.
that the conditions for recognition have been met by the Group and the value of the income can be reliably measured.
Our primary function is to assist the Board in fulfilling its Considered and approved the Groups tax policy that outlines responsibilities to protect the interest of the Shareholders the Groups attitude to tax and risk, our relationship with with regard to the integrity of the financial reporting, audit, risk HMRC, relationships with external tax advisors, a summary management and internal controls.
To achieve this, the Committee: of processes for assessing and providing for tax exposure.
We also received and reviewed a report that provided an Agrees the scope of internal audit work for the year and update on each of corporate tax, VAT and employment taxes.
monitors the same: Considered the Groups treasury policy that covers those Monitors, makes judgements and recommendations on the transactions involving interaction with banks, other financial financial reporting process and the integrity and clarity of the institutions and the wider capital markets and recommended financial statements: to the Board for approval.
Considers the appointment of the external auditor and their remuneration including reviewing and monitoring of Discussed the impact of the replacement of UK GAAP and independence and objectivity and agreeing and monitoring noted the impact on the subsidiary accounts for the Group.
the extent of the non-audit work that may be undertaken: Reviews and monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control and risk management policies and systems currently in place: and Reports to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 83 Internal audit Since year-end, based on reviews from internal and external audit, Internal audit is a key function within the business focused and discussions with management, we reported to the Board that on ensuring the effectiveness of governance, risk management the Committee considers the Annual Report taken as a whole to and internal controls.
During the year, we recruited a new Head be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information of Internal Audit & Risk to lead this function and have reviewed necessary for shareholders to assess our strategy, business the resources, reporting and processes managed within this model and performance.
Internal audit have also led the development of the risk management process and worked with the Executive Team and Going concern the Board to ensure that there is appropriate alignment and We have reviewed the going concern basis on which the Annual understanding of the key risks and risk appetite.
The Head of Internal Audit & Risk has attended each Committee The Group has considerable financial resourcing and financing meeting, updating on progress against the audit plan throughout facilities.
Since the year-end, on 14 April 2015, the Company the year, key action points to address control weaknesses and certain of its subsidiaries entered into the amendment identified and the process of risk management across the Group.
agreement to its senior finance facility Amendment Agreement.
I have met regularly with the Head of Internal Audit & Risk during The Amendment Agreement became effective on 15 April 2015 the year and he has had separate meetings with KPMG and with the Effective Date.
the Committee without management present.
The Amendment Agreement provided that a new revolving facility of Specific work performed during the year included reviews of 260 million was incorporated into the senior facilities agreement the financial processes for treasury, cash and banking, payroll, replacing the 325m of drawn facilities.
accounts payable and overrider supplier rebate payments.
Within business systems, a technical post-implementation review Following a consideration of the Amendment Agreement and of SAP has been carried out along with audits covering IT project the detailed business plans prepared by the Group together management, IT governance and information security.
The quality with sensitivity analyses which stress test key assumptions, and sourcing function in the UK and Hong Kong was also audited the Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate for the Group during the year.
to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group.
Recommendations from Internal Audit are prioritised based on risk.
The audit reports issued for FY15 included a number of Risk management and internal control priority findings for management attention and actions have been The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the developed to address these.
For example, following the quality and system of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The sourcing review, improved documentation and sampling controls Committee oversees the risk management process and provides have been introduced and a new workflow management tool is oversight of internal controls on the Boards behalf as detailed on being implemented.
The reports and related findings and actions pages 40 and 41 and also on page 80 of the Governance Report.
have been discussed by the Committee and priority actions will be tracked to completion.
During the year, the risk management process has been developed to provide further insight into specific risks including improvements External audit to the scoring mechanism and the use of heat maps to illustrate Key audit risks gross and net risk and progress made in addressing each risk.
The In order to discharge its responsibility to consider accounting Board and the Executive Team have also independently assessed integrity, the Committee carefully considers key judgements their respective risk appetites for the key risk areas of the business applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements then compared and discussed the outcome of this assessment.
that are set out on pages 104 to 154.
At the start of the year, KPMG presented their audit plan to the Committee, identifying Following this process review, the Groups significant risks and what they considered to be the key audit risks for the year ahead associated mitigating actions have been considered in detail by and the planned scope of work to be performed through the year.
the Executive Board and an ensuing report has been presented These risks were considered to be the carrying value of goodwill to the Board.
and the carrying value of inventory.
In addition, with regard to internal controls, the Committee has Carrying value of goodwill reviewed and considered the reports of the Head of Internal Audit We have reviewed the work performed by management in testing on audits completed and follow-up action plans to address areas for goodwill impairment.
We have considered the cashflow models, of control weakness.
Further details of specific areas covered are discount rates and a number of sensitivities and we are satisfied set out on pages 42 to 45. with the carrying value of goodwill in the consolidated financial KPMG also reported on the Groups internal control environment statements on page 130. as part of their external audit work programme and the Committee noted that no significant weaknesses on internal controls were identified.
