Our leadership team Paolo Bigi Craig Muir Rob Jewkes Mary Hitchon Regional Managing Director, Group Managing Director, Chief Operating Officer, Group Director of Legal, Engineering & Construction Engineering & Production Integrated Energy Services Secretarial and Services Compliance Services Responsibility Responsibility Joined Petrofac in 2015 as Executive Responsibility Joined Petrofac in January 2004 to Responsibility Vice President for Business build a Europe-based engineering Joined Petrofac in 2012 as MD of Joining Petrofac in October 2005 Management.
In January 2016 he services business in Woking, UK, Engineering & Consulting Services, shortly after the IPO, Mary had was appointed Regional MD for the which now forms part of Petrofacs where his responsibilities included responsibility for the Groups onshore portfolio of the Engineering the effective management and Engineering & Production Services governance and listing rule compliance & Construction business.
In 2009, he was appointed execution of Petrofacs engineering framework.
Over the last 10 years responsibilities include all Petrofacs MD of Developments within the service centres in Woking, India, she has built a company secretarial onshore operations in the United IES division, with responsibility for Malaysia, Indonesia, Houston, department and developed processes Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Algeria and Nigeria, as well as leveraging our engineering and and procedures commensurate Algeria and Asia.
project management capability our subsidiary businesses, KW with a listed entity.
She was through Risk Service Contracts Subsea, TNEI and Plant Asset appointed as Group Director of Previous experience and Equity Upstream Investments.
In January 2016 Legal, Secretarial and Compliance Paolo has a career extending over Craig was appointed Group In January 2014, Rob assumed Services in January 2015 and now almost 30 years.
He spent 23 years the role of Chief Operating Officer, Managing Director for Engineering has responsibility for all key aspects with Tecnimont where he was EVP IES, with full responsibility for the & Production Services, which of legal, regulatory and governance and Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
includes responsibility for all compliance across the Group.
More recently Paolo worked with Petrofacs reimbursable services, Borealis as EVP and also spent five Previous experience Previous experience both onshore and offshore.
years with Techint Engineering & Rob has over 35 years Mary is a Fellow of the Institute of This incorporates operations Construction European sector experience in the oil and gas Chartered Secretaries with more and maintenance: engineering, as its CEO.
Prior to joining Petrofac, than 20 years experience in a UK procurement and construction he served as chief executive listed environment.
Previously she management: engineering: training Sunder Kalyanam officer of Clough Engineering, worked at TBI plc, the AXA group and all consultancy services.
Regional Managing Director, the main operating company of and Savills plc.
the Australian engineering group Engineering & Construction Previous experience Clough Limited.
He holds a degree Before joining Petrofac, Craig Christopher McDonald Responsibility in Civil Engineering from the held the position of executive vice Group Head of Business Sunder has worked at Petrofac president within growth regions University of Western Australia.
Development for 23 years and has held a range covering the Middle East, North of positions within the Company.
ES Sathyanarayanan Responsibility Africa and CIS for AMEC, based In January 2016 he was promoted Joined Petrofacs business in Abu Dhabi.
Prior to AMEC, he Managing Director, from Executive Vice President development function in early 2011 held numerous roles working in Technical Services to the position of Regional MD, and progressed to Executive Vice the oilfield service sector including Engineering & Construction.
In January 2016 he was those with KBR, Brown & Root responsibilities cover all Petrofacs Since joining Petrofac in 1995, appointed Group Head of Business and AOC International.
He has onshore operations in Kuwait, Sathys career has covered many Development with responsibility worked in the North Sea, in the Iraq and Oman.
operational roles including systems for delivery of all new sales.
Middle East, and in Asia Pacific.
engineer, engineering management, Previous experience Previous experience project management, and project Walter Thain Sunders 30 years of experience With more than 25 years of director.
His role has also included Managing Director, have been gathered in an EPC and international experience in the oil that of project sponsor and head Engineering & Production engineering consultancy environment and gas sector, Chris has previously of country operations for Iraq.
Services West covering multiple aspects of worked with companies including As Managing Director for Technical engineering design and project Halliburton KBR and also served Services, he is responsible for Responsibility management, of oil and gas, on the board of M W Kellogg Ltd. all engineering resources for Walter has 18 years of service refinery and petrochemical projects.
Petrofacs projects, including with Petrofac.
He has held key roles Cathy McNulty Petrofacs three Indian offices in the UK and the UAE including: Yves Inbona Group Director in Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi.
Vice President Operations: Vice Managing Director, Offshore of Human Resources President, Sales & Marketing, Previous experience Capital Projects Training Services: Senior Vice His early experience was gained Responsibility President, OPO and MD, OPO.
Responsibility Joined Petrofac in February 2014 spending a number of years as a In January 2016, he was appointed Joined Petrofac in June 2012 as as Group HR Director and has specialist mechanical engineer and MD for Engineering & Production MD of our Offshore Capital Projects systems engineer.
Sathy has more overall responsibility for advising on Services West.
He is responsible for than 28 years of experience in the all people aspects of the business.
is accountable for growth and turnkey delivery of offshore platforms, This includes developing the people oil and gas sector.
regional delivery across engineering, floaters and pipelines in shallow strategy to support the Company operations and training services and deep-water worldwide.
He has in achieving its strategic ambitions, within Europe, North Africa and extensive expertise in the offshore focusing on succession planning, the Americas, together with the sector, having more than 30 years talent management, leadership global delivery of Petrofacs of industry experience.
development, compensation and consultancy services including benefits, key hires, performance Previous experience asset management, well engineering culture and employee engagement.
During his time as chief operating and subsea pipeline engineering.
She partners with the business officer of Saipem SpA, Yves leaders to build the strengths and Previous experience managed the offshore business, capabilities needed to meet the Walter is a Chartered Engineer which was the most profitable changing demands of our markets with more than 25 years industry of all Saipems business units.
Prior to joining He speaks seven languages Petrofac he held senior engineering and is a graduate engineer from Previous experience and leadership positions with Ecole Centrale fide Paris.
Has more than 25 years of McDermott Engineering, delivering experience in HR, and has held both brownfield and greenfield a number of senior roles, most engineering projects.
recently with Arup, the international consulting and engineering group, and Hewlett Packard.
72 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015
