Pets at Home Group Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Report normal channels of the Chief Executive Officer has failed to Corporate governance resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Dennis Millard has been appointed Deputy Chairman as well as Senior Independent Introduction Director and has considerable experience of acting as an The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate independent non-executive director on plc boards.
Save as set out in the paragraphs below, the Board has complied with and intends to continue to comply with the Appointment of Directors by the Principal Shareholder requirements of the Code.
Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, the Company has agreed with the Principal Shareholder that it may appoint two In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council published a Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as the Principal revised 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2014 Code, Shareholder and or any of its associates, when taken together which will apply to the Companys next financial year FY16.
holds 20% or more of the voting rights over the Companys Shares Accordingly, the Board will seek to comply with the 2014 Code and one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as it in relation to the Companys next financial year save as set and or any of its associates, when taken together holds 10% out below, and will report on such compliance in the Companys or more but less than 20% over the voting rights in respect of the 2016 Annual Report.
The Principal Shareholder has appointed Brian Carroll as a Non-Executive Director of the Board.
The Chairman, The Company will also report to its shareholders on its compliance Tony DeNunzio, is a senior advisor to affiliates of the Principal with the Code in accordance with the Listing Rules made by the Shareholder and therefore is not deemed to be independent of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the Principal Shareholder.
Although he has not been appointed as a Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended from time Director by the Principal Shareholder, the Principal Shareholder has to time LRs.
agreed that for so long as it has the right to appoint two Directors to the Board and Tony is a Director, the Principal Shareholder will Board balance and independence not exercise its right to appoint a second Director to the Board.
The Code recommends that at least half the board of directors For further details of the Relationship Agreement and confirmation of a UK-listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise of compliance with the provisions set out in the Relationship non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent Agreement, see page 73 of the Directors Report.
in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the Board observers directors judgement.
The Pets at Home Group Plc Board consists Each of the Senior Executives has been appointed as Board of five Independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive observer with rights to receive notice of including all Board Chairman, one non-Independent Non-Executive Director appointed papers, attend and speak at, Board meetings.
The Principal by the Principal Shareholder and two Executive Directors.
The Shareholder also has the right to appoint, and has appointed, Directors biographies are contained on pages 66 and 67.
Both one Board observer for so long as it holds voting rights over more individually and collectively the Directors have the range of skills, than 10% of the Companys shares.
Such Board observers have knowledge, expertise and dedication necessary to lead the Group the right to receive notice of, attend and speak at, Board meetings.
together with the requisite strategic and commercial experience.
No Board observer is entitled to vote on any matter requiring a resolution of the Board.
Chairman The Code recommends that, on appointment, the chairman of Appointment terms and elections of Directors a company with a premium listing on the Official List should meet All Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Tony DeNunzio and the details of their terms are set out in the Remuneration joined Pets at Home in 2010 and has been Non-Executive Policy on pages 100 and 101.
The service agreements and letters Chairman of the Group since March 2010.
Notwithstanding that of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys the Board did not consider at the time of listing and continue registered office during normal business hours.
to believe that Tony DeNunzio does not meet the independence criteria set out in the Code, the Board believes that in order At each AGM of the Company, all Directors will stand for re-election to continue to ensure maximum continuity in the Companys in accordance with the 2014 Code.
transition from a privately owned company to a listed company, Tony should remain as Non-Executive Chairman of the Group.
The Board also believes Tony brings vast retail experience and knowledge to the Pets at Home team.
Senior Independent Director The Code recommends that the board of directors of a company with a premium listing should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors as a Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
The role of Senior Independent Director includes being available to shareholders if they have concerns, which contact through the Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 77 How the Board operates Topics for the Board meetings are determined at the beginning of Pets at Home has established a clear division of responsibilities the year and new items are added to this as and when appropriate.
between the respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer.
This During the year the Board spent its time considering a wide range separation of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief of matters.
These included: Executive Officer, coupled with the reserved matters described below, Strategy: ensures that no individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Performance overall and of individual businesses and functions in the Group: The matters reserved for the Board include: Budgets and long-term plans for the Group: Agreement of the Groups strategy: Financial statements and announcements: Changes to the structure and capital of the Group: Reviewing reports from its committees, notably on audit Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls: strategy, remuneration and CSR objectives: Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Reports, Pensions: and Interim Management Statements together with any Reputational risks: announcements: Shareholder feedback and reports from brokers and analysis: Approving significant expenditure, material transactions Risk management and controls in the Group including and contracts: reputational risks: and Reviewing and agreeing Group tax and treasury policy: Delegated authorities.
Delegation of authority to the Chief Executive Officer: Board and Senior Management appointments, arrangements All Directors receive papers in advance of Board meetings.
and succession planning: These include a monthly Board report with updates from each of the Executive Team and the Operating Board, which monitors Communication with shareholders: and the achievements of the Groups key performance indicators, Review of the Groups overall corporate governance matters.
The Groups Operating Board are also invited to present at Board meetings so that Non-Executive It is important to the Board that Non-Executive Directors have Directors keep abreast of developments in the Group.
the ability to influence and challenge appropriately.
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-Executive Directors, including meeting with the Executive Team and other members of without the Executive Directors present and this practice will the Groups Operating Board and advisors.
The induction includes continue in the future.
The Senior Independent Director also visits to the Groups stores, veterinary surgeries and other attended these sessions.
It is important to the Group that all Directors understand external views In this financial year, the Board met formally nine times, plus the of the Group.
Throughout the year, regular reporting was provided to the annual strategy meeting.
Ad hoc meetings were arranged to deal Board by the Companys Head of Investor Relations, covering broker with matters between scheduled Board meetings as appropriate.
reports and the output of meetings with significant shareholders.
Board meetings were preceded by Committee meetings with the meetings lasting the majority of the day in most cases.
As stated below, the Board has also delegated certain matters to a number of Board Committees.
Number of meetings attended Attendance for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is given in the table below.
Nomination & Corporate Corporate Social Pets Before Remuneration Audit & Risk Governance Responsibility Profit Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of meetings 9 3 4 1 2 2 2 Director Tony DeNunzio 9 1 2 2 Chairman Dennis Millard 9 3 4 1 2 2 Deputy Chairman Nick Wood 9 3 Ian Kellett 9 Amy Stirling 9 3 4 1 Tessa Green 9 3 1 2 2 Paul Coby 8 4 1 1 1 Paul Moody 8 3 4 1 Brian Carroll 8 1 1 Excludes the strategy day which all Directors attended.
2 Only attendance of formal members of the meetings is included.
Attendance as an observer is not included.
Pets at Home Group Plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Report continued Considering diversity Only Committee members have the right to attend and vote at its meetings but the Principal Shareholder has a right to appoint The Board understands the importance of having a diverse an observer to attend meetings of the Audit & Risk Committee membership and recognises that diversity encompasses not for so long as it and or any of its associates, when taken only gender but also background and experience.
Whilst the together holds 10% or more of the voting rights in respect Board believes that appointments should be made solely on of the Companys Shares.
merit, we seek to ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate balance through a diverse mix of experience, backgrounds, The Audit & Risk Committee chair will be available at the 2015 skills, knowledge and insight, to further strengthen the diversity AGM to respond to questions from shareholders on the activities of gender and experience already on the Board.
Notably, two of the Audit & Risk Committee.
of the five Independent Non-Executive Directors, Tessa Green and Amy Stirling are female together with the Group Company The Audit & Risk Committee has taken appropriate steps to ensure Secretary, Louise Stonier and a Senior Executive, Sally Hopson.
that the Companys Auditors are independent of the Company These appointments were made on merit, and not on the basis and obtained written confirmation from the Companys Auditors of gender, the appointees being by far the strongest candidates that they comply with guidelines on independence issued by the for the positions with their skill sets and overall experience relevant accountancy and auditing bodies.
fitting the objective role description approved by the Board at the outset of the recruitment process.
The Audit & Risk Committee has access to sufficient resources to carry out its duties, including the services of the Group Legal This policy applies equally to all appointments in the Company Director and Company Secretary and the Groups internal audit and so two of the most recent appointments to the Board of the function.
Independent external legal and professional advice Pets at Home Vets Group are female, Sally Hopson and Amanda can also be taken by the Audit & Risk Committee if it believes Radford.
The Group also has four female colleagues on the it necessary to do so.
Remuneration Committee Board Committees The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining The Board has established three Board Committees: an Audit its responsibilities in relation to Directors remuneration.
Further & Risk Committee, a Nomination & Corporate Governance details are contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on Committee, and a Remuneration Committee.
In addition, the Board pages 86 to 103. has also established the Pets Before Profit Committee and the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee which comprise The Code provides that a remuneration committee should comprise both Non-Executive Directors and colleagues and the Investment at least three members who are Independent Non-Executive Directors Committee which comprises Executive Directors and colleagues other than the chairman.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired including a Senior Executive.
If the need should arise, the Board by Dennis Millard, and its other members are Tessa Green, Amy may set up additional committees as appropriate.
Stirling and Paul Moody, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee meets not less than twice Each Committee has written terms of reference which are approved a year.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmans fees are by the Board and subject to review each year.
These are available determined by the full Board.
on request from the Group Company Secretary and are published on the Groups website http: investors.
Only Committee members have the right to attend and vote at its meetings, but the Principal Shareholder has a right to appoint an Audit & Risk Committee observer to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee for so The Audit & Risk Committee gives due consideration to laws long as it and or any of its associates, when taken together holds and regulations, the provisions of the Code and the requirements 10% or more of the voting rights in respect of the Companys Shares.
Further details are contained in the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 82 to 84.
The Code recommends The Remuneration Committee has access to sufficient resources that an audit committee should comprise at least three members to carry out its duties, including the services of the Group Legal who are Independent Non-Executive Directors and that at least Director and Company Secretary and the Groups Customer, one member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
Independent external legal The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired by Amy Stirling, and and professional advice can also be taken by the Remuneration its other members are Dennis Millard, Paul Coby and Paul Committee if it believes it necessary to do so.
Moody, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
As a former chief financial officer of Talk Talk Telecom Group Plc, the Directors consider that Amy Stirling has recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
The Audit & Risk Committee meets not less than three times a year.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 79 Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee The Investment Committee meets formally at least ten times a year and otherwise as may be required.
Duties of the Investment The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee assists Committee include reviewing and considering all proposals the Board in considering the structure, size and composition of presented for new store and stand-alone surgery acquisitions by the Board whilst advising on succession planning.
Further details a Group company, approving all material variations to proposed are contained in the Nomination & Corporate Governance new stores and stand-alone surgery acquisitions, periodically Committee report on pages 84 and 85. reviewing proposed changes to the reporting and presentation of new store investment criteria: reviewing all proposals presented The Code recommends that a majority of the members of a for lease renewals and reviewing alternative strategies for new nomination committee should be Independent Non-Executive store investment, formats and geographical markets and reporting Directors.
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee on such strategies to the Board for final approval on the terms of is chaired by Tony DeNunzio, and its other members are Dennis any such matter and reviewing all proposals for the dispositions Millard, Paul Coby, Tessa Green, Amy Stirling each of whom of all or part of any of the lease on stores including any sub-letting, is an Independent Non-Executive Director, and Brian Carroll.
assignments, surrenders or relocations and approving or rejecting The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee meets any such proposals as appropriate.
Each of the matters approved not less than once a year.
by the Investment Committee is subject to the further approval of the Board where it falls within the level of expenditure requiring The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has full Board approval.
The Investment Committee formally updates access to sufficient resources to carry out its duties, including the the Board at least once a year in addition to regular updates on services of the Group Legal Director and Group Company Secretary.
matters approved within the monthly Board packs.
Independent external legal and professional advice can also be taken by the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Senior Executive and Operating Board if it believes it necessary to do so.
In addition to the Board, the Group has both the Executive Management Team Executive Team as detailed in the Corporate Other Pets at Home Committees Governance Report on pages 68 and 69 and the Operating Board Pets Before Profit Committee and CSR Committee the Operating Board for which respective roles are clearly defined.
The Pets Before Profit and the CSR Committee advise the Board The Operating Board meets frequently to discuss the following: on the Groups corporate responsibility objectives and strategy.
Further details are contained in the CSR Committee Report on Current trading: pages 50 to 61.
New developments: Operational issues: The Pets Before Profit Committee and the CSR Committee are Marketing: chaired by Tessa Green, and its other members are Tony DeNunzio, Dennis Millard and Paul Coby.
A number of the Groups People: and colleagues including Senior Executives are also regularly invited Execution of strategic programmes.
to attend meetings of the Pets Before Profit and CSR Committees.
Health and safety The Pets Before Profit Committee and the CSR Committee meet Health and safety is a key priority for the Board and senior formally at least twice a year and otherwise as may be required.
management and is an item for review and discussion at each Board meeting.
The Board has established a health and safety Only Committee members have the right to attend and vote at its committee which meets at least on a quarterly basis and going meetings but the Principal Shareholder has a right to appoint an forward, will be chaired by the Group Legal Director with the observer to attend meetings of the Pets Before Profits and CSR agenda led by the Head of Health and Safety.
The committee Committees for so long as it and or any of its associates, when is attended by key individuals in the business that are responsible taken together holds 10% or more of the voting rights in respect for certain areas of health and safety, including the veterinary of the Companys Shares.
business and Ride-away, and the committee is tasked with reviewing the Groups overall health and safety performance.
Management committees A health and safety policy is in place for the Group which is Details of our management committees are set out below: reviewed on a regular basis.
Investment Committee The distribution centres have their own dedicated health and The Investment Committee assists the Board with the Groups safety manager and a separate health and safety sub-committee store and veterinary surgery rollout process to ensure the Groups which also meets on a regular basis.
The newly integrated investment process is managed effectively and rigorously veterinary business also has a designated health and safety throughout the Group.
The Investment Committee is chaired by manager and two health and safety assessors.
Nick Wood and its other members are Ian Kellett, Sally Hopson and the Director of Property.
A number of the Groups colleagues Further details of the work of the Health And Safety Committee are entitled to attend meetings of the Investment Committee.
are contained on page 54 of our CSR Report.
Pets at Home Group Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Report continued Share dealing code Internal control and risk management The Company has adopted a share dealing code in relation to The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control its shares which is based on, and is at least as rigorous as, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board delegates to the the Model Code as published in the LRs.
The share dealing code Executive Team the responsibility for designing, operating and applies to the Companys Directors, its other PDMRs and certain monitoring these systems.
The systems are based on a process employees of Group companies and they are responsible for of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and include the procuring the compliance of their respective connected persons risk management processes set out on pages 40 and 41 and with the Companys share dealing code.
page 83 of the Audit & Risk Committee Report.
Board evaluation and effectiveness The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period Process and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The systems In accordance with the provisions of the Code, during the year, of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the Board engaged Lintstock Limited to undertake an independent the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only evaluation of Board and Board committee performance and to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material identify areas where performance and procedures might be further errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
Lintstock Limited is a specialist corporate governance of internal controls operate across the business: the key controls consultancy and has no commercial dealings or other connection the business relied upon during the year are set out below: with the Group.
The annual Group wide strategic review of the business took place in October and November 2014 culminating in The first stage of the evaluation involved Lintstock engaging with the preparation of a detailed three year strategic plan which the Chairman and the Company Secretary to discuss and agree was reviewed and approved by the Board.
Following this the scope of the proposed evaluation and to develop a series approval, the business carried out its annual budget cycle, of comprehensive questionnaires tailored to the specific again culminating in formal review and approval by the Board.
Management accounts have been reviewed at Board meetings All respondents were then requested to complete online by the Board.
These reviews covered the comparison of actual questionnaires addressing the composition and performance performance against budget in the period end management of the Board and its Committees, and the performance of accounts and consideration of outturn for the year.
This included the completion of a confidential end accounts are prepared by the management accounts questionnaire to gain an understanding of our Boards team and reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the performance and consider its effectiveness.
of all respondents was ensured throughout the process in order All capital investments during the year have been approved to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
by the Chief Financial Officer: an authority framework is in place which details the approvals required for specific levels Lintstock subsequently produced a report which addressed the of capital spend including those capital projects requiring following areas: full Board approval.
In line with delegation by the Board, the Investment Committee, chaired by the CEO, has reviewed and Board composition and expertise including areas where the approved investments in respect of the acquisition and fit-out Non-Executive Directors require further understanding of the of new stores and new standalone veterinary practices, see business of the Group: page 79 for further details.
the involvement of the Non-Executive Directors in the affairs of the Company outside of Board and Committee meetings, There is an Internal Audit department in place that has the dynamics between the Board members and between the its scope agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee and has Board and the Executive Management Team: reported at each Audit & Risk Committee throughout the year.
All Internal Audit reports are presented to the Audit & Risk the Boards time management, together with the Boards Committee for review and consideration of any material annual cycle of work and the information provided to the Board: findings.
the Boards oversight of strategy and operations, and the A clearly articulated delegated authority framework in respect Board members views over the principal strategic challenges of all purchasing activity is in place across the Group.
This and opportunities facing the Company: is complemented by systemic controls that reflect the agreed authority framework and clear segregation of duties between risk management and internal controls including the risk relevant functions and departments.
An Internal Audit review appetite of the Board and the Boards management of the of the accounts payable process during the year covered the principal risks and uncertainties to the Group: operation of delegated authority and segregation of duties the succession planning for Executive Directors and the with regard to purchases and found no significant issues.
Executive Management Team and the Boards visibility A schedule of matters reserved for the Board is in place of potential successors for key positions from within for approving significant transactions and strategic and the business: organisational change.
the composition and performance of the Board and its Board discussion of the key risks and uncertainties facing Committees and the performance of the Chairman: and the Group and the risk management system.
top priorities for change as identified by the Board.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 81 At a dedicated Board session, a report of the findings of the Relations with shareholders evaluation and its recommendations were discussed and specific The Board believes it is important to explain business actions agreed.
developments and financial results to the Companys shareholders and to understand any shareholder concerns.
We intend to Outputs of the evaluation communicate with shareholders on a regular basis.
The Board recognises the benefits of a thorough Board and Committee evaluation process.
Overall, the evaluation During the year, the Company met regularly with analysts and demonstrated that the composition and performance of the Board institutional investors and such meetings will continue.
The Chief and its Committees and the performance of the Chairman were Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have lead responsibility rated highly as very effective.
They are supported by a dedicated Head of Investor Relations who, amongst other matters, organises As a result of the review, amongst other things, the Board agreed: presentations for analysts and institutional investors and ensures that procedures are in place to keep the Board regularly informed to ensure clarity on the strategic agenda to enable the Board of such investors views.
to focus on the appropriate strategic topics: The formal reporting of our full and half yearly results will be a to continue to develop the Non-Executives understanding combination of presentations, group calls and one-to-one meetings of the business by incorporating into the Board schedule in a variety of locations where we have institutional Shareholders.
periodic store visits and time with the Executive Team whilst All the Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman also ensuring that the Board is exposed to the Operating and Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major Board and Rising Stars as part of an annual cycle of shareholders, if they wish to raise issues separately from the presentations and dinners: arrangements as described above.
to develop an efficient and effective management information pack as a foundation for improved debate: Pets at Homes investor website is also regularly updated with news and information, including this Annual Report and Accounts that further Board time should be devoted to discussions which sets out our strategy and performance together with our concerning talent management and Executive and plans for future growth http: investors.
Non-Executive succession planning: and that there was a need to further enhance the Boards Annual General Meeting understanding of the Groups risk appetite with further time The Companys AGM will be held on Wednesday, 9 September being spent debating the most significant risks to the business.
2015 at the Hilton, 303 Deansgate, Manchester M3 4LQ.
Full details of the meeting are set out in the Notice of Annual General In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is anticipated that Meeting sent with this Annual Report and Accounts.
The AGM externally facilitated Board evaluations will be carried out every provides all shareholders with the opportunity to attend and vote three years.
In years when an external evaluation is not carried out, on the resolutions put to shareholders and those shareholders the Board will continue to complete internal performance-based unable to attend are encouraged to vote using the proxy card questionnaires, with the process managed by the Company enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts or electronically Secretary.
The scope for each subsequent evaluation will be by following the instructions set out in the Notice of Meeting designed to build upon learning gained in the previous year to whether personally or by proxy.
Information relating to votes ensure that the recommendations agreed in the evaluations are cast will, following the AGM, be available on the Companys implemented and that year-on-year progress is measured and website http: investors.
