Directors information 1 Rijnhard van Tets Ayman Asfari Marwan Chedid Tim Weller Non-executive Group Chief Group Chief Chief Financial Chairman Executive Operating Officer Officer Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed May 2007 January 2002 January 2012 October 2011 May 2011 as Senior January 2016 as Group COO Board Committees Board Committees Independent Director Member of the Nominations Board Committees None August 2014 as Chairman Committee None Key strengths Board Committees Key strengths Key strengths Wide-ranging financial Chairman of the Nominations Distinguished record with strong Thorough knowledge of the oil management experience, including Committee operational leadership skills and and gas sector and contracting strategic and financial planning, Key strengths international focus.
Solid commercial, cost control and capital efficiencies.
Extensive financial background, business development skills, a operational and engineering Experience of major systems with solid international board and wealth of oil industry knowledge experience.
stakeholder communications Excellent experience of governance Entrepreneurial track record.
Experience Joined Petrofac in 1992 when Experience Experience Joined the Group in 1991 to the business was first established Joined Petrofac in September General partner of Laaken Asset establish Petrofac International, in Sharjah.
Previously worked 2011 from Cable & Wireless Management NV.
Advised the of which he was CEO.
In 2005, for CCC, a major construction Worldwide, where he had been managing board of ABN AMRO led the successful initial public contractor based in the Gulf chief financial officer until July between 2002 and 2007, having listing of the Company, valuing the and the Middle East.
A Fellow of the Institute of previously served as a managing business at 0.8 billion.
Has more as COO of the Engineering & Chartered Accountants in England board member for 12 years.
than 35 years experience in the oil Construction International business and Wales with a degree in and gas industry.
Formerly worked as in 2007 and became MD of Engineering Science, he started External appointments MD of a major civil and mechanical Engineering & Construction his career with KPMG.
Held chief Non-executive chairman of construction business in Oman.
Appointed as financial officer roles with United Euronext Amsterdam NV, Euronext chief executive of ECOM in 2012 Utilities Group PLC, RWE Thames NV and BNP Paribas OBAM NV.
External appointments and most recently appointed as Water Limited and Innogy Holdings Founder and chairman of the Group Chief Operating Officer PLC now RWE npower Holdings Asfari Foundation.
Member of the with effect from 1 January 2016.
He also served as a board of trustees of the American non-executive director of BBC University of Beirut.
Business External appointments Worldwide until March 2013.
Ambassador for the UK Prime Member of the board of trustees Minister.
Member of the board of of the University of Balamand.
External appointments trustees for the Carnegie Endowment Non-executive director of the for International Peace.
Fellow of Carbon Trust and G4S plc.
the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Member of the Chatham House Senior Panel of Advisors.
1 M r Asfari is a British citizen: however he is Syrian born and has dual nationality.
As at the date of this report: Board tenure Executive and Non-executive Director balance 5 years or more Non-executive Chairman 1 1 3-5 years Executive Directors 1 3 1-2 years Non-executive Directors Less than 1 year 4 3 3 70 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Thomas Thune Matthias Bichsel Kathleen Hogenson Ren Mdori Andersen Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Senior Independent Director Director Director Director Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed May 2010 May 2015 August 2013 January 2012 August 2014 as Senior Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Independent Director Member of the Audit, Nominations Member of the Audit, Nominations Chairman of the Audit Committee Board Committees and Remuneration Committees and Remuneration Committees and member of the Nominations Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Key strengths Key strengths Committee and member of the Over 35 years experience in Over 30 years experience in Key strengths Audit and Nominations Committees the oil and gas industry.
Extensive the oil and gas industry, with Extensive and current international Key strengths commercial and strategic particular expertise in reservoir financial experience, with knowledge Wide-ranging international knowledge.
Deep understanding management and subsurface of balance sheet strengthening experience with broad knowledge of operational and project engineering.
Entrepreneurial track opportunities and financing of the energy industry and markets.
management, as well as record.
Well-established Proven track record executing technology management.
and strategic knowledge and knowledge of governance and growth strategies and mobilising proven operational leadership regulatory matters and a good Experience and developing organisations, with an excellent understanding understanding of operational Stepped down from the executive with strong HSE experience.
committee of Royal Dutch Shell plc Extensive knowledge at board at the end of 2014.
Held a number Experience Experience and senior management level of roles over his 34 year career President and CEO of Zone Finance director of Anglo American from both an executive and with Shell, including director of Energy LLC, a company she plc since September 2005.
Petroleum Development Oman: founded in 2009 which focuses June 2000 to May 2005 was group Experience MD of deepwater services in on the acquisition, development finance director of The BOC Group Spent 32 years at the A. P. MllerHouston: executive vice president and sale of oil and gas properties.
Until June 2012, was a nonMrsk Group, ending as CEO and global exploration and executive From 2001 to 2007 was CEO executive director of SSE plc.
president of Mrsks oil and gas vice president technical, of Shell of Santos USA Corporation, External appointments company.
Served on Mrsks main Upstream.
Ran Shells Project and responsible for Santos Americas Executive director of Anglo American board and its executive committee Technology business from 2009. and Europe.
Has held a number plc and non-executive director of for four years.
Was a non-executive of senior roles at Santos Ltd, External appointments fide Beers and Anglo Platinum Limited.
director of SSE plc until July 2014.
Unocal Corporation and Maxus Vice-chairman of Sulzer AG.
Has a board portfolio across Energy Corporation.
Non-executive director of Canadian companies in the energy and Utilities Limited and South Pole External appointments critical infrastructure sectors.
Member of the advisory President and CEO of Zone Oil External appointments board of Chrysalix Energy & Gas LLC.
Director of Parallel Chairman of the Lloyds Register Venture Capital and of Highgate Petroleum LLC and trustee of the Group and board of trustees for Capital Management.
Chairman of DeepOcean Group and of Dong Energy A S. Vice Chairman of VKR Holding.
As at the date of this report: Gender diversity Board skill set 2015 Women as a percentage of the total Board 14% Oil and gas experience 75% Group 13% Engineering 63% Senior management 6% Finance 38% Graduates 20% International experience 100% Excluding the Chairman Regulatory and governance 50% HSE 63% Operational strategic management 100% Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 71
