Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report reviewing promptly all reports on the Composition Responsibilities Company from the internal auditors and The Audit Committee comprises three The Audit Committees primary function reviewing and assess the annual internal independent Non-executive Directors is to assist the Board in fulfilling its audit plan: and is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who financial oversight responsibilities.
The monitoring the external auditors is a qualified Chartered Accountant and Board is required by the Code to establish independence and objectivity, including member of the Institute of Taxation.
formal and transparent arrangements for the effectiveness of the audit services: Therefore Andrew has recent relevant considering how it should apply required monitoring and approving the scope financial experience, in compliance with the financial reporting standards and internal and costs of audit: and Code provision C3.1, and was appointed to control principles and also for maintaining ensuring audit independence and chair the Committee on his appointment to appropriate relationships with the pre-approving any significant non-audit the Board in June 2012.
The other members Companys external auditors, BDO.
services to be provided by the auditor.
of the Audit Committee are Paul Hewitt and The Committees terms of reference John Jackson, both Non-executive Directors.
can be viewed on the Companys website Audit Committees activities Alan Jackson, Non-executive Chairman, www.
resigned from the Committee in February In 2015, the Audit Committee met formally 2016.
The Committee is authorised to obtain In particular, the Code calls for the four times.
independent advice if considered necessary.
description of the work of the Audit Committee to include the significant Matters that were considered by the The Chief Financial Officer attended all issues considered in relation to the Committee during the year included: meetings of the Audit Committee by financial statements and how they were invitation, and the Head of Finance was addressed, how the Committee assessed valuation of available-for-sale invited to attend the meetings of the the effectiveness of the external audit investments held by the Group: Committee that considered the audited process, the approach of the Committee to management of the Groups cash accounts and the interim financial appointing the auditors and how objectivity balances in particular the effectiveness statements, as was the external auditor, and independence are safeguarded relative of the Groups treasury management and BDO LLP BDO.
The members of the to non-audit services.
hedging practices and stability of the Committee were also able to meet the Groups banking relationships: The primary responsibilities delegated to, auditors without any Executive Directors adoption of an updated risk register being present in order to receive feedback and discharged by, the Committee included: for the Group: from them on matters such as the quality effectiveness of the Groups system of of interaction with management.
The monitoring and challenging the internal controls and risk management: Chairman of the Committee also met with effectiveness of internal control and entry into related party transactions and BDO separately on several occasions to associated functions: structured agreements: discuss matters involving the audit process.
approving and amending Group updates on people risk, and accounting policies: cybersecurity risks: During the year, the Chairman of the reviewing and ensuring the integrity of results of internal audit reviews, Audit Committee met, individually and in interim and annual financial statements, management action plans to resolve private, with members of the management in particular the actions and judgements any issues arising and the tracking team in order to understand more fully of management in relation thereto of their resolution: and the context and challenges of Playtechs before submission to the Board: review of committee Terms business operations and thereby ensure the monitoring the implementation of Reference.
Committees time was used most effectively.
of the Companys Code of Business He also visited various operations of the Ethics Code of Ethics and compliance Its work also included reviewing the final business.
The activities of the Committee with their provisions: and interim financial statements and matters members during the last year have enabled reviewing the Companys arrangements raised by management and BDO.
After it to gain a good understanding of the for its employees to raise concerns, discussions with both management and the culture of the organisation, the risks and anonymously or in confidence and external auditor, to include the consideration challenges faced and the adequacy and without fear of retaliation, about of acquisition accounting relating to Markets timeliness of the action being taken to possible wrongdoing in financial Limited, the Committee determined that address them.
reporting or other matters arising the key risks of misstatement of the Groups under the Code of Ethics: financial statements, related to the following areas which are described in the relevant accounting policies and detailed in the Notes to the financial statements on pages 94 to 123.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 55 Governance Audit Committee report continued calculation were reviewed.
The Committee operates continue to evolve, based on the Revenue Recognition The Audit Committee reviewed the received a report on the outcome of aforementioned external and internal advice the impairment review performed by received, the Audit Committee considered judgements made in respect of revenue recognition, in particular to assess the management.
The impairment review developments and pending changes in was also an area of focus for the external domestic and international tax laws and recognition of revenue from turnkey and other contracts where the Group is to be auditor, who reported their findings to the was satisfied that adequate tax provisions and disclosures were being made for any remunerated other than by way of a simple Committee.
The Committee satisfied itself revenue share arrangement, and undertook that no material impairments were required potential liabilities.
Following to the carrying value of goodwill or other this review, to include consideration of intangible assets.
Related party transactions The Audit Committee examined the the acquisition of Markets Limited, the Committee concluded that the timing Legal, regulatory and taxation practices and procedures adopted by the Group to ensure that related party of revenue recognition continues to be Given the developing nature of the in line with IFRS requirements.
BDO gambling sector in many countries across transactions are conducted on arms length terms.
The Committee considered performed detailed audit procedures on the world, there is a risk that potential revenue recognition and reported their material legal or regulatory matters are not the processes followed in relation to such transactions that were entered into during findings to the Committee, which was disclosed or provided for in the financial satisfied as a result of the review process statements and therefore the Committee 2015 and concluded that the process had worked effectively and that all related party that the approach taken by the Group considered with the Groups compliance in the financial statements was appropriate.
and legal departments whether there were transactions had been properly conducted on an arms length basis and appropriately any known instances of material breaches Business combinations in regulatory and licence compliance that disclosed in the financial statements.
BDO undertook a review of this area as part The Audit Committee reviewed the needed to be disclosed or other claims judgements made in connection with that required provisions to be made in of its audit work.
the accounting treatment for business the financial statements.
In particular, combinations during the year.
In particular the Committee considered forthcoming Financial statements the acquisition of Markets Limited formerly changes in the regulatory environment The Groups financial statements are TradeFX, to determine whether the assets in a number of jurisdictions in which the reviewed by the Audit Committee in and liabilities recognised in the financial Groups licensees operate, in particular in advance of their consideration by the statements are carried at an appropriate the United Kingdom where a new licensing Board.
The Committee confirms that it fair value.
The Committee reviewed the regime was introduced during 2014 that is satisfied that the auditor has fulfilled purchase price allocation prepared by required the Group to obtain regulatory its responsibilities with diligence and professional advisers, together with the licences.
The Committee considered the professionalism.
underlying judgements and forecasts used control systems adopted to identify potential to determine the fair value of intangible regulatory issues and the compliance control Having undertaken the processes described assets and contingent consideration, and systems operating in the Group.
Discussions above, the Committee is satisfied that the satisfied itself that the approach to the were held with both the Head of Regulatory financial statements appropriately address accounting treatment taken by the Group and Compliance and the General Counsel.
the critical judgements and key estimates was appropriate and in accordance with Following this review, the Committee both in respect to the amounts reported IFRS requirements and accounting practice.
were satisfied that adequate provisions and the disclosures.
and disclosures were being made for any Goodwill and intangible assets potential contingent liabilities.
On the basis of the above, the Committee During the year, the Audit Committee also consider that the Annual Report and considered the judgements made in relation The Audit Committee reviewed and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, to the valuation methodology adopted by approved the overall tax management understandable and provide the information management to support the carrying value and strategy of the Group during the year necessary for shareholders to assess the of goodwill and other intangible assets in light of external and internal advice Groups performance, business model to determine whether there was a risk of sought by management and reviewed and strategy.
material misstatement in the carrying value how the Group considers tax as part of its of these assets and whether an impairment overall business planning.
The Committee was given to transfer pricing studies carried considered the assumptions, estimates out on behalf of the Group in the period, and judgements made by management and assessed, in respect of earlier studies, to support the models that underpin the whether there had been any change in the valuation of intangible assets in the balance basis of operations in the relevant territories.
Business plans and cash-flow forecasts Furthermore, given that the tax rules and prepared by management supporting the practices governing the e-commerce future performance expectations used in the environment in which the Group 56 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board confirms that any necessary The Audit Committee will continue to assess Internal control action will be taken to remedy any the effectiveness and independence of the In 2013, the Company established an significant failings or weaknesses identified external auditors.
In doing so, the Audit out-sourced Internal Audit function from any Internal Audit reviews.
The system Committee will consider a formal tender responsible for reviewing, reporting and of internal controls and audit is designed to process in accordance with the provisions monitoring improvements in internal control ensure local legal and regulatory compliance of the Code.
The Audit Committee will performance across its operations, involving and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk continue to comply with the Competition  LLP PwC.
of failure to achieve business objectives.
It Commission Order relating to the statutory can therefore only provide reasonable and audit market for FTSE 350 companies, which In January 2015, we appointed Robert not absolute assurance against material came into effect from 1 October 2014.
The Penfold, a risk professional with extensive misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee expects a formal tender sector experience, who acts as the Groups process to be held no later than 2018.
Robert reports to Auditors independence the Audit Committee on a regular basis and Andrew Thomas engages with PwC and other specialists The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Chairman of Audit Committee where appropriate.
Board, undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors independence each year, 25 February 2016 During the year, PwC were engaged to which includes: perform a review of a number of areas of the Group including I. T security and disaster a review of non-audit related services recovery arrangements.
In addition to provided by BDO and related fees: these audit services, they provided regular a discussion with the auditor of a written business updates to the Head of Audit report detailing all relationships with the on matters of corporate governance.
The Group and any other parties which could output of these audits was considered by affect independence or the perception the Audit Committee and members of of independence: the Risk & Compliance Committee: and in a review of the auditors own procedures light of the recommendations made by the for ensuring independence of the audit PwC and the Head of Audit, certain actions firm and partners and staff involved in were agreed to mitigate the risks identified the audit, including the periodic rotation and to improve existing processes.
Further of the audit partner: work is being undertaken to focus on key obtaining written confirmation from the risk processes and is intended to provide auditors that they are independent: and ongoing independent assurance that these a review of fees paid to the auditors in key processes remain effective.
respect of audit and non-audit services.
In recognition of the increasing levels During the year the auditors undertook of complexity in relation to internal controls certain specific pieces of non-audit and a desired commitment to having work including work in relation to tax a dedicated in-house function, we recently matters and the evaluation of potential appointed two experienced Internal Auditors acquisition targets.
BDO were selected to report directly to the Head of Internal to undertake these tasks due to their Audit.
The relationship between PwC and familiarity with the gambling industry Playtech has therefore moved to a coand, as regards tax, their alignment with sourced arrangement.
However, PWC will work carried out under the audit.
In order continue to support the Internal Audit Team to maintain BDOs independence and where necessary given their experience of the objectivity, BDO undertook its standard Group and the specialist services they offer.
independence procedures in relation to those engagements.
Further details of the non-audit fees are included in Note 6 to the financial statements on page 89.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 57 Governance Remuneration report annual statement The Committee is satisfied that the Dear Shareholder Performance outcome total remuneration of the Executive for 2015 On behalf of the Board, I welcome Directors is reasonable in the context of the opportunity to present the 2015 was an extremely busy year for performance delivered and is below the Remuneration Committees report on Playtech with outstanding operational total remuneration delivered in comparable Directors remuneration for the year to and financial performance.
Progress businesses in the Gaming sector.
This report, as required has been driven through strong organic by the Code, describes how the Board has growth and successful acquisitions and Implementation of applied the principles of the Code strategic agreements.
remuneration policy for 2016 to Directors remuneration.
This excellent performance resulted in No changes are proposed to the Although Playtech is an Isle of Man achieving impressive results across our Remuneration Policy from that presented incorporated entity and, as such, is not key financial performance measures including and approved at the annual general required to comply with the UK regulations growth in revenue 38%, adjusted EBITDA meeting held in May 2014.
Further details on Directors remuneration, we recognise 22%, adjusted net profit 8% and adjusted of the Companys Remuneration Policy the importance of shareholder transparency.
The 2015 results significantly and structure are provided in this report.
Accordingly, we can confirm that the exceeded both internal forecasts and external The Remuneration Committee believes Company adheres to the UK regulations market expectations against a backdrop of an the current policy reinforces the Companys and the report below is divided into: i this ever evolving regulatory and tax landscape.
strategy to create a business with significant Annual Statement: ii the Remuneration scale and a full product and service Policy Report containing a re-presentation Given the strong financial and operational capability, underpinned by a pre-eminent of the Groups Remuneration Policy, as results, the Remuneration Committee technology platform.
We believe that approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM considered that the Executive Directors had the Remuneration Policy and incentive and which is not being amended at this time: exceeded both the challenging financial framework we have in place can support and iii the Annual Report on Remuneration targets and the other strategic objectives the Companys strategy in the current or ARR that reports on the implementation given to them at the start of 2015, including economic environment and help to retain of the Companys stated Remuneration successful negotiations with new and and motivate our management team Policy for the year to 31 December 2015. existing customers, expanding the business in order to assist in driving strong returns The ARR and this Statement will be the in regulated and soon-to-be regulated for our shareholders.
subject of an advisory shareholder resolution markets, strengthening the Groups at the forthcoming AGM.
regulatory functions in light of increased For this year the Committee has reviewed regulation in the UK and elsewhere and and expanded the recovery and withholding Philosophy the successful integration of Markets Limited provisions for annual bonus and LTIP awards formerly TradeFX Limited.
Accordingly, to ensure that they remain in line with Our Remuneration Policy, which is set out in recognition of this strong performance, modern standards.
in more detail in this report, is designed the Committee has, consistent with our to reward the contributions of senior Remuneration Policy, awarded a bonus The Committee will review the continued management but also to incentivise them of 175% of salary to the CEO and 125% appropriateness of the Remuneration Policy to maintain and enhance Playtechs position of salary to the CFO.
The Committee is during 2016 ahead of the next shareholder as the software and services provider of very comfortable that this level of bonus vote on our policy at the 2017 AGM.
The choice to the gambling sector and to deliver reflects the delivery of superior financial Remuneration Committee encourages in line with Playtechs M&A strategy.
performance together with the strong dialogue with the Companys shareholders personal performance of the Executive and will discuss any changes to our policy Remuneration is delivered via relatively Directors during 2015.
Further details with major institutional investors ahead of modest fixed remuneration and simple and of the bonuses are set out in the ARR.
The Committee and I hope transparent incentive-based plans enabling we can count on your continued support the Executive Directors to be rewarded for As outlined in our annual report for at the 2016 AGM.
delivering strong financial performance and 2014, the Remuneration Committee sustainable returns to shareholders.
In fast considered the position of grants to John Jackson moving sectors such as ours we need to Executive Directors pursuant to the Groups On behalf of the Remuneration Committee apply the policy flexibly in order to deliver Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 and made the right level of overall pay to Directors.
grants to them in December 2015.
Further 25 February 2016 details of the grants are set out in the ARR.
No LTIP awards vested by reference to performance in 2015 as the first awards under the LTIP were only granted in the year.
58 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
