Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors governance report As detailed in Note 26 to the financial January 2016, the Chairman stepped down Introduction as a member of the Audit Committee.
statements, Hilarys husband, Jean-Pierre Responsibility for corporate governance Houareau, was engaged during 2015 by The Committee now consists of three lies with the Board, which is committed to Non-executive Directors.
the Group as a consultant and also owns maintaining high standards of corporate a company which is a small supplier to the governance and is ultimately accountable It is the current policy of the Remuneration Group.
Mr Houareau has worked in the to shareholders.
The report which follows Committee to ensure that any option awards online gaming industry for non-related explains our most important governance to Directors are subject to challenging companies, such as PKR, for 10 years and processes and how they support the Groups performance criteria.
has been retained to assist in connection business.
In particular, we have applied the with some of the Groups consumer facing principles of good governance advocated Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed as a activities in the UK and other regulated by the UK Corporate Governance Code Non-executive Director on 9 October 2013 markets.
Hilary was not involved in the the Code.
The Code applied to Playtech and resigned as a Director on 31 December decision to retain Mr Houareau and did throughout the financial year ended 2015.
Hilary is a leading international not participate in discussions relating 31 December 2015.
A copy of the code expert in gambling law and has over to fee arrangements.
uk Our-Work 20 years experience advising companies Codes-Standards Corporate-governance on gambling-related matters and was, at The Board considered that Hilary was .
the time of her appointment, a partner in independent for the purposes of the Code the firm of DLA Piper LLP the Firm.
Compliance statement stepped down from that role in May 2014 and has since been engaged as a consultant The Companys auditor, BDO LLP, is required We continued to make improvements to the Firm.
The Firm has provided, and to review whether the above statement during the year both to our Board structure continues to provide, regulatory and legal reflects the Companys compliance with the and our governance procedures and I am advice to the Company from time to time, Code by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing delighted to be able to report that it is the however, given the overall size of the Firm Authority and to report if it does not reflect view of the Board that the Company has and the relatively small scale of fees received, such compliance.
No such negative report been fully compliant with the principles this relationship was not considered to has been made.
of the Code during 2015 save in relation impact on her independence.
her tenure, Hilary was considered to be The Board is accountable to the Companys independent by the Board.
In addition, in shareholders for good governance and As regards C. 3.1 of the Code, following order to reinforce her independence, it was the statement set out below describes the Company qualifying for inclusion in agreed that following her appointment and how the Group applies the principles the FTSE 350 the Board concluded that up to and including her date of resignation, identified in the Code.
the composition of the Audit Committee Hilary would not be involved in the provision comprising the three Non-executive of advice by the Firm to the Group, her Directors including the Chairman was remuneration from the Firm would not be sufficiently robust for the Committee to fulfil linked, directly or indirectly, to the receipt of its responsibilities without the need for the fees from the Group, and that any potential appointment of a further Non-executive residual conflicts will be managed carefully.
Nevertheless, the Board reviewed the position during the course of the year and following the appointment of John Jackson as a Non-executive Director in Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 47 Governance Directors governance report continued The Non-executive Directors are all Board operation The Board considered by the Board to be independent The roles of the Chairman Alan Jackson Composition of management and free of any relationship and the Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer As at 31 December 2015, the Board which could materially interfere with the are separated, clearly defined and comprised the Non-executive Chairman, the exercise of their independent judgement, their respective responsibilities are Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial as explained above.
Officer, a Non-executive Deputy Chairman and two independent Non-executive The Company Secretary acts as secretary Chairman Directors.
Save for Hilary Stewart-Jones to the Board and its Committees and his overall effectiveness of the who resigned as Non-executive Deputy appointment and removal is a matter for running of the Board: Chairman on 31 December 2015, the list the Board as a whole.
The Company ensuring the Board as a whole of Directors holding office during the year to Secretary is a member of the Groups plays a full part in the development 31 December 2015 and their responsibilities management team and all the Directors and determination of the Groups are set out on pages 44 and 45. have access to his advice and services.
strategic objectives: keeping the other Directors informed With the exception of Paul Hewitt who of shareholders attitudes towards was appointed as a Non-executive Director the Company: in August 2015, the Directors served safeguarding the good reputation throughout the financial year.
of the Company and representing it both externally and internally: John Jackson was appointed as a acting as the guardian of the Boards Non-executive Director on 1 January 2016. decision-making processes: and promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate Directors name Title governance throughout the Company Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman and particularly at Board level.
Mor Weizer Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer executive leadership of the Companys business on a day-to-day basis: Ron Hoffman Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer developing the overall commercial objectives of the Group and proposing Hilary Stewart-Jones Non-executive Deputy Chairman resigned on 31 December 2015 and developing the strategy of the Group in conjunction with the Board Andrew Thomas Non-executive Senior Independent Director as a whole: responsibility, together with his senior Paul Hewitt Non-executive Director appointed on 27 August 2015 management team, for the execution of the Groups strategy and implementation John Jackson Non-executive Director appointed on 1 January 2016 of Board decisions: recommendations on senior appointments and development of the management team: and ensuring that the affairs of the Group are conducted with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
48 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Matters considered by the Board in 2015 Month Material matters considered January Review of operations Senior Management recruitment Overview of proposed acquisitions February Review of the 2014 financial results and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014 Consideration of a final dividend Budget Approval April Approval of acquisition of TradeFX Limited Consideration of proposal to invest in Lottosport Limited Consideration of forthcoming regulatory changes in key markets May Consideration of the acquisition of Ava Trade Limited Preparation for the AGM Consideration of the acquisition of Plus500 June Approval of placing of new ordinary shares Approval of debt financing Integration of Trade FX Limited Tax & Transfer Pricing review August Review of interim results Consideration of interim dividend Appointment of Paul Hewitt as a Non-Executive Director October Review of progress on acquisitions of Ava Trade Limited and Plus500 Purchase of property in Riga Review of Operations Consideration of potential transactions within the gaming sector November Review of Financial division Termination of proposed acquisition of Ava Trade Limited Termination of proposed acquisition of Plus500 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 49 Governance Directors governance report continued In addition to receiving reports from the How the Board functions Responsibility and delegation Boards Committees, reviewing the financial In accordance with the Code, the Board The Chairman is primarily responsible and operational performance of the Group is collectively responsible for the longfor the efficient functioning of the Board.
and receiving regular reports on M&A, legal, term success of the Company.
The Board He ensures that all Directors receive regulatory and investor relations matters at provides entrepreneurial leadership for the sufficient relevant information on financial, the Board meetings, the other key matters Company within a framework of prudent business and corporate issues prior to considered by the Board during 2015 are set and effective controls that enable risk to be meetings.
The Chief Executive Officers out in the table page 49. assessed and managed.
The Board sets the responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the Companys strategic aims, and ensures that Groups business and implementing Group Board meetings are generally held at the the necessary resources are in place for the strategy.
Regular interaction between registered office of the Company on the Isle Company to meet its objectives and reviews the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Man, though during the year a meeting management performance.
between meetings ensures the Board was held in Cyprus.
remains fully informed of developments The Board meets regularly and frequently, in the business at all times.
Directors are provided with comprehensive with eleven meetings scheduled and held in background information for each meeting 2015.
During the year, it was also necessary There remains in place a formal schedule and all Directors were available to participate for the Board to hold two unscheduled of matters specifically reserved for Board fully and on an informed basis in Board Board meetings by telephone in accordance consideration and approval, which includes decisions.
In addition, certain members with the articles of association, in connection the matters set out below: of the senior management team including with the proposed acquisitions of Ava the Chief Operating Officer, the General Trade Limited and Plus500.
In addition, approval of the Groups long-term Counsel, the Head of Regulatory and a Committee of the Directors met to objectives and commercial strategy: Compliance and the Head of Investor consider and approve a Placing of shares.
approval of the annual operating and Relations are invited to attend the whole or capital expenditure budgets and any parts of the meetings to deliver their reports During the year, the Chairman met the other changes to them: on the business.
Any specific actions arising Non-executive Directors in the absence major investments or capital projects: during meetings are agreed by the Board of the Executive Directors to re-confirm the extension of the Groups activities and a comprehensive follow-up procedure and take account of their views.
All Noninto any new business or geographic ensures their completion.
executive Directors have sufficient time to areas, or to cease any material fulfil their commitments to the Company.
operations: Details of the attendance of the Directors changes in the Companys capital at meetings of the Board and its Committees structure or management and are set out in the table below.
control structure: Number of meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk Alan Jackson 11 of 11 4 of 4 6 of 6 1 of 1 4 of 4 Mor Weizer 11 of 11 Ron Hoffman 11 of 11 Hilary Stewart-Jones 10 of 11 4 of 4 5 of 6 1 of 1 4 of 4 Andrew Thomas 11 of 11 4 of 4 6 of 6 1 of 1 4 of 4 Paul Hewitt 2 of 11 1 of 4 3 of 6 1 of 4 50 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements approval of the Annual Report and In addition, PwC LLP, in their capacity as The Audit Committees report is set out Accounts, preliminary and halfon pages 55 to 57 and details the Audit providers of internal audit services, and yearly financial statements: interim members of the Groups senior management Committees membership, activities during management statements and the year, significant issues that it considered including the Chief Security Officer, the Chief announcements regarding dividends: Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and in relation to the financial statements and approval of treasury policies, including how those issues were addressed.
The report Chief Operating Officer may be invited to foreign currency exposures and use attend meetings to present matters or for also contains an explanation of how the of financial derivatives: Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Committee to have the benefit of their experience.
ensuring the maintenance of a sound the external audit process and the approach system of internal control and risk taken in relation to the appointment or The primary responsibilities delegated to, management: reappointment of the auditors.
entering into agreements that are and discharged by, the Committee include: not in the ordinary course of business Remuneration Committee or material strategically or by reason review managements identification The Remuneration Committee is responsible and mitigation of key risks to the of their size: for making recommendations to the Board changes to the size, composition achievement of the Companys on remuneration policy for the Chairman, objectives: or structure of the Board and its Executive Directors and senior management.
Committees: and monitor incidents and remedial activity: agree and monitor the risk assessment corporate governance matters.
The Directors Remuneration Report is programme including, in particular, set out on pages 58 to 72 and contains changes to the regulation of online In addition, the Board has adopted a formal details the Remuneration Committees delegation of authorities memorandum gambling and the assessment of membership, activities during the year and licensees suitability: which sets out levels of authority for the policy on remuneration.
The Chairman employees in the business.
agree on behalf of the Board and of the Remuneration Committee attends the continually review a risk management annual general meeting to respond to any The Board has delegated certain of its strategy and relevant policies for the questions that shareholders might raise on Group, including the employee code of responsibilities to a number of Committees the Remuneration Committees activities.
of the Board to assist in the discharge of its conduct, anti-bribery policy, anti-money duties.
The principal Committees currently laundering policy and wider social are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration responsibility issues: Risk & Compliance Committee Committee, the Risk & Compliance satisfy itself and report to the Board Under the Code, the Board is responsible Committee and the Nominations that the structures, processes and for determining the nature and extent of Committee.
The minutes of each of these responsibilities for identifying and the significant risks it is willing to take in Committees are circulated to and reviewed managing risks are adequate: and achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board by their members.
The Company Secretary monitor and procure ongoing should maintain a sound system of risk is secretary to each of these Committees.
compliance with the conditions of the management and internal control systems The Terms of Reference for each of the regulatory licenses held by the Group.
Committees are available to view on the Companys website www.
The Risk & Compliance Committee is chaired by Paul Hewitt.
The other members of the Audit Committee Committee are Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman, Andrew Thomas Non-executive The Audit Committees key objectives are Director and John Jackson Non-executive the provision of effective governance over Director.
Ian Ince Head of Regulatory the appropriateness of the Groups financial and Compliance, Robert Penfold Head of reporting, including the adequacy of related Internal Audit and Eyal Wagner Head of disclosures, the performance of both the Compliance Markets Limited attend the internal and external audit function, and Committee.
The Company Secretary, Brian the management of the Groups systems Moore, is secretary to the Committee.
of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 51 Governance Directors governance report continued A table setting out the principal significant The Nominations Committee has not The Risk & Compliance Committee met formally four times during the year and in risks identified by the Group including set itself any formal targets for diversity, with the oversight and input of the Risk & including gender, and believes that addition held a number of conference calls throughout the year, and a summary of the Compliance Committee and the mitigating appointments should be based on merit, actions that have been undertaken by the compared against objective criteria, with key matters considered by the Committee during 2015 are set out below: Group in relation to these is set out on pages the ultimate aim of ensuring the Board has 36 to 38 of this document.
the right skills, knowledge and experience monitor the regulatory position in that enable it to discharge its responsibilities properly.
a number of jurisdictions including Nominations Committee those which are of relative importance The Board is required by the Code to The Nominations Committee meets on to the Group financially and those establish a Nominations Committee where changes may represent a risk an as-needed basis.
One formal meeting which should lead the process for Board was held in 2015.
The meeting focused or opportunity for the Group: appointments and make recommendations consider the costs and regulatory on the consideration of candidates for the for appointments to the Board.
A majority appointment of additional Non-executive requirements for the Group to seek of members of the Nominations Committee relevant licenses in newly regulating Directors that led, after a process involving should be independent Non-executive the review of a number of potential markets: Directors.
The Nomination Committees applications by or on behalf of the candidates, to the appointment of Paul key objective is to ensure that the Board Hewitt in August 2015.
No external search Group for licences in existing or newly comprises individuals with the necessary regulated markets: consultancy was used in the appointment skills, knowledge and experience to of Paul Hewitt: however a list of candidates monitor developments in relation ensure that it is effective in discharging to changes in the regulatory regime from a range of backgrounds was prepared its responsibilities.
and the Nominations Committee agreed in the United Kingdom and receiving reports in relation to the likely impact a shortlist to be interviewed.
Following The Nominations Committee comprises on the Group and the need for entities a number of meetings between members Alan Jackson Chairman, Andrew Thomas, within the Group to apply for licences: and prospective candidates, the Nominations Paul Hewitt and John Jackson.
consider the overall effectiveness Committee went on to recommend Paul of the compliance strategy and the Hewitts appointment as a Non-executive The Nominations Committee reviews regulatory risks to the Groups Director of the Company having considered the structure, size and composition of operations and revenues: in detail his skills, knowledge and experience the Board and its Committees and makes receive and consider reports on particularly with regard to the financial recommendations with regard to any discussions with, and the results services industry given the expansion of the changes considered necessary in the of audits by, regulators: Groups operations to include the Financials identification and nomination of new monitoring compliance with regulatory division.
Paul Hewitt will formally stand for Directors, the reappointment of existing licences held in all jurisdictions and election at the next annual general meeting Directors and appointment of members adapting procedures, products and to be held on 18 May 2016. to the Boards Committees.
It also assesses technology as appropriate: the roles of the existing Directors in review reports by PwC as external Disclosure Committee office to ensure that there continues advisers on risk management: to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, The Disclosure Committee ensures accuracy consideration of the risks identified knowledge, experience and diversity.
and timeliness of public announcements of from the Groups risk register and The Nominations Committee reviews the Company and monitors the Companys of the effectiveness of actions the senior leadership needs of the Group obligations under the Listing Rules and taken to mitigate such risks: and to enable it to compete effectively in Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the consideration of the key risks associated the marketplace.
The Nominations UK Listing Authority.
Meetings are held with the new Financials division.
Committee also advises the Board on as required.
At the date of this Report the succession planning for Executive Director Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew The Committee has been kept informed appointments although the Board itself Thomas Chairman of the Audit Committee, of any changes to the regulatory position is responsible for succession generally.
Ron Hoffman Chief Financial Officer, in any significant jurisdiction where the Brian Moore Company Secretary and Group, through its licensees, and Financials Andrew Smith Head of Investor Relations.
division, may be exposed and updated on progress in relation to agreed action items on a regular basis.
The Committee can also convene meetings on a more frequent basis or as when matters arise, if it is determined that enhanced monitoring of a specific risk is warranted.
52 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notwithstanding the provisions of the Management Committee Evaluation articles of association, the Board has decided The senior management committee is the The Board is committed to an ongoing to comply with the Code requirements that key management committee for the Group.
evaluation process of itself and its Directors of companies in the FTSE350 Index The standing members of the Committee Committees to assess their performance and submit themselves for re-election annually.
are Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer, Ron identify areas in which their effectiveness, Therefore, all Directors are seeking their Hoffman Chief Financial Officer, Shimon policies and processes might be enhanced.
reappointment at this years AGM.
Akad Chief Operating Officer, Uri Levy Alan Jackson, in discussion with the Senior VP Business Development, Ian Ince Head Non-executive Director, undertook a review The Board has collectively agreed that of Regulatory and Compliance and Brian of the performance of individual Directors.
the Directors proposed for re-election at Moore Company Secretary.
Other members Andrew Thomas as Senior Non-executive this years AGM have made significant of senior management are invited to the Director considered the performance of Mr contributions to the business since their Committee as and when required.
The Jackson taking into account the views of the last re-election and each has a key role Committee considers and discusses plans Executive Directors.
There were no material to play in the formulation of the Groups and recommendations coming from the areas of concern highlighted and the main future strategy.
operational side of the business and from outcome of the evaluation this year was to the various product verticals, in the light the shape and define the Boards objectives for In certain circumstances, Directors are Groups strategy and capital expenditure the coming year, continuing the focus on entitled to seek independent professional and investment budgets, including the Group strategy and ensuring the structures, advice under an agreed Board procedure, implications of those plans in areas such as capabilities and reporting are in place to which would then be organised by the resources, budget, legal and compliance.
Company Secretary, and in this regard The Committee either approves the plans or the Company would meet their reasonable as necessary refers the proposal for formal A review of the Boards effectiveness legal expenses.
Board review and approval in accordance was conducted in late 2015.
The review was facilitated by Independent Audit with the Companys formal matters reserved Balance of the Board for the Board.
Limited, using their Thinking Board online The Board comprises individuals with assessment service.
Their facilitation helped ensure that the review was rigorous and wide business experience gained in various Board tenure industry sectors related to the Groups covered the important influences on the In accordance with the Companys articles Boards effectiveness.
The Board is in the current business and it is the intention of association, every new Director appointed of the Board to ensure that the balance process of considering the findings from in the year is required to stand for rethis review and will continue to adopt and of the Directors reflects the changing election by shareholders at the annual needs of the business.
implement plans to further develop the general meeting AGM next following effectiveness of the Board during 2016. their appointment.
Also, under the articles The Board considers that it is of a size of association, at each AGM one-third of Newly appointed Directors can expect and has the balance of skills, knowledge, the Directors excluding any Director who experience and independence that is a detailed and systematic induction on has been appointed by the Board since the joining the Board.
They meet various appropriate for the Groups current business.
previous AGM or, if their number is not While not having a specific policy regarding members of senior management and an integral multiple of three, the number familiarise themselves with all core the constitution and balance of the Board, nearest to one-third but not exceeding potential new Directors are considered on aspects of the Groups operations.
On one-third shall retire from office but so that request, meetings can be arranged with their own merits with regard to their skills, if there are fewer than three Directors who knowledge, experience and credentials.
Members of senior are subject to retirement by rotation under management are invited to attend Board the articles one shall retire.
The Non-executive Directors continue to meetings from time to time to present on specific areas of the Groups business.
contribute their considerable collective experience and wide-ranging skills to the Board and provide a valuable independent perspective: where necessary constructively challenging proposals, policy and practices of executive management.
In addition, they help formulate the Groups strategy.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 53 Governance Directors governance report continued On 14 November 2014, the Company Relationship with shareholders Investor relations and and Brickington entered into a variation communications Primary responsibility for effective to the relationship agreement the communication with shareholders lies Relationship Agreement in order to ensure The Company has well-established Investor with the Chairman, but all the Companys compliance with amendments made to Relations IR processes, which support Directors are available to meet with the Listing Rules during 2014.
The principal a structured programme of communications shareholders throughout the year.
Alan change to the Relationship Agreement was with existing and potential investors and Jackson, Mor Weizer and Ron Hoffman to provide that Brickington would not take analysts.
Executive Directors and members met with a number of shareholders to steps to prevent the articles of association of the IR team participated in a number discuss the Companys business strategy from permitting the election or re-election of investor events, attending industry throughout the year.
The Executive Directors of independent Directors.
conferences and regularly meet or are prepare a general presentation for analysts in contact with existing and potential and institutional shareholders following the The Board believes that the provisions institutional investors from around the interim and preliminary announcements.
of the Relationship Agreement provides world, ensuring that Group performance Details of these presentations together reassurance that Brickington will not seek and strategy is effectively communicated, with the Groups financial statements and to exercise its shareholding capriciously within regulatory constraints.
Other other announcements can be found on the and re-enforces the independence representatives of the Board and senior investor relations section of the Companys of the Company.
management meet with investors from time website.
Further presentations are also to time.
The Head of IR provides regular prepared following significant acquisitions The Board confirms that, during 2015: reports to the Board on related matters, and whenever the Board considers it issues of concern to investors, and analysts beneficial to shareholders to do so.
Regular the Company has complied with the views and opinions.
meetings with shareholders and potential independence provisions included shareholders are also held by the Head of in the Relationship Agreement: Whenever required, the Executive Investor Relations, and in conjunction with so far as the Company is aware, the Directors and the Chairman communicate either the Chief Executive Officer or the independence provisions included in with Canaccord Genuity to confirm Chief Financial Officer.
shareholder sentiment and to consult the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by Brickington and its on governance issues.
The Company endeavours to answer all associates: and queries raised by shareholders promptly.
so far as the Company is aware, the During 2015, 52 regulatory announcements procurement obligations included were released informing the market of The Companys largest shareholder is in the Relationship Agreement, have acquisitions, corporate actions, important Brickington Trading Limited Brickington.
been complied with by Brickington customer contracts, financial results, Brickington is a wholly owned subsidiary and its associates.
the results of annual general meetings of a trust, one of the ultimate beneficiaries and Board changes.
Copies of these of which is Teddy Sagi, one of the Groups Separately, Mr Sagi entered into an announcements, together with other IR founders.
In connection with the Companys agreement with the Company in 2012 information and documents, are available premium listing on the main market of the pursuant to which he will, as and when on the Group website www.
London Stock Exchange, the Company requested to do so by the Board, provide and Brickington entered into a relationship advisory services to the Company for Summary agreement, pursuant to which Brickington a nominal fee of 1 per annum until has agreed that: i it will vote its shares in In presenting this report, and having either Mr Sagi ceases to be interested such a manner so as to procure that each monitored, reviewed or approved all whether legally or beneficially in any member of the Group is capable of carrying shareholder communications in 2015 and Ordinary Shares or either party terminates on its business independently of Brickington since the end of the financial year, the Board the agreement following its fifth anniversary, and its associates: and ii it will not exercise is confident that it has presented a balanced whichever is the earlier.
During the year, any of the voting rights attaching to its and understandable assessment of the the Company has sought advisory services shares in such a manner so as to procure Companys position and prospects.
on occasion in relation to certain significant any amendment to the articles of association strategic matters.
which would be inconsistent with, undermine Alan Jackson or breach any of the provisions of the Chairman Shareholders are encouraged to participate relationship agreement.
Brickington also in the Companys AGM, at which the agreed that all transactions and relationships 25 February 2016 Chairman will present the key highlights between it or any of its associates and the of the Groups performance.
The Board will Company will be on arms length terms and be available at the AGM to answer questions on a normal commercial basis.
54 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
