GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder, This resulted in a vacancy for the Senior Independent Non-Executive I am pleased to present to you, on behalf of the Board of Directors, Director position.
The Committee instructed an external recruitment the report of the Governance and Nominations Committee for the company to consider candidates and, following an extensive financial year ending 29th March 2015. exercise, Miles Roberts was duly recommended to the Board and his appointment was subsequently approved in October 2014.
ROLE AND PURPOSE The Governance and Nominations Committee was established by a The second followed the resignation of Trevor Bond due to his new resolution of the Board of Directors on 27th February 2014 to assist role at Johnson & Johnson.
The Committee consulted with the the Board in:- external recruitment company to select candidates for the Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee.
Pursuant to a detailed process 1. reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, the Committee recommended, and the Board approved, the 2. reviewing succession plans for the Directors, including the appointment of Tim Jones in October 2014 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives As part of the Committees commitment to complying with the 3. ensuring legal and regulatory compliance in respect of good Code, a further recruitment search was instigated to appoint an corporate governance, and additional independent non-executive director.
The Committee 4. evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, diversity and considered a number of candidates before recommending to the independence on the Board.
Board and the Board approving, the appointment of Mary Barnard in March 2015.
The Committee will also make recommendations to the Board regarding the make-up of Board Committees, whether to We believe that the Board has achieved an appropriate level of reappoint Directors at the end of their term of office and make Independence with the appointment of the independent nonrecommendations about the re-election of Directors put forward for executive directors referred to above.
The Committee will also consider the diversity of the Board and recommend changes as appropriate.
Diversity In addition the appointment of Mary Barnard improves the MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS representation of female directors on the Board.
The Board now Membership of the Governance and Nominations Committee consists of 8 directors, split between 2 female and 6 male directors, together with appointment dates, is set out below representing 25% female representation.
Further details are provided in the Statement of Corporate Governance.
Committee Member membership since th During the year the Committee has commenced a comprehensive Grant Hearn Chairman 27 February, 2014 th succession plan.
Plans have been completed for the Executive Tea Colaianni 27 February, 2014 th Directors and also the next layer of management, the Executive Darren Shapland 27 February, 2014 th Team.
Work has now begun on succession plans for the next level Miles Roberts 30 October, 2014 th of senior management.
Tim Jones 30 October, 2014 th Mary Barnard 12 March 2015 Grant Hearn Chairman of Governance & Nominations Committee Composition of the Governance and Nominations Committee 18th June 2015 changed on 19th September 2014 with the resignation of Trevor Bond who had been a member since February 2014 and on 30th October with the appointment of Miles Roberts, Tim Jones and on 12th March 2015 with the appointment of Mary Barnard.
Paul Best resigned as a member on 17th June 2015.
The biography of each member of the Governance and Nominations Committee is set out on pages 34 to 35.
In addition the Chief Executive Officer attends on the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Company Secretary provides legal and secretarial support to the Committee.
The Governance and Nominations Committee met 5 times during the year, details of attendance by members are shown on page 39.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW Apart from its role in advising the Board on regulatory and compliance matters during the year, the Committee has concentrated on two additional specific matters following the resignation of Andrew Higginson as Chairman.
The first after a review by the Committee was the recommendation to appointment Darren Shapland as Chairman in July 2014. www.
