GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder, on the areas of significant judgement or audit risk in the financial I am pleased to present to you, on behalf of the Board, the report statements.
of the Audit and Risk Committee for the period ending 29th March 2015 During the year the Committee has specifically: ROLE AND PURPOSE 1.
Considered the half year and full year financial results, 2.
Considered the scope and cost of the external audit, The Audit and Risk Committee was established by a resolution of 3.
Approved internal foreign exchange and surplus funds the Board of Directors on 27th February 2014 to assist the Board investment policies, in:- 4.
Instigated the establishment of an internal audit function within the Profit Protection and Audit Team and, 1. its responsibilities in respect of financial reporting, including 5.
Undertaken a review of risks and uncertainties facing the reviewing annual and half-year results: business.
2. advising on the independence and appointment of the external auditors: Based on their performance during this financial year, the Committee 3. reviewing its obligations in the areas of risk management: will be recommending KPMG LLP KPMG be reappointed at the 4. reviewing the external auditors management letter on internal AGM.
financial controls: 5. reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit and The first trading year for the Group as a listed entity has been an the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by the external exciting and very busy time for colleagues across the business auditors.
who have succeeded in coping with all the additional demands associated with becoming a public listed company whilst MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS maintaining adequate controls and business as usual.
It is pleasing All members of the Committee are Independent NonExecutive to see the continued commitment of our colleagues to the business Directors, free from any relationship or circumstance which may and in particular our customers to whom we strive to provide affect their judgement and at least one such member has recent amazing value every day.
The make-up of the Committee together with appointment dates, is set out below Tim Jones Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Committee member Membership since 18th June 2015 Tim Jones Chairman 30th October 2014 Grant Hearn 27th February 2014 Tea Colaianni 27th February 2014 Miles Roberts 30th October 2014 Mary Barnard 12th March 2015 During the year composition of the Committee changed on 19th September 2014 with the resignation of the existing Committee Chairman Trevor Bond and subsequently with the appointment of Tim Jones as chairman and Miles Roberts both on 30th October 2014 and Mary Barnard on 12th March 2015.
Darren Shapland was a member of the Committee until his appointment as Chairman in July.
The biography of each member of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out on pages 34 to 35.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend meetings on the invitation of the Committee and the Head of Profit Protection & Audit advises the Committee on the identification and evaluation of risks and uncertainties.
The Audit and Risk Committee met 4 times during the year, details of attendance by members are shown on page 39.
The Committee routinely looks at the significant accounting treatments adopted by the Group and at the year-end focuses POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 42 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 During the year the Committee reviewed these judgements which Significant issues considered by the Audit and are described further in the relevant accounting policies and detailed Risk Committee notes to the financial statements.
Following discussion with both management and the external auditors, the Committee determined that the key accounting The auditors reported to the Committee any misstatements judgements included in the Groups financial statements included, that they had found in the course of their work and no material but were not limited to: adjustments were required.
Significant risk Corresponding action taken by the After reviewing the presentations and reports from management Committee to address these concerns considered by and consulting where necessary with the auditors, the Committee the Committee was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately addressed in relation to the critical judgements and key estimates both in respect of the the financial amounts reported and disclosures.
statements valuation of Management prepared an analysis and Internal control environment explanation of movements in inventory and inventory inventory provisions, which was reviewed in The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the auditors had conjunction with the results of a data analytics fulfilled their responsibilities with due diligence and professionalism.
exercise performed by KPMG over inventory held at warehouse.
The Committee concluded Following the appointment of a new Head of Loss Prevention the that inventory values were fairly stated in the balance sheet.
incumbent Loss Prevention team were evaluated and roles were changed to ensure focus around key risk KPIs.
The team has been rebranded to Profit Protection & Audit and is managed by Terry Significant Corresponding action taken by the Poole, former head of Profit Protection Group at Sainsburys.
Terry Committee to address these concerns judgements has over 25 years experience, including international experience, considered by in the loss prevention and risk management field.
Other members the Committee of the team include an experienced Stock Integrity Manager with in relation to the financial a wealth of knowledge in stock management systems: a new statements Operational Auditor who is an ex business manager who has been with the Group over 8 years and a new Senior Auditor who is a recognition of Recognition of rebates and supplier income inevitably involves some element of judgement member of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
Over the rebates and as to future volumes as many agreements are supplier income next year the scope and programme of work for this team will be not coterminous with the groups accounting developed.
Management prepared an analysis of income, detailing movement by type and as a The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal proportion of total sales.
This was considered alongside the amount uncollected as at the control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Committee concluded The Committee has considered the process by which the Group that the amounts recognised were appropriate approaches risk management and is satisfied that the Group has valuation of The group balance sheet contains significant systems and procedures in place to identify, evaluate and manage value with respect to goodwill and intangible intangible all material risks to the business.
The key assumptions used to underpin assets these values were considered, including These systems and procedures are designed to manage rather projected cashflows extracted from the Group budget and corporate plan, along with the than eliminate risk of failure, to achieve business objectives.
They sensitivity of available headroom to these can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against key assumptions.
The Committee concluded material misstatement or loss.
Similarly the Committee is satisfied that a sensible and reasoned approach had that this process has been in place for the year under review and been taken to preparing the calculations and that there were no immediate indications of up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial impairment.
Statements and that the process will be regularly reviewed by the Board.
treatment of In order to assist investors with a better understanding of performance, the financial non-underlying statements include presentation of the items Assessing external audit effectiveness underlying performance of the business.
Amounts excluded from underlying performance The Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the external include non-recurring project costs, an auditor.
The Committees meeting agenda includes sessions with international trial of operations in Spain, brand the auditor without management present with the purpose of amortisation and the ineffective element of understanding the auditors views on the control and governance derivative hedges.
The Committee reviewed the basis and consistency of calculating and environment and managements effectiveness within it.
reporting adjustments to underlying performance and concluded that they were appropriate To fulfil its responsibilities in respect of the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee reviewed: The terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of work of the external auditor as set out in the engagement letter: www.
com 43 GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued The audit work plan for the Group: prior year, were of the opinion that KPMG were uniquely placed The detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion of any to undertake the considerable amount of work that was required major issues that arose during the audit: to complete that process within the timescales required.
In the Confirmation from KPMG of its independence and objectivity: current year, KPMG have also supported the Company in the The audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided acquisition of 99p Stores Limited, which is currently undergoing a during the year.
Phase 2 referral by the CMA.
This has led to a short term increase in the amount of work undertaken by KPMG in the current and The external auditors are appointed by Shareholders to provide an proceeding financial years.
Full details are given in Note 8 to the opinion on the financial statements and certain other disclosures Financial Statements on page 82. prepared by the Directors.
KPMG acted as the external auditors to Poundland throughout the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of auditrelated and non-audit fees, and the nature of services provided, are not The principle followed with regard to non-audit services is that the such as to compromise the objectivity and independence of the auditors may not provide a service which: external auditors.
Places them in a position to audit their own work.
KPMG has been appointed as auditors of Poundland Group plc for Creates a mutuality of interest.
the last two reporting periods ended 30th March 2014 and 29th Results in the auditors developing close personal relationships March 2015.
The Group will be giving consideration to the timing of with Poundland employees.
the next formal tender in light of the Code, the recent Competition Results in the auditors functioning as a manager or employee of Commission and EU recommendations on audit tendering and Poundland.
Puts the auditors in the role of advocate for Poundland.
The Group has no contractual arrangements for example, within Over the next year the Committee will be formulating a formal borrowing arrangements that restrict its choice of auditor.
policy, with built in levels of authority, to control the awarding of nonaudit work to the Companys external auditor.
Under normal circumstances non-audit services are subject to market tender or tests and are awarded to the most appropriate Tim Jones provider.
However because of their extensive working knowledge Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee of the Poundland Group, the Board at the time of the IPO in the 18th June 2015 POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 44 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015
