STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following sections explain how the Company applies the Company, its promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, which main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, in the judgement of the Board may affect their independence of September 2012 issued by the Financial Reporting Council the judgement.
2012 Code, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and meets the relevant information provisions The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that at least of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct half the Board of Directors of a UK-listed company, excluding the Authority.
Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the board to be independent in character and judgement and The Board and its Role free from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The Board is collectively responsible to its shareholders for the future success of the Company.
It is committed to the highest Following the retirement of Stephen Coates in January 2015 and standards of corporate governance.
Subject to the Companys Paul Best in June 2015 as Non-Executive Directors representing Articles of Association and the Companies Act, the business of the the Companys principal shareholder, Warburg Pincus Funds Company is managed by the Board of Directors who may exercise the Company now complies with this recommendation of the UK and manage all of the powers of the Company.
The Boards main Corporate Governance Code.
Warburg Pincus Funds have entered responsibilities are set out below.
The Board delegates certain into a Relationship Agreement with the Company under the terms matters to the three Committees of the Board.
of which, for as long as they and their associates control in excess of 15% of the votes able to be cast, they are entitled to appoint one Other than as set out below the Company has complied, and Non-Executive Director.
They currently control 16.4% of the voting intends to continue to comply, with the requirements of the UK rights of the Company.
The Directors believe that the terms of the Relationship Agreement The Board has a schedule of matters which are reserved for its own will enable Poundland to carry on its business independently of consideration, which includes: Warburg Pincus Funds.
The overall management of the Company and the Group and Diversity the approval of long-term objectives and commercial strategy: Poundland supports the principles of diversity in its Board Changes relating to the capital structure of the Company: and senior management team.
Currently the Board consists Approval of financial reporting, dividend policy and significant of 8 directors, split between two female and 6 male directors, changes in accounting policies and practices: representing 25% female representation.
The Board are pleased Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control to note this is ahead of the current 18% achieved by FTSE 250 and risk management: Companies as reported in the latest Women on Boards Davies Review Annual report March 2015.
Major capital projects and corporate actions, acquisitions, disposals or material joint ventures: The Group Executive Team consists of 8 members.
Following the Ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with Shareholders based on a appointment of Michelle Burton, this now consists of two female mutual understanding of objectives: members and 6 male members.
Board membership and senior appointments within the Group: Conflicts of Interest Remuneration of Board members and Executive Team: and Approval of the Groups principal professional advisors.
There are no potential conflicts of interest between any duties owed by the Directors or Senior Management, the Company and their private interests or other duties.
The Board has delegated a number of these responsibilities to standing committees of the Board, as detailed below, and also to Committees of the Board the Executive management of the Group having first approved the Certain aspects of the Boards duties and responsibilities have terms of reference of those committees and the authority limits of been delegated to appropriately constituted committees to ensure management and receives regular reports in respect of all delegated compliance with the regulatory requirement.
As envisaged by the UK authorities.
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a Governance and Nominations Committee The Board comprises eight members, including two Executive and a Remuneration Committee.
If the need should arise, the Board Directors and six Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
may set up additional committees.
For the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board regards Darren Shapland, the Chairman, as independent on his appointment and regards the following as independent NonExecutive Directors: Miles Roberts, Tea Colaianni, Grant Hearn, Tim Jones and Mary Barnard.
Miles Roberts is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
Independence is determined by ensuring that, apart from receiving their fees for acting as Directors, Non-Executive Directors do not have any other material relationship or transactions with the www.
com 37 GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued In addition, the Committee will be responsible for ensuring that the Audit and Risk Committee Company complies with, and where possible exceeds, all laws and The Audit and Risk Committees role is to assist the Board with regulations to do with the good and ethical governance of corporate the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, entities and that all such matters are kept under constant review and including reviewing the Groups annual and half year financial relevant mitigating actions are taken if required.
statements and accounting policies, internal and external audits and controls, reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit and Remuneration Committee the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, The Remuneration Committee recommends the Groups policy on advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the executive remuneration, determines the levels of remuneration for effectiveness of the internal audit, internal controls, whistleblowing Executive Directors and the Chairman and other senior executives and fraud systems in place within the Group.
The Audit and Risk and prepares an Annual Remuneration Report for approval by the Committee will normally meet not less than three times a year.
Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee will normally meet not less than three times a year.
The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Tim Jones and its other members are Miles Roberts, Tea Colaianni, Grant Hearn and The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Tea Colaianni and its Mary Barnard.
Meetings are also attended by the Chairman, CEO, other members are Miles Roberts, Tim Jones, Grant Hearn and CFO and Head of Profit Protection & Audit, all at the invitation of Mary Barnard.
The Chairman, CEO and Trading Board HR Director the Committee Chairman.
The UK Corporate Governance Code also attend on the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The UK recommends that all members of the Audit and Risk Committee be Corporate Governance Code recommends that all members of the Non-Executive Directors, independent in character and judgement Remuneration Committee be Non-Executive Directors, independent and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could in character and judgement and free from any relationship or or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement and that circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear one such member has recent and relevant financial experience.
The to, affect their judgement.
The Board considers that the Group Board considers that the Company complies with the requirements complies with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance of the UK Corporate Governance Code in this respect.
Governance and Nominations Committee Since the time of its inauguration, the Committee has employed The Governance and Nominations Committee assists the Board external advisors, New Bridge Street, a consulting agency which in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, specialises in executive remuneration, to advise and assist in reviewing succession plans for the Directors, including the Chairman formulating and introducing a sustainable remuneration policy.
and Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives and ensuring legal and regulatory compliance in respect of corporate governance.
The Governance and Nominations Committee will normally meet not less than twice a year.
The Governance and Nominations Committee is chaired by Grant Hearn and its other members are Miles Roberts, Tea Colaianni, Tim Jones, Mary Barnard and Darren Shapland.
Meetings are also attended by the CEO, at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that a majority of the Governance and Nominations Committee be Non-Executive Directors, independent in character and judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
The Board considers that the Company complies with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code in this respect.
When the Board wishes to appoint a Director, the Committee will take the lead in the process and, after taking due account of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity on the Board, will prepare a description of the role, required capabilities and expected time commitment and, using external agencies if appropriate, will identify suitable candidates for consideration by the Board as a whole.
The Committee will also make recommendations to the Board regarding the make-up of Board Committees, whether to reappoint Directors at the end of their term of office and make recommendations about the re-election of Directors put forward for retirement by rotation in accordance with the articles of association of the Company.
The Committee will also consider the diversity of the Board.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 38 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Directors Attendance Chart The Board of Directors Respondents were positive regarding the terms of reference of The schedule below details meetings for the financial year ended 29 the Board and the right composition of directors and skills and March 2015: experience.
Governance and The administration of operation of the Board was generally positive.
Audit and Risk Nominations Remuneration The frequency of meetings was deemed good and availability of Director Board Committee Committee Committee resources and information to enable the Board to undertake its role Jim McCarthy 8 8 also received a positive response.
Whilst induction on appointment Nick Hateley 8 8 was good, matters such as training and ongoing education were areas identified for improvement.
Whilst all responses were very Richard positive on the role of the board since the IPO, everyone felt its Lancaster 8 8 effectiveness could be improved.
All responses believed this would Darren evolve over time, aided by the experience of the more recently Shapland 8 8 5 5 3 3 appointed non-executive directors.
Miles Roberts 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 Tea Colaianni 6 8 2 4 4 5 4 4 The Audit and Risk Committee Grant Hearn 8 8 4 4 5 5 4 4 The objectives and terms of the Committee, membership, attendance and frequency of meetings were thought to be Mary Barnard 1 1 1 1 acceptable.
More training and supporting information for meetings Tim Jones 2 4 2 2 1 1 0 1 was proposed.
The role and workings of the Committee were Andrew thought to be good, in terms of meeting its remit, the volume of Higginson 2 2 2 3 work and the efficient management of the Committees time.
The Trevor Bond 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 3 identification and management of risk required more work, but members accepted the role of the Committee in this respect was Stephen evolving.
Coates 7 8 Paul Best 7 8 4 5 The Governance and Nominations Committee Responses were positive in terms of the Committees mandate, composition and frequency of meetings.
It was felt that the Before his appointment as Chairman at the end of July 2014, Committee was transparent in the nomination process and Darren Shapland as Senior Independent NED was a member of all engaging all members in the process.
Generally it was felt the three committees.
From the start of the reporting period until his effectiveness of the Committee could be improved, even though appointment, Mr Shaplands attendance at Committee meetings members accepted this was the first year and the Committee was was: still in its infancy.
Audit & Risk Committee 1 1 The Remuneration Committee Governance & Nominations Committee 2 2 The responses were positive in terms of the Committees mandate Remuneration Committee 3 3 and composition.
It was felt that the Committee was effectively achieving its objectives.
The number of meetings each year was Mr Shapland remains a member of the Governance & Nominations deemed to be sufficient: attendance and commitment of members Committee.
was positive and support from external advisers NBS well received.
Tea Colaianni missed two Board meetings, one due to personal In summary all responses agreed that the three Committees had reasons which also prevented her attending meetings of the Audit been effective during their first year and this would continue to & Risk and Governance & Nominations Committee as a newly improve as the Committees evolved.
appointed director, held on the same day, and the other due to diary conflicts.
Tim Jones also missed two Board meetings due to The Chairman diary conflicts as a newly appointed Director.
A review process was conducted internally, undertaken by Miles Roberts, Senior INED, based on a questionnaire and discussion with Audit and Risk Committee and Governance and Nominations each Director.
Details were discussed with the Chairman, together Committee meetings have been held since the year end.
Board Performance Evaluation There was a general positive response on the role and effectiveness In 2015 an internal Board evaluation was undertaken its purpose of the Chairman.
Directors were particularly impressed by his being to measure the degree of effectiveness of the Board and knowledge of the industry given the many years he has worked in its three committees.
In addition a review of the Chairmans closely aligned companies.
performance was conducted by Miles Roberts, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Time commitment and general availability were considered to be excellent as was the considerable amount of time he spends in A summary of the findings following the review are as follows: the business and with the Executive and Executive management www.
com 39 GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued team.
Everyone had agreed that this was critical given the significant by the Group and the effectiveness of related controls has been changes the Company had been through and would continue to established.
The key elements are: experience as part of its growth strategy.
a comprehensive system of reporting from executives identifying performance against budget, analysis of variances, major The overall view was that the Chairman enabled and promoted business issues, key performance indicators and regular good discussions on a wide range of issues.
The meetings were forecasting: inclusive with no single Director or the Chairman dominating.
well defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: and Shareholder Communication reviews of key business risks and of managements controls and The Board believes that it is important to explain business plans to mitigate these risks.
developments and financial results to all of the Companys stakeholders, including Shareholders and also to understand any During the financial period to 29 March 2015 and up to the date concerns that Shareholders may have.
The principal communication of this report, the Audit and Risk Committee and management media used to impart information, including financial results, are considered the Companys Risk Register and its alignment with the news releases, investor presentations and visits and Company Companys strategic objectives, reporting the findings to the Board.
The Board considered the key risks and relevant mitigating actions and determined that they were acceptable for a retail business The Company will also communicate with its Shareholders through of the size and complexity as that operated by the Company.
the Annual General Meeting at which the Board will give an account More information on the key risks and uncertainties faced by the of the progress during the preceding year, review current issues Company are shown on pages 26 to 27. and provide Shareholders the opportunity to ask questions of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, other Executive Directors Whistleblowing Policy and the Chairs of the Boards standing committees who will all be in The Company has a duty to conduct its affairs in an open and attendance.
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance and compliance with legislation and appropriate codes In addition, the Company will consult with its larger Shareholders of practice.
By knowing about any wrong doing or malpractice at an on any issue on which it considers it appropriate to do so or where early stage, we stand a good chance of taking the necessary steps it needs to canvass views before taking any particular course of to stop it.
We have a policy in place which is designed to encourage action.
colleagues to identify such situations and report them without fear of repercussions or recriminations provided that they are acting in Finally two Roadshows are held each year following the good faith.
announcement of our full year and interim results.
Shareholders are invited to attend and meet with the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor The policy sets out how any concerns may be raised and response Relations.
can be expected from the Company and in what timescales.
Our Chairman is always available to answer individual shareholder External Auditors Independence Statement enquiries and to meet shareholders if requested.
Professional ethical standards require KPMG LLP KPMG to communicate to the Company as part of planning all significant Internal Controls and Risk Management facts and matters, including those related to the provision of Overall responsibility for the system of internal control, reviewing non-audit services and the safeguards put in place that, in their its effectiveness and ensuring that there is a process to identify, professional judgement, may reasonably be thought to bear on evaluate and manage any significant risks that may affect the KPMGs independence and the objectivity of the audit partner and achievement of the Companys strategic objectives lies with the audit team.
KPMG have confirmed that they are satisfied that their general The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee have reviewed the procedures support their independence and objectivity.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for UK Corporate Governance Code the period ended 29 March 2015 and up to the date of approving Compliance Statement the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The internal control and risk management system is designed to manage, rather than The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code applies to the can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Company and is available on the FRC website at www.
uk material misstatement or loss.
The Financial Conduct The Groups Executive Team principally reviews the effectiveness of Authority requires that certain compliance statements are made in controls operating within the business.
This report addresses these requirements.
For the period from 31 March 2014 to 29 March 2015 the Company The assessment and control of risk are considered by the Board complied with the provisions of the Code, as applicable, except to be fundamental to achieving corporate objectives.
process of identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 40 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015
