54 Premier Farnell Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report Gary Hughes from 1 November 2014, Chairman from 1 February 2015 Who else is on the Committee?
- Dennis Millard Chairman to 31 January 2015 Key objective: - Andrew Dougal To ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly - Peter Ventress protected in relation to financial reporting and internal controls.
- Paul Withers Responsibilities: Committee Secretary: Steven Webb To review accounting policies and the integrity and content of the financial statements Gary Hughes is a qualified chartered accountant, with a To monitor disclosure controls and procedures and background in corporate finance, who brings to the role of the Groups internal controls Chairman of the Committee recent and relevant financial To consider the adequacy and scope of external expertise from both his executive and non-executive and internal audits appointments.
Gary is supported by three independent Non-Executive Directors, all of whom have considerable To oversee the appointment and ongoing relationship recent financial experience.
Further details on the with the external auditor Committee members experience can be found on At the Boards request, to provide advice on whether pages 44 and 45. the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair balanced and understandable Other regular attendees at scheduled meetings include the Chief Executive, the Board Chairman, the other NonTo monitor the objectivity, independence and Executive Directors, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal effectiveness of the external auditor, particularly with Audit and lead external audit partner.
Committee members regard to the scope and expenditure on non-audit work regularly take time before or after a meeting, without any To review and approve the statements to be included in the Executive Directors or senior management present, to raise Annual Report on internal control and risk management any questions and discuss issues with the external auditor or Head of Internal Audit.
The Chairman of the Audit To review and report on the significant issues considered Committee meets each of the CFO, Head of Internal Audit in relation to the financial statements and how these and the external auditor separately to review current issues have been addressed and developments prior to each meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer for line management purposes and functionally to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 55 The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually The split between audit and non-audit fees for 2014 15 and and are available on the Governance section of our website information on the nature of the non-audit fees incurred is at www.
detailed on page 107 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee has adopted and implemented a Group-wide policy restricting the employment by the Group What did the Committee do during the year under review?
of former employees of the external auditor.
The key activities for the Committee in 2014 15 were: Reviewed the integrity of financial statements Assessed and approved the audit process In addition to the Committees responsibility to review the Annual In accordance with the Code, the Committee monitored the Report at the request of the Board, the Committee also monitors effectiveness of both the internal audit and external audit the integrity of all financial statements in the Annual Report and functions including the performance of the lead audit partner half year results statement and the significant financial reporting and Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee reviewed and judgements contained in them.
The Company Secretary reports commented on the internal and external audit plans before to the Committee on the proceedings of each Disclosure they were approved.
It considered progress during the year, Committee meeting which reviews the interim and preliminary assessing the auditors principal findings and taking feedback results announcements following management verification, seeks from management involved in the audit process.
assurance on management sign-offs and assesses the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Further details of Having concluded their review in 2014 15, the Committee the Committees processes to review the effectiveness of the considers the external auditor to be independent, objective Groups systems of internal control during the year can be and effective in its role.
Accordingly, the Committee intends found in Risk management and internal control below.
to recommend to the Board that  LLP are proposed for reappointment as the Companys external Determined the significant issues affecting the Group auditor at the June 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The The Committee recognises that all financial statements Committee also considers internal audit to be effective in include estimates and judgements by management.
The key appraising the implementation and monitoring of internal audit areas are agreed with management and the external controls and risk management.
auditor as part of the year-end audit planning process.
This includes an assessment by management at both a business The Committee plans to put the Groups requirement for unit and Group level of the significant areas requiring audit services out to tender once in each ten year period, management judgement.
These areas are reviewed with the in accordance with the Code, FRC guidance and relevant auditors to ensure that appropriate levels of audit work are EU legislation requiring mandatory audit tenders for all listed completed and the results of this work are reviewed by the companies.
The tender will coincide with the rotation of the Committee.
In 2014 15 these areas were: lead audit partner which takes place every five years.
The next rotation and audit tender is scheduled for 2017 2018.
Inventory and inventory valuation  LLP were first appointed as the Consolidated Group inventories as at the year end were Groups auditor in 1997.
The accounting policy in respect of inventory and the valuation of inventory, is set out in the Accounting Policies Monitored non-audit services note to the Groups financial statements on page 102.
The The independence and objectivity of the external auditor was Groups provisioning policy is generally applied on a consistent, also considered by the Committee, as it is each year, with systematic basis recognising the level of sales and level of particular regard given to the level of non-audit fees.
A formal inventory at the period end.
The review of this calculation, policy is maintained on the provision of non-audit services its accuracy and the appropriateness of the end result with which prohibits the provision of services such as financial respect to the requirement to provide against slow moving information systems design and implementation, internal audit and obsolete inventory was reviewed in detail.
The history of outsourcing or legal services and permits tax compliance inventory write-offs beyond the provision made at the year services and certain audit-related services within defined end is very low, reflecting the operating procedures of the monetary limits.
All other permitted non-audit services are Group and the commercial relationships in place with its considered on a case by case basis by the Chair of the Audit supplier partners and, as such, management continues to Committee on behalf of the Committee.
The full non-audit believe that the systematic application provides a result which services policy is available in the Board Committees section is consistent with its judgement on the provision required.
The Audit Committee agrees with this assessment and considered, as part of this assessment, the potential impact At each meeting, the Audit Committee received a report on all of a move to a more global operating model and the changing non-audit services provided and the estimated cost since the inventory profile for the Group.
The Audit Committee monitors these costs in the context of the audit fee for the year, to ensure that the potential to affect auditor independence and objectivity does not arise.
56 Premier Farnell Audit Committee Report continued 2.
Adjusted items and profit and loss treatment Reviewed the effectiveness of risk management In the first and second half the Group reported adjusting items.
and internal controls The details of these adjusted items are set out in note 2 of the One of the Boards key responsibilities is to satisfy itself that financial statements.
Management believe that this presentation management maintains a system of internal control which is consistent with the fair, balanced and understandable provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal requirement and, as such, have presented these items in financial controls and compliance with law and regulation.
The Audit Committee agree with this assessment.
The Boards consideration of the materiality of financial and other risks to the Groups business and reputation ensures that 3.
Tax accounting appropriate controls are in place.
Consideration is also given to The Audit Committee has reviewed the tax position of the the relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
Group with both management and the auditor.
The time A full overview of the Groups principal risks, uncertainties and lag between the Companys financial statements and the opportunities can be found on pages 24 and 25 of the finalisation of tax matters inevitably requires management StrategicReport.
The provision made reflects the latest view of the anticipated outcome, as well as the best estimate of the Assurance probable outcome, following filing of the tax returns for the On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the relevant financial periods.
effectiveness of: the Groups systems of internal control, primarily through 4.
Going concern approving the internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, The Audit Committee has considered the Going Concern reviews of the financial controls for financial reporting of the basis assumed within the financial statements.
The underlying annual, preliminary and half yearly financial statements and assumptions, the reasonableness of those assumptions and a review of the nature, scope and reports of external audit: the comparison of those assumptions versus previous years the management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk were all considered as part of the Going Concern review.
In assessment activity and internal audit reports on the addition, this review encompasses a sensitivity analysis to process: and exchange rate fluctuations, among other risks, as well as ranges of potential outcomes versus planned budgetary any action taken to manage critical risks or to remedy any performance.
In forming its view, the Committee considered control failings or weaknesses identified, ensuring these are the range of potential actions available to the Group to managed through to closure.
improve the cash generation over the coming period.
This included an assessment of the robustness of working capital The Audit Committee has completed its review of the improvement plans, scale of planned capital expenditure and, effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control more broadly, the efficiency of the Groups balance sheet.
for the year under review, which is in compliance with the The year-end position for net debt as well as known funding Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the FRC.
facilities at year end also impacts this assessment.
The It confirms that the necessary action plans to remedy identified Committee agrees with these assumptions and the adoption weaknesses in internal control are in place and have been of the Going Concern basis for the preparation of the throughout the year.
Where appropriate, the Board also financial statements.
ensures that necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy or mitigate significant failings or weaknesses Although there has been no change in the significant identified from the review of effectiveness of internal controls.
accounting issues affecting the Group this year compared The Audit Committee confirms that no significant failings or to the prior year, the Committee reviewed other areas of judgement as part of its normal review process.
The Committee is satisfied with the judgements in these areas and that sufficient audit work has been undertaken to support managements position in other areas of the financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 57 weaknesses were identified as part of the review process.
reasonable assurance that transactions have been recorded The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and and presented accurately.
Finance officers of subsidiary consolidation processes are designed under the supervision businesses of the Group are required to certify that the of the Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance financial information they have provided as part of the annual regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the consolidation process has been properly prepared and preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published reviewed in accordance with instructions from the Group financial statements for external reporting purposes in Finance Department.
Management regularly conducts reviews of the internal controls Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over in place in respect of the processes of preparing consolidated financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance and financial information and financial reporting.
During the year may not prevent or detect all misstatements whether caused ended 1 February 2015, there were no changes to the internal by error or fraud.
The Groups internal controls over financial controls over these processes that have affected, or are reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial reasonably likely to materially affect the level of assurance information include policies and procedures that provide provided over the reliability of the financial statements.
Risk management and internal control system features Risk management system Internal control system As well as the risks that management identify through the ongoing The internal controls which provide assurance to the Committee of processes of reporting and performance analysis, the Audit Committee effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and has additional risk identification processes, which include: compliance with law and regulation include: Risk and control process for identifying, evaluating and managing Formal authorisation process for investments major business risks.
Coordinated by the Head of Internal Audit An organisational structure with clearly defined authorities for financial Internal and external audit reports which comment on controls management and maintenance of financial controls to manage identified risks and identify new ones The Code of Conduct which outlines the expected standards of A confidential whistle-blowing helpline and an email address business compliance and behaviour.
This Code is a formal part of available for employees to contact the CEO in confidence the employee induction process A quarterly compilation of all contingent liabilities identified by the The anti-bribery and corruption AB&C policies and procedures and business.
The report is reviewed by the Disclosure Committee and dedicated employee email then by the Audit Committee The comprehensive financial review cycle where the annual budget is The Tax and Treasury Committee which identifies and manages approved by the Board and monthly variances are reviewed against the Groups risks for tax and treasury and provides implementation detailed financial and operating plans updates to the Audit Committee The Disclosure Committee where senior management review and sign off business unit internal controls, including financial, compliance and operational controls A process of internal control self-assessment coordinated by the Internal Audit team The statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts is on pages 60 and 61 of the Directors Report.
