40 Premier Farnell Corporate Governance Report Val Gooding, CBE As Laurence outlined in the Strategic Chairman Report, we have begun our transformation to become the global destination for electronics customers.
During the year we made investments to support this evolution, including acquiring AVID Technologies and completing the rollout globally of our new web platform.
We also commenced the process to transform our regional element14 businesses to one global business, a move that will deliver a more efficient and effective organisational structure.
The Board has been actively involved in overseeing this transformation, developing the Groups strategy and assessing the Groups performance.
The 2014 15 financial TheGroups financial progress this year year has been a against its key performance indicators challenging period for Premier reflected the transitional nature of the past year.
The focus on strategic priorities Farnell but one in which we to deliver growth, reduce costs and took steps to position the optimise performance gives the Board Company for improved future confidence that the Company will deliver financial performance.
improved performance in the future.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 41 The Board has also undergone a number personnel and find out more about of significant changes during the year.
market conditions and culture and the First, in its composition, as valued Board pressing issues for the business on the members have come to the end of their ground.
Particular highlights from the tenure and new talent has been brought in.
year include Paul Withers spending time Secondly, through actions taken to enhance with staff at our distribution centre in how the Board can best fulfil its role of Leeds and Andrew Dougal visiting the providing leadership within a framework new Chicago offices where he received of prudent and effective controls.
positive feedback from employees about the improved working environment there.
The new element14 operating model In October 2014 I had the opportunity to The executive team began discussing go to our business in India where I was the next stage of Premier Farnells impressed with the dedication and evolution during the first half of the enthusiasm of our team and encouraged financial year.
As Laurence outlined in by the results they are achieving.
The his CEO statement page 2, the Board quality of our people is a regular theme in is confident that moving the element14 the updates provided by Board members business to a global model where after each visit.
duplication is removed and a consistent strategy can be executed world-wide On behalf of the Board, I would like to is the right approach to deliver the next thank each of Premier Farnells 4,500 phase of Premier Farnells journey.
Led employees globally for all their hard by the executive team, the operational work and commitment.
structure will move away from regional delivery to one in which defined global Board developments functions concentrate on Group-wide The Boards evolution is consistent with 1 implementation to improve efficiencies the UK Governance Code the Code, and provide a clear and cohesive and its own performance evaluation.
During the financial year As the Groups strategic transformation 2015 16, the Board will continue to gains pace, the Board calendar has been monitor carefully the implementation expanded to include an additional Board of the operating model to ensure that meeting in each year.
The Board also held it is capable of delivering the expected an offsite strategy day in June 2014, set levels of performance and long-term to be an annual event.
We focused on value for shareholders.
market trends, the competitive landscape and stakeholder expectations as well Premier Farnell employees as the Groups proposed strategy and Change brings opportunity but also early proposals for the element14 uncertainty.
For some, this engenders business reorganisation.
excitement but in others discomfort.
As the Group drives forward in its A joint Board and Digital Advisory Board transformation, I continue to be meeting took place in October 2014. sincerely impressed by the commitment, Attended by all members of both professionalism and passion of Premier Boards, the meeting provided a unique Farnells employees, many of whom I forum in which the Digital Advisory and other members of the Board have Board members provided updates had the pleasure to meet personally on the latest trends in the digital during our time spent in the business.
environment and discussed with These Board visits are highly appreciated the Board where growth and market by the Non-Executives, giving them opportunities could be embraced.
the chance to spend time with local 1 Known as the Code in this report.
For reference, a copy of the Code can be found on the FRC website https: www.
42 Premier Farnell Corporate Governance Report continued Board appointments After serving as a Non-Executive During the year several changes were Director for nine years, Andrew Dougal made to the composition of the Board will also be standing down from the and another is anticipated in the year Board immediately after the Annual ahead.
We welcomed one new Director General Meeting in June 2015.
Andrew to the Board while one of our longhas been a substantial contributor to standing and highly valued Board the Board throughout his tenure.
He members stepped down as an and Dennis will be greatly missed and independent Non-Executive Director we thank them for their dedication and and another will step down following commitment and wish both every success for the future.
Risk and governance On 1 November 2014 Gary Hughes Good leadership and effective joined us as a Non-Executive Director.
governance are critical at all times, Gary was appointed because of his but never more so than during times of considerable business experience and change.
The Board, under my direction, his financial expertise.
A qualified and is responsible for delivering the longexperienced chartered accountant, with term success of the Company.
It has a background in corporate finance, Gary overseen the development of the also has the credentials required to take Companys new operating model and on the appointment of chairing the Audit will maintain this oversight of its Committee, following Dennis Millards implementation throughout 2015 16, retirement from the Board at the end ensuring that the Company remains of January 2015. vigilant against risk.
Dennis Millard joined the Board as a The effectiveness of the Board, its Non-Executive Director in 2007 and composition and skills continue to be during his time with the Board acted as regularly reviewed in order to meet these the Groups Senior Independent Director demands.
Premier Farnell is committed and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
to good corporate governance across With his financial expertise and wealth of the Group and the Board is accountable experience, Dennis has been invaluable for this.
The report which follows as a member of the Premier Farnell Board.
describes how, throughout the year ended 1 February 2015, the Group Paul Withers has significant experience complied with the principles and with the Board and considerable provisions of the Code.
knowledge of the Company and, as Chair of our Remuneration Committee, There is more on the Companys has forged good working relationships principal risks on pages 24 and 25 with a number of the Groups and its system of internal controls shareholders.
He was accordingly on pages 56 and 57. nominated and agreed to take on the role of Senior Independent Director from 1 February 2015.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 43 Relations with shareholders 2015 16 Priority As Chairman, it is my responsibility to The Boards priority in 2015 16 is to ensure the Board is accessible to our focus on improving the Companys major shareholders and aware of any financial performance by achieving concerns they may have.
In this I am better sales growth, reducing costs and supported by the significant work of transforming our business through the the Senior Independent Director and global reorganisation of element14.
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on matters relating to Val Gooding, CBE executive remuneration and the regular Chairman dialogue that Laurence and Mark have with our institutional shareholders.
During the financial year 2014 15, Paul Withers and I held individual meetings, in person and by phone, with shareholders at which issues such as strategy, succession planning and executive remuneration were discussed.
We undertook extensive consultation on certain of our proposals on executive remuneration which are explored in more detail in the Remuneration Report on pages 63 and 64.
The Company also held a capital markets day in October 2014 where investors were updated on our strategy.
I consider this engagement with our shareholders as essential.
By maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders, we ensure that our objectives are understood and receive feedback on our strategy, performance and governance.
It also enables the shareholders to build confidence in the Boards ability to oversee the implementation of the strategy and to know with whom to raise any concerns they might have.
The feedback we have received from shareholders during the year under review reflects that the year has been one of challenge but that we have started on a journey which presents significant opportunity to the Company.
I look forward to continuing this dialogue in 2015 16 at our AGM, as well as in other forums.
