52 Premier Farnell Nominations Committee Report Nominations Committee Report Val Gooding Nominations Committee Chairman Who else is on the Committee?
- Andrew Dougal Key objective: - Laurence Bain To lead a formal, rigorous and transparent process - Gary Hughes from 1 February 2015 for the appointment of new Directors to the Board - Dennis Millard to 31 January 2015 and its Committees.
- Thomas Reddin - Peter Ventress from 17 March 2015 Responsibilities: - Paul Withers To review the composition of the Board including its balance of skills and experience Committee Secretary: Steven Webb To lead the process for Board appointments and recommend the appointment of new Directors As recommended by the Code, the Committee comprises To review the re-appointment of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer is also a permanent member.
While only members of the Committee have the right to To make recommendations on the composition attend meetings, the Chief People Officer and external of the Boards Committees advisors may also be invited to contribute on specified To consider succession for senior executive positions agenda items.
If the Committee is convened to discuss the Board Chairmans position, the Senior Independent Director chairs the meeting.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Governance section of our website at www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 53 What did the Committee do during the year Succession planning Succession planning is a key remit of the Committee and underreview?
is reviewed regularly for the Board as a whole, the Board The Committee meets when necessary and was convened Committees and the wider leadership of the organisation.
twice during the financial year to consider Board, Committee Membership of the Board and Committees was considered and Executive appointments, Directors tenure, succession as part of the annual evaluation and re-election process and Board composition.
Directors re-appointment and re-election Laurence Bain presents annually to the Board on succession In 2014, the Committee met to consider the re-appointment planning for the executive team, ensuring that there is a pipeline of Andrew Dougal, Paul Withers and Dennis Millard as of prospective candidates for all senior executive positions.
Non-Executive Directors and Val Gooding as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board.
Following a rigorous review, the Appointment of Gary Hughes Committee recommended to the Board that all three During the year the Nominations Committee recommended Non-Executive Directors each be reappointed for a term the appointment of Gary Hughes as an additional Nonof one year from June 2014, and that the Chairman of the 1 Executive Director.
Before starting the search for a new Board be reappointed for an additional three year term.
member, the Nominations Committee evaluated the desired Dennis Millard has since retired and Andrew Dougal qualities for the appointment by reviewing the balance of announced his intention to retire at the end of his current term.
skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board.
Given Dennis Millards stated intention to retire in January All Directors will continue to be considered for annual 2015, it was agreed that candidates must have the requisite re-election or appointment at every AGM provided they experience including recent and relevant financial experience demonstrate commitment and effective performance.
necessary to chair the Audit Committee.
Review of diversity Catalyst Advisors an agency with no connection to the The Nominations Committee recognises the benefits to the Company was appointed to help with the search and put Group of diversity in the workforce and in the composition forward candidates for interview by Val Gooding and Laurence of the Board itself.
It is the Companys policy whether it be Bain.
Candidates also had the opportunity to meet Paul Withers at employee or Board level to make all appointments based and other Board members.
From the shortlist of interviewed on the best candidate for the role regardless of gender or candidates, Gary Hughes was chosen for appointment due other diversity.
In recognition of the benefit of greater female to his extensive business and broad non-executive board representation at all levels, the Group targets women to make experience and for his financial acumen.
Gary formally joined up 30% of management grade employees.
Women currently the Board on 1 November 2014 and attended his first face to make up 24% of senior management positions and 8% of the face Board meeting in December2014.
senior executive team, while female membership of the Board stands at 13%.
The proportion of women at both the executive team and Board level is below target and will continue to be a factor in future appointments.
There is further information on the Companys policy and practices on diversity on page 38 of the Strategic Report.
1 Subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting in each year.
