54 Corporate governance statement continued Leadership Roles and responsibilities Board objectives The Board of Directors: The overarching remit of the Board is to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance in accordance with the Code: is responsible for overseeing the Executive Directors management of operations and, in this capacity, determines to ensure the continuing evolution and implementation of the Groups strategic and investment policies: the Groups strategy to deliver value to all stakeholders: customers, employees and shareholders: monitors the performance of the Groups senior management team and organises its business to have regular interaction to develop challenging objectives for the business and monitor with key members of senior management: and management performance against those goals: is responsible for overseeing the management of the business to provide a framework of effective controls to assess and of the Group.
Its powers are subject to the Articles of manage risks, with clear expectations of conduct to the Association and any applicable legislation and regulation.
highest standards of ethics: to provide support and constructive challenges to the CEO to promote the Groups success: to demonstrate leadership in management systems around health, safety and environment: and to manage succession planning for the Board and the Groups executive management.
The Board The Board represents the interests of both QinetiQ and its shareholders.
It comprises a range of experience and expertise required to meet the challenges facing the Group.
The Non-executive Directors bring independent judgment on key issues affecting the Group and its business operations, including strategy, performance, resources including key appointments and standards of conduct.
Directors receive ongoing training about the Company and their duties.
Operation Matters reserved to the Board The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, The Board has a clearly articulated set of matters which are which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the specifically reserved to it for consideration.
Board and its Committees during the annual business cycle.
These include: This includes the level of delegated authorities both financial reviewing and approving the annual budgets: and non-financial available to Executive Directors and other layers of management in the business, QinetiQs business ethics, risk raising indebtedness: management, and health, safety and environmental processes.
granting security over Group assets: The Board devotes one entire meeting each year to consider approving Group strategy and the corporate plan: strategy and planning issues that have an impact on the Group, from which the corporate plan is generated.
It is also regularly approving the Annual and Interim Report and Accounts: kept up to date on strategic issues throughout the year.
approving significant investment, bid, acquisition and divestment transactions: approving HR policies including pension arrangements : reviewing material litigation: and monitoring the overall system of internal control, including risk management.
P55 See Operation of the Board for more information QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 55 Operation of the Board Composition of the Board For each meeting, the Board receives a written report from the At the date of this report, the Board has eight members: the CEO and CFO, together with a separate report on investor relations Non-executive Chairman: five other Non-executive Directors: which is prepared in consultation with QinetiQs brokers, and a and two Executive Directors the CEO and the CFO.
Their names report produced by the Company Secretary on key legal and and biographical details can be found on pages 58 to 59. regulatory issues that affect the Group.
The CEOs and CFOs report The following changes in Board membership took place during the year: addresses the key strategic initiatives which have had an impact on the Group since the previous Board meeting, with particular focus Ian Mason was appointed as a Non-executive Director on on the progress of each of the businesses.
Other key areas of focus 3 June 2014. include health, safety and environmental matters: employee and Noreen Doyle retired as a Non-executive Director on 22 July organisational issues: corporate responsibility: the status of key 2014, having served on the Board for more than eight years.
account management customer relationship initiatives: the pipeline Leo Quinn resigned as an Executive Director and Chief Executive of potential bids, acquisitions, disposals and investments: and the Officer on 31 December 2014. post-acquisition performance of recently acquired businesses.
David Mellors was appointed as interim Chief Executive Officer The Board also receives updates from key functional areas on an from 1 January 2015 until 26 April 2015. as needed basis, on issues such as human resources, treasury, corporate The following change took place after the year end: responsibility, real estate, security, trade controls and pensions.
Steve Wadey was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Key issues considered by the Board in the past year include: Executive Officer on 27 April 2015. a the impact of the disposal of the US Services division: Attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees b the strategy for the Group as a whole: and 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015 Committee c succession planning.
Risk Members Board Audit Nominations Remuneration & CSR Further details are set out on the next page.
Mark Elliott 7 7 4 4 6 6 4 4 Committees Admiral QinetiQ operates by way of two key Executive Committees and five Sir James principal Board Committees.
Details can be found on page 57.
Noreen Doyle was unable to attend the July meetings due to a prior engagement.
David Mellors was interim CEO during the period from 1 January 2015 to 26 April 2015 and attended meetings in that capacity where appropriate.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56 Corporate governance statement continued Key issues covered by the Board during the past year include: a Disposal of the US Services business The US Services business disposal was completed in May 2014. of progress with the new Proxy arrangement, an evaluation of the The retained US business was split into those areas where no business and its strategy, and measurement against its objectives.
Proxy arrangement was necessary, and the US Global Products During the year, a new president was appointed to drive forward business where a new Proxy arrangement was required as the development of the business, which will remain an important detailed on page 65.
Since then the Board has received updates, subject of the Boards focus.
via the regular Executive Directors Report to the Board and by presentations from the US Global Products executive team, b Group strategy Alongside the process for the setting and review of Group strategy, During the year, the Board received updates on progress against the Board also commissioned an external report to identify strategy by way of regular presentations from the Group Strategy shareholder perspectives and observations on the Companys Director.
The presentations included a measurement of progress stated strategy and investment proposition.
The report was tabled against milestones objectives and a linkage between strategy and at a Board meeting and it was noted that, amongst other things, daily activity.
In October, the Board held its annual two-day strategy shareholders general observations were that the Company had meeting at an off-site location where the strategy for the Group as been transformed into a more focused and manageable business a whole was reviewed.
In advance of the meeting, the Board had with net cash on its balance sheet, there was strong support for given guidance to the Group Strategy Director on subject areas it management and a well understood strategy.
The output from the would like to see covered at the strategy meeting.
As in the previous report in terms of growth has been used to inform the Companys year, the Managing Directors from each business and the leaders strategic thinking in respect of value creation and growth.
of key corporate functions attended the two-day meeting and gave presentations on the strategy for their respective business areas.
The Board was able to meet both formally and informally with business leaders, to understand the key drivers and risks including their mitigation for their business areas.
Following the meeting, the strategic business plans were updated and form the basis for regular progress reports to the Board by the Group Strategy Director.
c Succession planning Succession planning, both at Executive and Non-executive level, As regards talent management within the wider Group, at the remains a key focus for the Board.
In July 2014 the Board highlighted September Board meeting, the Director of Capability updated the succession planning as one of its top priorities for the year.
The Board on the activities being taken in respect of equality, diversity Board stated its objective of reviewing comprehensive succession and inclusion.
The Board approved the policy and noted the means plans for the top 12 to 15 executive positions with a focus on of measuring progress by way of a scorecard approach.
At the improving the talent pipeline and diversity.
In addition, the Board October strategy meeting, the Director of Capability gave a stated that it will continue to focus on the succession plans for the presentation on enhancing human capability within the Group, Non-executive Directors, including both training and refreshment, including to protect and secure suitably qualified and experienced to ensure they align Board skills with the needs of the strategy.
personnel, in particular to support the business strategy and to continue to develop the Companys culture, with improved diversity, Membership of the Board was refreshed during the year, with the an emphasis on unlocking the potential of the workforce and the appointment of Ian Mason as a Non-executive Director in June 2014 encouragement of innovation.
and the search and appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer which was completed with the appointment of Steve Wadey, who Further details on diversity can be found in the Responsible joined the Board in April 2015.
Further details can be found in the business section on pages 24 to 29. report of the Nominations Committee on pages 62 to 63.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 57 The Board and its Committees Board The Board of Directors is responsible for the governance of the Company and Where a Committee is not attended by the full Board, details of the key issues for agreeing its strategy and monitoring its progress.
Details of the Directors discussed, and decisions taken, are circulated to all members of the Board after at the date of this report can be found on page 55. the relevant Committee meeting.
The Board has established five principal Committees: the Audit Committee, A report in respect of each of these Committees is contained on pages 62 the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Risk & CSR to 74.
The details of each Committee members attendance at Committee Committee and the Security Committee.
Each operates within written meetings are set out in the table contained within each Committee report.
terms of reference approved by the Board.
The full terms of reference Details of the Groups reward and remuneration policies and payments, can be found in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at together with the report of the Remuneration Committee, can be found in www.
the Directors remuneration report on pages 72 to 85 which is incorporated Given the size of the Board, and in the interests of full Board participation into this corporate governance statement by reference.
and transparency, the Board maintains a policy of all-Director membership of Committees, other than where prohibited by the Code, statutory or Security Committee requirements.
Board Committees Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Security Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Committees Operating Committee Governance Committee Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups activities, Responsible for oversight of the risk management process and its with the exception of QinetiQs US Global Products business which is implementation by the divisions.
It reports via the Chief Executive managed through the Proxy Board, as described in the section on page Officer to the Board and supports the Board Committees.
65 headed Management and control of US subsidiaries.
It reports via Matters covered during the year included non-financial corporate the Chief Executive Officer to the Board.
objectives, targets and key performance indicators, approval of Its specific focus during the year continued to be on the Operating Framework policy documents and the review of business achievement of the Groups strategic goals in respect of risk registers and the Group Risk Register.
During the year the Committee met on a quarterly basis.
During the year the Operating Committee met on a monthly basis, and received weekly updates on key operational issues by way of pre-scheduled conference calls.
Membership of the Executive Committees during the year Chief Executive Officer Chief Technology Officer Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary & Group General Counsel UK Divisional Managing Directors Group Strategy Director Business Development Director Investor Relations and Communications Director Capability Director Operations and Shared Services Director QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
