48 Corporate governance statement Focus on governance Good governance is pivotal to the relationship of trust between the Mark Elliott Company, its customers, its employees and other key stakeholders.
Non-executive Chairman Effective stewardship and risk management are key to the markets in which QinetiQ operates and provide the stability necessary to enable the Group to grow its business and create future success.
Succession planning continued to be a key priority for the Board.
Following the departure of Colin Balmer and the appointment of Susan Searle during the 2014 financial year, further changes took place with the appointment of Ian Mason as an additional Non-executive Director in June 2014 and the retirement of Noreen Doyle as a Non-executive Director in July 2014, having completed nearly nine years on the Board.
Leo Quinn resigned as Chief Executive Officer with effect from December 2014 and Steve Wadey was appointed as the new Chief Executive Officer with effect from April 2015.
This process of change and renewal is critical as the Group moves from the period of transformation under Leo Quinn In this section: to a greater focus on growth.
I am delighted to be working with Compliance 49 Steve Wadey as we begin this new phase in QinetiQs development.
At the executive level, the Operating Committee continued to be Relations with shareholders 52 responsible for the day to day management of the Groups activities Leadership 54 other than for the part of the US business that is subject to a Roles and responsibilities 54 Proxy agreement and the Governance Committee continued to Board objectives 54 be responsible for overseeing risk management.
Both committees Composition of the Board 55 report to the Board via the Chief Executive Officer.
At the annual Board meetings and attendance 55 Board strategy meeting in October, members of the Board had an Committees 55 opportunity to meet with and challenge business leaders on their business plans and strategy.
Directors biographies 58 Effectiveness 60 Following completion of the sale of the US Services business in May Director training and development 60 2014 and the appointment of the new Proxy Board to manage that Independence of Non-executive Directors 60 element of the retained US business that is required to be insulated Performance of the Board 60 from foreign ownership, control or influence as detailed on page 65, work began in evaluating the retained US business.
An excellent Report of the Nominations Committee 62 working relationship has been established with the new Proxy Board Accountability 63 and the Proxy Board Chairman, Len Moodispaw, has joined the UK Identification and review of risks 63 Board on occasion.
The internal audit function continues to work Internal control 64 closely with US management to gain assurance that an effective Management and control of US subsidiaries 65 control environment is in place.
During the year ended 31 March 2015 the Board oversaw significant Report of the Audit Committee 66 change within the Group, both in terms of personnel and in terms Report of the Risk & CSR Committee 70 of its structure.
The governance arrangements ensured business as usual throughout this period and continue to provide a stable Report of the Security Committee 71 environment for the new Chief Executive Officer.
Directors remuneration report 72 Report of the Remuneration Committee 72 Remuneration Policy Summary 76 Mark Elliott Annual Report on Remuneration 78 Non-executive Chairman Directors report 86 21 May 2015 Directors responsibility statement 89 Independent auditors report 90 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 49 Compliance statement Effective governance QinetiQ is subject to the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate An effective Board sets the tone, influencing culture and behaviours Governance Code the Code as currently in effect.
The Code through its decisions and leadership.
To be effective, a Board should and associated guidance are publicly available on the Corporate comprise experienced individuals with a range of background and Governance page of the Financial Reporting Councils website, experience, who are independent in character and judgment.
With the exception of the external evaluation of the Board, as detailed below, the Board considers that QinetiQ has complied Board skills with all relevant Provisions of the Code throughout the last financial year.
This statement provides details of the way in which the 8 2015 Number of Directors 7 Main Principles of the Code have been applied during that year.
Defence 6 6 Engineering 3 External evaluation of the Board Code Provision B.
6.2. states that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 3 Science 4 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
2 An external evaluation of the Board would have taken place during 1 the year under review, however, pending the appointment of the 0 new Chief Executive Officer, the Board decided to defer the external evaluation process by one year, and to proceed with an externally provided online questionnaire-based review tool in 2015, to allow Board independence time for the new Chief Executive Officer to take up his role.
Further 2015 % details of the review can be found in the Effectiveness section on Non-independent 37.5 page 60.
Independent 62.5 An overview of the Groups corporate governance arrangements can be found on the QinetiQ website at: www.
Board composition 2015 % Non-executive Chairman 12.5 Non-executive Directors 62.5 Executive Directors 25 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50 Corporate governance statement continued Overview of the application of the Main Principles of the Code A.
Effectiveness pages 60 to 63 A1 The Role of the Board B1 The Composition of the Board The Board met seven times during the year.
There is a schedule At least half the Board excluding the Chairman comprises of matters reserved to the Board and the Board has a set of independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers the objectives and responsibilities.
Details of the Board membership overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard and their attendance at Board and Committee meetings are to the experience and skills the Directors bring to their duties.
included in this Annual Report on page 55.
B2 Appointments to the Board A2 Division of Responsibilities The Nominations Committee oversees appointments to the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are not exercised by the Board, its balance of skills and experience and the succession same individual and their separate responsibilities are established.
The report of the Nominations Committee can be found on page 62.
A3 The Chairman The Chairman, working with the Company Secretary, sets the B3 Time Commitment agenda for Board meetings and encourages an open and The anticipated time commitment required in respect of constructive debate.
the non-executive role is communicated in the appointment process.
The Board is notified of changes to other significant A4 Non-executive Directors commitments and the Chairman consulted where appropriate.
The Non-executive Directors provide constructive challenge to management.
The Board has appointed a Senior Independent B4 Director Training and Development Non-executive Director.
Regular meetings are held with the Chairman All Directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board.
and Non-executive Directors without the executives present.
Site visits and training are made available to enable Directors to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
B5 Information and Support for Directors The Chairman, working in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
B6 Performance evaluation An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors is carried out annually.
B7 Re-election of Directors The Company requires each serving member of the Board to be put forward for election or re-election on an annual basis at each Annual General Meeting.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 51 C. Accountability pages 63 to 71 D. Remuneration pages 72 to 85 C1 Financial and Business Reporting D1 Level and Components of Remuneration The Board presents its results at the full year and the half year The Board has established a Remuneration Committee with and provides quarterly updates to the market.
The Annual Report formal terms of reference.
It is responsible for ensuring that levels and Accounts contains a Strategic report which provides an of remuneration are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate explanation of the business model and the strategy for delivering Directors of sufficient quality and that any performance related the objectives of the Company.
A going concern statement is elements are relevant, stretching and designed to promote the included on page 88, responsibility statements can be found long-term success of the Company.
on pages 88 to 89, and details of the process for ensuring that D2 Developing Remuneration Policy and Packages the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable can be The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on found on page 89.
There is also a statement in the auditors pages 72 to 74 and provides details of, or links to, the procedure for report on page 92 about their reporting responsibilities.
setting policy on Executive Director remuneration.
The Committee C2 Risk Management and Internal Control also recommends and monitors the level and structure of The risk management process and the system of internal control remuneration for senior management.
necessary to manage risks are overseen by the Audit Committee financial risks and the Risk & CSR Committee non-financial risks.
A report on specific risk review activity undertaken during the E. Relations with shareholders pages 52 to 53 year by those committees, together with the current risk registers, was presented by the CEO to the Board at its March meeting.
E1 Dialogue with Shareholders The Strategic report contains on pages 30 to 37 details of risk The Chairman ensures that all Directors are made aware of major management and the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, shareholder issues and concerns, by way of reports from the their impact and how they are managed.
Details of risk management Executive Directors at Board meetings, attendance at key financial and internal control processes can be found on pages 63 to 65. calendar events and by making themselves available to meet C3 Audit Committee and Auditors shareholders as required.
The Board has established an Audit Committee comprising at E2 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting least three independent Non-executive Directors, with formal All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting terms of reference.
It oversees the financial risk management and to ask questions.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nominations, and internal controls process, the effectiveness of internal audit Remuneration, Risk & CSR and Security Committees attend the activities, the external auditors independence and objectivity meeting and are available to answer any questions on the work and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of the of the committees.
reappointment of the external auditor and their remuneration.
The report of the Audit Committee can be found on pages 66 to 69.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
