28 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Corporate Governance The Board is committed to meeting the standards of good Professor Arnold is the Senior Independent Non-executive Corporate Governance as established by the Financial Director a position which he assumed in September 2014 Reporting Council from time to time.
In respect of the year after the retirement of his predecessor, Mr Steel and in this ended 31May 2015, the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code capacity he is available to Shareholders if they have concerns the Code applied to the Company.
The Code is publicly which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, available on the Financial Reporting Councils website Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve www.
or for which such contact is inappropriate.
This report, together with the Report on Directors Non-executive Directors may serve on the boards of other Remuneration in respect of remuneration matters, describes companies provided that this does not involve a conflict of how the Board applied the Code during the year under review.
interest and that the appointment does not restrict their ability to discharge their duties to the Company in any way.
Board evaluation As set out in the Report of the Directors, the Board has Composition and independence resolved to comply with the provisions of the Code and each The size of the Board allows individuals to communicate Director will seek re-election annually.
In view of the existence openly and to make a personal contribution through the of a group of controlling Shareholders see the Report exercise of their individual skills and experience.
As at the of the Directors on page 5, the election or re-election of date of this report, the Board of Directors has eight members independent Directors is subject to a dual Shareholder vote.
comprising the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, The Executive Directors service contracts and the letters two other Executive Directors and four other Non-executive setting out the terms of appointment of the Non-executive Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their Directors are available for inspection at the Companys biographical details are set out on pages 2 to 3.
During registered office during normal business hours and at the the year, James Steel retired from the Board as a Annual General Meeting.
Diversity The Non-executive Directors have been appointed for their The Company supports the Code provision that Boards should specific experience and expertise and are all considered to be consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when independent of management and free from any business or making appointments and is committed to ensuring diversity other relationship which could materially interfere with the not just at Board level but also across the Companys senior exercise of their independent judgment.
Mr Harvey is a management team, not least because it believes that business Non-executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc, which benefits from the widest range of perspectives and acts as insurance broker to the Company, but the level of fees backgrounds.
The Companys aim as regards the composition payable to Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc is not material and of the Board is that it should have a balance of experience, MrHarvey does not participate in any way in the provision skills and knowledge to enable each Director and the Board of services on which basis the Board is wholly satisfied that as a whole to discharge their duties effectively.
Whilst the it is appropriate to designate Mr Harvey as independent.
In Company agrees that it is entirely appropriate that it should addition, in order that his independence is not compromised, seek to have diversity on its Board, it does not consider that if at any time the Board or a Committee of the Board is this can be best achieved by establishing specific quotas and considering any matter concerning Jardine Lloyd Thompson targets and appointments will continue to be made based Plc, it has been agreed that Mr Harvey will withdraw from wholly on merit.
that meeting until such matters have been dealt with.
Further details on diversity within the business are set out in the Report of the Directors on page 6.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 29 Performance evaluation in good time prior to each Board meeting to enable Directors Effectiveness reviews of the Board and its committees are to give due consideration to all matters in advance of the carried out annually.
The 2015 review has been facilitated by meeting.
During the year, the Board has maintained an the Company Secretary who, in conjunction with the Chairman understanding of the views of major Shareholders through of the Board, prepared a detailed questionnaire relating to the periodic face to face meetings and briefings from the composition, governance and performance of the Board for Companys brokers.
The results of that exercise have been reviewed by the Chairman of the Board and of each The Board has adopted formal procedures for Directors to Board committee, discussed in a formal meeting and the take independent professional advice where necessary at the recommendations recorded and acted upon.
Companys expense and each Director has full access to the services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for The review process which was undertaken during the year ensuring that Board procedures and all applicable rules and concluded that all Directors continue to contribute effectively regulations are followed.
and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to carry out their duties.
The performance of the Non-executive The Board has an approved and documented schedule of Directors is evaluated separately by the Executive Directors.
matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the The Remuneration Committee reviews Executive Directors Groups strategy, annual budgets, material agreements and performance with guidance from the Chief Executive other major capital expenditure and acquisitions, the approval of than in respect of his own position.
financial arrangements, and the monitoring of performance, health, safety and environmental matters and risk management procedures.
Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic The Board has also adopted a formal induction process for development, monitoring its business objectives and Directors including visits to principal sites and meetings maintaining a system of effective corporate governance.
Training sessions have been organised during the year for the Board on matters considered Six formal meetings of the Board were scheduled during the relevant to the discharge of the Directors duties and Directors year and the Directors met on a number of further occasions may take additional training where necessary as part of their as necessary to consider specific matters arising and to review continuing development at the expense of the Company.
and develop the Companys corporate strategy.
The differing roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged and set out in terms of reference which have been adopted by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the Board and ensuring that it is supplied in a timely manner with sufficient information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Chief Executive is responsible for coordinating the running of the business and implementing Group strategy.
All Directors communicate with each other on a regular basis and have regular and ready access to members of the Groups management team.
Senior executives are invited to attend Board meetings to make presentations on specific matters or projects.
Board papers are prepared and issued to all Directors 30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating Committees of the Board the performance and determining specific remuneration The Board has established a number of standing committees packages for each Executive Director, the Chairman and the to which various matters are delegated according to Company Secretary.
With the exception of the Non-executive defined terms of reference.
The terms of reference of Chairman, the fees of the Non-executive Directors are the committees are available on the Companys website determined by the Executive Directors.
com and will also be available at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the principal standing Further details of the Committees responsibilities and committees of the Board are set out as follows: activities during the year are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 8 to 27.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly Audit Committee reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board Responsibilities of the Audit Committee and identifying and recommending appropriate candidates The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
During of the Board, the Groups accounting and financial policies, its the year ended 31May 2015, the Committee members disclosure practices, internal controls, internal audit and risk were MrHarvey Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, management.
It is responsible for overseeing all matters MsEdozien, Mr Kanellis, Mrs Owers, Mrs Silver and until his associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration and retirement from the Board on 23 September 2014 Mr Steel.
performance of the external auditor and for reviewing the The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
The Audit Committee also reviews and approves During the year, the Committee considered on behalf of the arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns Board the extent to which the re-election of Ms Edozien and about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting Mrs Owers at the expiry of their terms as Non-executive or other matters.
This is achieved through using a third party Directors should be recommended to the Board in which reporting facility which accommodates telephone, web and respect Ms Edozien and Mrs Owers did not participate in the email contacts and allows anonymity on request.
discussions regarding them and received regular reports from the Executive Directors and the Group HR Director on senior Composition of the Audit Committee executive talent management and succession planning The Audit Committee comprises Professor Arnold Committee throughout the Group.
During the year, the Committee also Chairman, Ms Edozien, Mrs Owers, Mrs Silver and until his considered the allocation of responsibilities in the light of the retirement from the Board on 23 September 2014 Mr Steel.
The Committee meets regularly with the external auditor.
Professor Arnold, a qualified chartered accountant, brings Remuneration Committee recent and relevant financial experience to the Audit The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and Committee.
The Company Secretary is secretary to recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Committee.
the Executive Directors and senior executives, which the Board as a whole is responsible for approving.
The Committee How the Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities members are Mrs Owers Committee Chair, Professor Arnold, In order to fulfil its responsibilities, the Committee meets Ms Edozien, Mrs Silver and until his retirement from the Board 4 times a year and receives and reviews presentations and on 23 September 2014 Mr Steel.
The Company Secretary is reports from Groups senior management, Group Internal secretary to the Committee.
Audit and the external auditors.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 31 Financial reporting and significant financial judgments 4.
Promotional trade spend and related accruals The Audit Committee assesses whether suitable accounting Trade spend is a significant expense for the Group, with the policies have been adopted and whether management has main judgment related to trade accruals, specifically the made appropriate estimates and judgments.
The Committee timing and extent to which temporary promotional activity has reviews accounting papers prepared by management which occurred.
The Committee has reviewed with management its provides details on the main financial reporting judgments.
assessment of the control environment and the findings of The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditors Internal Audit relating to trade spend.
It is the Committees on the half year and full year results which highlight any issues view that management operates an appropriate control arising from the work undertaken in respect of the half year environment which minimises the risks in this area.
review and year end audit.
The specific areas of audit and accounting risk reviewed by the Committee were: 5.
Acquisition accounting During the year the Group acquired five:am as well as 1.
The carrying value and recognition of goodwill and completing the stepped acquisition of Nutricima, previously intangible assets held as a joint venture.
Management have used judgement The Groups goodwill and intangible assets relate to our in fair valuing the assets purchased, the valuation of brands brands and are a material balance sheet item.
Annual and goodwill recognised and, in respect of the Nutricima impairment reviews are performed for goodwill and other acquisition, the fair value of consideration paid.
The intangible assets with indefinite lives which uses key Committee has reviewed papers prepared by management judgements including estimates of future business addressing the accounting treatment applied.
Based on this performance and cash generation, discount rates and review the Committee is comfortable that the accounting long-term growth rates.
The Committee has reviewed for these transactions is appropriate.
managements analysis and is comfortable with the key assumptions applied and managements conclusion that 6.
Exceptional items no impairment is required.
The Committee has considered the presentation of the Group Financial Statements, and, in particular, the 2.
Pensions including obligations and assumptions presentation of exceptional items and the items included within such measures.
The Committee has discussed this with The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are material to management and agreed that the presentation provides more its financial position.
The amounts shown in the balance sheet meaningful information to Shareholders about the underlying are highly sensitive to changes in key actuarial assumptions.
performance of the Group and the Committee agreed that the The Committee has reviewed and agreed the appropriateness items presented as exceptional items have been treated in and consistency of these assumptions with management.
accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Full disclosure of the pension scheme is provided in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, 3.
Direct tax provisions balanced and understandable and whether they provided the The global and transformational nature of the Group necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Groups means that it is periodically involved in structuring activities performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee e. g. acquisitions, disposals and reorganisations.
These were satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2015 Annual Report activities have complex tax related consequences in a number and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
of jurisdictions around the world where the approach of the tax authorities is particularly difficult to predict.
Where appropriate, provisions are made using managements tax judgment.
The Committee has reviewed the key judgments with management and considers the tax provisioning levels to be appropriate.
32 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Corporate Governance continued Auditor independence is considered to be the most appropriate to undertake Whilst the Audit Committee has not adopted a formal policy such work in the best interests of the Group.
Assignments in respect of the rotation of the external auditor, one of its with a value of 50,000 or more must be submitted to the principal duties is to make recommendations to the Board in Committee and activities which may be perceived to be relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
various in conflict with the role of the external auditor must be factors are taken into account by the Committee in this submitted to the Committee for approval prior to respect.
These include the quality of the reports provided engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
to the Audit Committee and the Board and the level of All assignments are monitored by the Committee.
understanding demonstrated of the Groups business.
This Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during year, the Committee considered, as usual, whether to retain the year for audit and other services are set out in note 4 PwC as auditor and concluded that, in view of the quality of to the financial statements.
the service provided, the cost effectiveness of the work carried out and the firms capacity to provide service across all Attendance at meetings of the Groups global operations, it was appropriate to retain The number of scheduled meetings of the Board excluding them.
The Committee last tendered the audit in 2008. such ad hoc meetings as were necessary during the year to address specific matters arising and of each of the Audit, The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year work by the auditor.
The auditor is permitted to provide ended 31May 2015, together with a record of the attendance non-audit services which are not, and are not perceived to of the current Directors who are their respective members, be, in conflict with auditor independence, providing it has the is detailed in the table below: skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work and Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Number Number Number Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number eligible of meetings eligible of meetings eligible of meetings eligible of meetings to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended Mr G A Kanellis 6 6 n a n a n a n a 3 3 Mr C G Davis 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a Mr B H Leigh 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a Mr R J Harvey 6 6 n a n a n a n a 3 3 Prof J A Arnold 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 Ms N Edozien 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 Mrs H Owers 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 Mr J T J Steel 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 Mrs C Silver 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 Note: n a indicates that the Director is not a member of the committee.
No Director participates in meetings when matters relating to him her are being discussed.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 33 Group Risk Committee Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee The Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, The CSR Committee is responsible for reviewing and assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group developing the Companys corporate strategy to ensure that and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken CSR is an integral part of the strategy and that the Groups to manage and mitigate those risks.
The risk areas which the social, environmental and economic activities are aligned.
Committee reviews include general business risk including risk The CSR Committee is also responsible for the development arising out of the external financial environment, product of policies on all key areas of CSR including the environment, safety risk, physical asset risk including factory, health and health and safety, consumer safety, business conduct and safety and environmental risks, IT and infrastructure risks.
ethics, employees and local community and charity.
Further At least once a year, the Board as a whole reviews any material details of the Committees terms of reference and activities risks facing the Group and the output of this review forms the during the year are set out in the Good 4 Business report on basis of the work undertaken by the Committee during pages 40 to 47 of the separate Strategic Review.
The CSR Committee comprises Ms Edozien Committee Chair, The Committee is responsible for developing and supporting Professor Arnold, Mr Davis, Mr Harvey, Mr Kanellis, Mr Leigh, the activities necessary to convert an approved framework of Mrs Owers, Mrs Silver and until his retirement from the Board risk limits and risk appetite policies into an effective plan for on 23 September 2014 Mr Steel.
The Company Secretary is implementation across the Group.
This is achieved by ongoing secretary to the CSR Committee.
The Committee reports review to develop and implement plans to eliminate, reduce formally to the Board after each meeting.
It has authority to or transfer risk where practicable.
The Committee is also obtain external advice as considered appropriate and the responsible for reviewing the risk management and control Board has resolved that it should be provided with sufficient process within the Group and encouraging and supporting resources to undertake fully its responsibilities.
two-way communications in respect of risks issues within the business and with external stakeholders including Remuneration Shareholders, suppliers and customers.
Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration.
The Group Risk Committee comprises Professor Arnold Committee Chairman, Mr Davis, Ms Edozien, Mr Harvey, Going concern Mr Kanellis, Mr Leigh, Mrs Owers, Mrs Silver and until his The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely retirement from the Board on 23 September 2014 Mr Steel.
to affect its future development, performance and position The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
It are set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of reports formally to the Board after each meeting.
It has the Group and liquidity position are described within the authority to obtain external advice as considered appropriate Financial Review which forms part of the Strategic Report.
and the Board has resolved that it should be provided with In addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes sufficient resources to undertake fully its responsibilities.
policies in relation to the Groups financial instruments and risk management and policies for managing credit risk, The Board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk liquidity, market risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk and management process and the performance of the Group interest rate risk.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
34 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Corporate Governance continued Internal control Relations with Shareholders The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal In its financial reporting to Shareholders the Board aims to control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is present a balanced and understandable assessment of the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Groups financial position and prospects.
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement The Company maintains a corporate website, or loss.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors and a The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for subscription e-mail service is available which enables access identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant to Company notifications and news releases.
risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31May 2015 and up to the date of the Annual Report and Financial The Company has periodic discussions with institutional Statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that Shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups it accords with the Turnbull guidance for Directors on the performance.
The Board is also kept informed of investors Code.
The process includes: views through regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and investor opinion feedback.
frequent communication between the Board and the Group Risk Committee and subsidiary management on all critical All Shareholders, including private investors, have an business issues: opportunity to present questions to the Board at the Annual regular visits to operating units by the Board, head office General Meeting and the Directors make themselves available management and internal audit: to meet informally with Shareholders after the meeting.
a detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting: regular review by the Board and Group Risk Committee of General meetings of Shareholders risk throughout the Group and the risk management The business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting processes in place: and of the Company is set out in the separate Notice of Annual taking necessary action to remedy any significant General Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report and weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness Financial Statements.
Resolutions put before Shareholders at of the internal control system.
the Annual General Meeting will usually include resolutions for the appointment of Directors, approval of the Report on Throughout the year, the Board has carried out assessments Directors remuneration, declaration of the final dividend and of internal control by considering documentation from the authorisation for the Board to allot and repurchase shares.
Executive Directors, Audit Committee and internal audit At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, for the first time voting function as well as taking into consideration events since on each resolution will be by way of a poll.
The internal controls extend to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated At each Annual General Meeting there is an update on the accounts.
The basis for the preparation of consolidated progress of the business over the last year and also on current accounts is as set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas for improvement which come to the attention of management and the board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and a defined fraud reporting and whistleblowing process which are issued to all employees within the Group.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 35 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Compliance statement accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain The Directors consider that the Company complied with the the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable provisions of the Code through the year ended 31May 2015 accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and up to the date of this report.
and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors remuneration comply Statement of Directors responsibilities with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are the Report on Directors remuneration and the Group and also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Parent Company financial statements in accordance with and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the applicable law and regulations.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the integrity of the Companys website, www.
Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation statements in accordance with International Financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European legislation in other jurisdictions.
Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and and applicable law.
In preparing the Group financial provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with a companys performance, business model and strategy.
IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they on pages 2 to 3, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Company for that period.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and select suitable accounting policies and then apply the position of the Group, together with a description them consistently: of the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
make judgements and accounting estimates which are reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures S P Plant disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company Company Secretary financial statements respectively: and 21 July 2015 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
36 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 Contents Financial Statements 37 Independent auditors report Group 44 Consolidated income statement 45 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 46 Consolidated balance sheet 47 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 48 Consolidated cash flow statement 49 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 88 Independent auditors report Company 90 Company balance sheet 91 Notes to the Company financial statements 97 Further statutory and other information 98 Five year financial record unaudited 99 Subsidiaries and joint ventures IBC Shareholder information and contacts
