DIrecTors reporTs goveRnance nomination committee RepoRt GOVERNANCE & NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT This year the governance & nomination committee recommended Safiatou Ba-NDaws appointment to the board which is the fourth year in succession that Randgold has refreshed its board of directors.
Christopher Coleman CHAIRMAN Norborne Kadri 1 Cole Jr Dagdelen Dear shareholders As chairman of the governance & nomination committee, I am pleased to present the 2015 governance & nomination committee report.
The principal role of the governance & nomination committee is to ensure the board has the necessary balance of skills, knowledge, independence and experience to enable it to be effective in discharging its responsibilities and to recommend any changes to the boards composition.
The committee also Jamil has oversight of all matters relating to corporate Kassum governance.
1 Mr Cole Jr will retire from the governance & nomination committee in November 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 215 Directors reports Governance & nomination committee report continued coMMITTee respoNsIBILITIes The governance & nomination committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available on the companys website at www.
The table below highlights the committees primary roles and responsibilities.
DUTIes, roLes AND respoNsIBILITIes oF THe GoVerNANce & NoMINATIoN coMMITTee n Developing and monitoring a process for evaluating the boards effectiveness and overseeing the companys code of conduct which can be found in the corporate governance section on the companys website.
n regularly reviewing and evaluating the structure, size and composition of the board and making recommendations to the board with regard to any changes.
n Identifying, evaluating and recommending, against objective criteria, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise, for board approval.
n Making recommendations to the board with regard to membership of the audit committee and remuneration committee and any other of the boards committees in consultation with the chairmen of those committees.
n Making recommendations on the constitution of the board to ensure there is an appropriate balance in terms of skills, knowledge, independence and experience.
n succession planning for directors and other senior managers of the company.
n Assessing a directors potential conflict of interest and making recommendations to the board.
n Making recommendations to the board concerning the role of senior independent director.
MeMBersHIp AND MeeTING ATTeNDANce The committee met four times during the year ended 31 December 2015.
The members of the governance & nomination committee and details of their respective attendance during the year are shown in the table below.
The committee regularly invites other directors of the company and the companys advisors to attend its meetings where the committee considers it appropriate.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Date appointed to 5 February 4 May 2 August 1 November MEMBER committee 2015 2015 2015 2015 cL coleman Chairman 3 November 2008 Np cole Jr 27 october 2007 K Dagdelen 30 october 2011 J Kassum 3 May 2014 coMMITTees reMUNerATIoN In accordance with the companys remuneration policy for more details please see page 190 of this annual report members of the governance & nomination committee received the fees set out in the table below in 2015.
These fees were paid in addition to the other fees paid and an award of shares made to each non-executive director as detailed on page 196 of this annual report.
FEES PAID MEMBER Fees c coleman received a fee of $20 000 for the 2015 financial year for being the chairman of the governance & Chairman nomination committee Np cole Jr received a fee of $10 000 for the 2015 financial year for services provided to the governance & nomination committee K Dagdelen received a fee of $10 000 for the 2015 financial year for services provided to the governance & nomination committee J Kassum received a fee of $10 000 for the 2015 financial year for services provided to the governance & nomination committee Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 216 pages 118 to 120 of this annual report for more MAIN AcTIVITIes IN 2015 information on the key senior managers development As mentioned, the committee met four times programme.
The committee receives regular reports during the year and, in addition to overseeing the on the training and development of employees across appointment process leading to the recommendation the group and in particular in relation to the senior and appointment of safiatou Ba-NDaw as a managers.
non-executive director, which is the fourth year in succession that the company has refreshed the board of directors, the committees principal BoArD AND coMMITTee AppoINTMeNTs activities included considering executive and nonMrs Ba-NDaw was appointed as a non-executive executive succession planning and the annual board director of the company with effect from 1 March effectiveness review.
Information relating to the appointment process for Mrs Ba-NDaw and her induction programme was given in last years annual report.
The governance & nomination committee reviewed the companys key policies during the year including The committee is responsible for nominating the gift, travel and entertainment policy, the antiappropriate individuals for membership of the boards corruption compliance policy and the code of committees to ensure that each committee has conduct and made recommendations for certain individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and amendments to be made to those policies to reflect experience.
In February 2016, on the committees market practice and changes to applicable legislation.
recommendation, the board approved the Also in 2015 the committee reviewed the boards appointment of Mrs Ba-NDaw as a member of the charter along with the terms of reference for each audit committee with effect from 2 May 2016. of the board committees, and where necessary, Mr Quinn was appointed chairman of the minor amendments were made.
The companys remuneration committee with effect from 4 May 2015 key policies, the boards charter and the terms of and Mr Kassum was appointed chairman of the audit reference for the boards committees are published in committee with effect from 4 May 2015. the corporate governance section of the companys website at www.
The governance & nomination committee has developed an in depth knowledge of the necessary During the year, the committee received updates from attributes a candidate should possess to be a director the company secretary on new corporate governance of the company.
When considering recommendations developments and legislative changes, and reporting for appointments to the board, the committee is in the UK and Us.
The committee also reviewed the mindful of the necessary skills, knowledge and independence of the non-executive directors and experience members of the board should have, to considered potential conflicts of interest.
support the strategic plans and the development of the business, together with the necessary time to The governance & nomination committee kept visit the companys operations in West and central the boards succession planning and personal Africa during the year.
The committee also takes into development of key senior managers across account as part of its deliberations the objective of the group under review during 2015 please see achieving and maintaining diversity on the board.
candidates are sought who demonstrate the necessary independence and experience together with knowledge of the countries where the company operates.
considering these criteria, GOvERNANCE & NOMINATION COMMITTEE: the governance & nomination committee leads the ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEE process of identifying potential candidates who meet TIME IN 2015 these requirements.
As a result, during the year the governance & nomination committee did not require the services of an external search agency 10% or undertake open advertising in search of potential board candidates including in relation to Mrs Ba- 10% NDaws appointment.
40% DIrecTors INDepeNDeNce 10% Following an evaluation of the performance of each director over the course of 2015, the board has confirmed that each of the non-executive directors 15% in office as at the date of this report continues to 15% demonstrate their independence in character and judgment and in carrying out their role in an objective manner.
As set out on page 163 of this annual report, Board and committee succession Dr Voltaire and Mr cole Jr will have each served on planning the board for ten years as of 1 May 2016.
Dr Voltaire Board charter and group policies will retire from the board with effect from 3 May 2016 Board and committee evaluation and Mr cole Jr intends to retire from the board in November 2016.
Independence and conflicts Director training BoArD INDUcTIoN AND DIrecTor other DeVeLopMeNT Any new director joining the board attends the companys induction and training programme which is ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 217 Directors reports Governance & nomination committee report continued developed by the company secretary in consultation LocAL JoBs with the companys legal and other professional The companys localisation policy which extends advisers.
In addition, in order to enhance the existing to the companys contractors operates at all of its directors skills and to ensure they are kept abreast of mines in West and central Africa and is centred firstly topical governance issues, the board is provided with on recruitment from the local community in the host other training on an ad hoc basis as the need arises, countries in which the company operates, followed in consultation with the chairman and the company by recruitment regionally then nationally.
In August 2015 the directors attended a the skills cannot be sourced in this way does the workshop on directors duties and responsibilities company recruit expatriates.
An active programme of of a listed company, and an industry update on Us mentoring helps recruits to develop in their roles.
The securities law and the Us Foreign corrupt practices company continues its policy of recruitment based on Act hosted by the companys legal advisers.
audit committee members also attended a workshop on trends in audit committee reporting, extractive In addition, the company continues its successful industry reporting and governance organised by the drive to develop local national managers and companys auditors.
The company recognises the executives.
Across the operating mines, 87% of importance of ongoing director training and therefore senior management positions heads of department ensures the necessary resources are available for and above were held by host country nationals.
LocAL TrAINING AND DeVeLopMeNT rANDGoLDs ApproAcH To DIVersITY randgold is an equal opportunity employer focused The governance & nomination committee believes on developing local skills through on-the-job practical in the benefits of diversity, including the need for training and in certain circumstances funding diversity in order to effectively represent shareholders particular university and other training courses at interests.
This diversity is not restricted to gender but higher education establishments.
In addition, the also includes geographic location, nationality, skills, companys existing mines are used as training and background, knowledge and experience in the mining development grounds for new staff joining other industry.
The boards policy remains that selection operations.
should be based on the best person for the role.
The company also partners with local businesses to The board currently consists of two executive assist with the training requirements of the companys directors and eight non-executive directors, with two contractors.
The company has implemented training of the eight non-executive directors being female.
programmes which develop many of its employees understanding of its business and this alignment has The diverse nature of the employees of the group benefited both the employees and the business.
is reflected by the board of the company which comprises seven nationalities covering four separate sUccessIoN pLANNING continents.
The governance & nomination committee periodically reviews the companys succession planning.
During The board recognises that diversity extends the year as in previous years the committee held beyond the boardroom and supports management discussions with the executive directors about in their efforts to build a diverse and well trained succession planning for their own positions.
The board supports the companys committee considered the job description of the ceo policy to recruit and advance women to positions of and the cFo and considered the natural resources senior management and elsewhere in the groups market, analysing where external candidates could operations.
The company has a number of women be sourced.
The committee, together with the in key executive and senior managerial positions executive directors, considered which members including within the companys mine management of the companys senior management had the teams.
necessary expertise to fulfil the roles of the executive ALL EMPLOyEES SENIOR MANAGEMENT GEOGRAPhICAL MIx INCLUDING hEADS OF DEPARTMENTS GEOGRAPhICAL MIx 8% 13% 92% 87% Host country nationals Host country nationals Non-host country nationals Non-host country nationals Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 218
