DIRECTORS REPORTS coRpoRate goveRnance RepoRt CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The board believes that a strong system of governance throughout the company is essential and that this aids effective decision making and supports the companys strategic objectives.
Dear shareholders GOVERNANCE & NOMINATION COMMITTEE I am pleased to set out the companys The governance & nomination committee corporate governance report for 2015. continued to focus on board succession and for the fourth successive year the The board believes that a strong system board appointed a new director.
In of governance throughout the company March 2015 Safiatou Ba NDaw joined the is essential in ensuring the business runs company as a non-executive director.
A good governance framework governance & nomination committee report coleman aids effective decision making and is set out on page 215 of this annual report.
supports the achievement of the companys cHairman objectives and strategy for the benefit of During the year Karl Voltaire stepped down shareholders and stakeholders alike.
as chairman of the audit committee, and Norb Cole Jr stepped down as chairman BOARD EVALUATION & of the remuneration committee.
Both have IMPROVEMENT remained members of those committees The board continuously reviews how it during the year as part of the companys can improve and develop.
At this years succession planning.
Karl Voltaire is to formal board and director evaluation review, retire from the board following the AGM in which I chaired, the directors analysed their May 2016 after 10 years as a non-executive own performance and the performance director.
Norb Cole Jr intends to retire from and effectiveness of the board and its the board in November 2016, also after 10 committees.
As well as looking at the years as a non-executive director.
We owe balance of skills, experience, independence both Karl and Norb a huge debt of gratitude and knowledge of the board, we also for the considerable contribution they have focused on scenario planning surrounding made to the company over those years.
key risks and the companys strategy.
Randgold Resources is committed to good AUDIT COMMITTEE governance not only at board level but The audit committee ensures the throughout the company and the enclosed companys risk management procedures report sets out the details of the companys are kept under review and provides approach to corporate governance.
oversight of the companys financial controls and financial reporting.
This is highlighted further on page 171 of this annual report.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The remuneration committees primary areas of focus were to review the executive directors base salaries and share incentive schemes, to ensure appropriate pay for performance and to review the performance measures to ensure these remained appropriate.
The remuneration report is set out on page 188 of this annual report.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 160 executive team make themselves available to meet GOVERNANCE AT RANDGOLD with shareholders and other stakeholders before and Randgold Resources Limited is incorporated in after each presentation.
Additionally, the CEO hosts Jersey, Channel Islands.
The company complies with a conference call each quarter, which affords an the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code.
opportunity for interested shareholders, stakeholders and international media to engage directly with the CEO and the CFO when the companys quarterly results are announced.
The company has been in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in Members of the remuneration committee hold annual September 2014 throughout the year ended 31 meetings with the companys major shareholders December 2015 and up to the date of this annual and voting guidance agencies where the companys report.
The Code can be viewed on the website of remuneration policies are discussed.
Issues the United Kingdoms Financial Reporting Council, and observations raised at those meetings are at www.
uk, and also on the companys then considered by the remuneration committee website www.
and reported to the board.
In 2015 members of the remuneration committee held meetings with shareholders and voting guidance agencies in Boston, New York and London.
During their visit to the Tongon gold mine in January The UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2015, the full board had the opportunity to interact September 2014 the Code sets out key corporate with shareholders and fund managers who were also governance recommendations for companies, like visiting the site at the time.
In February 2015, the Randgold, that have a premium listing of their equity chairman, together with one of the non-executive shares on the main market of the London Stock directors, attended the Mining Indaba Conference Exchange.
It consists of broad principles and specific in Cape Town, South Africa, where they had an provisions of good governance in the following areas: opportunity to interact with various investors, fund managers and members of our host country relations with shareholders: remuneration: leadership: governments.
INVESTOR ROADShOWS This corporate governance report is arranged around It is the companys policy that at least every second those main principles and, together with the audit year a series of roadshows is conducted by the committee report on pages 171 to 187 of this annual CEO, CFO and various members of the executive report, the remuneration report on pages 188 to 214 team, during which the companys major institutional and the governance & nomination committee report shareholders are briefed on the companys activities.
on pages 215 to 219, sets out how the company has Shareholders and fund managers at those investor applied the main principles of the Code during 2015. meetings are encouraged to interact with the executive management team.
The company held investor days in New York, Toronto and London RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS during 2014 and, in light of their success and positive Dialogue with our shareholders feedback, will hold further such investor days in 2016.
The board is responsible for maintaining an effective dialogue with shareholders and for ensuring that its MINING CONFERENCES members develop an understanding of the views During 2015, the CEO and other members of of the companys major shareholders.
To assist the executive team also attended the following international mining conferences and investor with this, the CEO, the corporate communications forums, where they met with shareholders and other manager and the companys investor relations stakeholders.
consultants prepare a quarterly report for the board, detailing the activities and presentations given to shareholders.
The company also employs MINING CONFERENCES ATTENDED IN 2015 international market intelligence experts to provide a global shareholder identification service which enhances the boards understanding of the companys shareholder base.
While general corporate communication with 8 2 3 5 shareholders is conducted by the CEO and the CFO, 10 4 9 the chairman and other non-executive directors 6 participate in dialogue with shareholders and other 7 stakeholders throughout the year.
The companys investor relations team also responded to a wide 1 range of shareholder queries throughout the year.
At the market presentations of the companys quarterly results, the CEO, CFO and members of the See overleaf for details ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 161 Directors reports Corporate GovernanCe report continued MINING CONFERENCES ATTENDED IN 2015 As noted in the chairmans statement on page 8 of this annual report, the board has recommended that 1 Mining Indaba, Cape Town, South Africa shareholders approve at the AGM a dividend of $0.66 2 Mine Africa, London, United Kingdom per share, which is a 10 per cent increase from last 3 Mines and Money, London, United Kingdom year.
4 Denver Gold Forum, Denver, United States REMUNERATION 5 BMO Global Metals and Mining Conference, The board has established a remuneration committee hollywood, Florida, United States which is responsible for determining and agreeing the companys remuneration policy with the board.
6 Infrastructure Partnerships for African Development, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of The companys remuneration policy is designed to Congo deliver sustainable shareholder value by attracting and retaining high calibre directors and employees.
The 7 Prospectus and Developers Association of remuneration policy applies to the remuneration of the Canada, Toronto, Canada chairman, the executive directors, the non-executive 8 BOAML Global Metals, Mining and Steel directors and the senior management of the company.
Conference, Barcelona, Spain The remuneration committee regularly reviews 9 RBC Gold Conference, London, United Kingdom directors and senior managements remuneration.
No director participates in the determination of or in any resolution on his or her own remuneration.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The board welcomes shareholders attendance and For further details of the companys remuneration participation at the annual general meeting AGM.
At policies and practices, and the remuneration paid to the AGM all resolutions put to the meeting are decided the directors, please refer to the remuneration report on a poll, which the board believes is a more equitable on pages 188 to 214 of this annual report.
method of voting, enabling voting to be more reflective of the companys shareholder base.
The number LEADERShIP of proxies received is disclosed to shareholders in The role of the board attendance at each AGM.
The role of the board is to organise and direct the At the 2015 AGM, the chairman and all other directors affairs of the company in a manner that seeks to were present and available to address queries raised maximise the value of the company for the benefit by shareholders.
Results of the AGM are published of its shareholders as a whole, while complying with on the day of the meeting to inform shareholders not relevant regulatory requirements, the companys present of the results of the voting.
The company articles of association, and relevant international welcomes the increasing trend of institutional corporate governance standards applicable to the shareholders exercising their rights to vote at the AGM.
The board guides the strategic development At the 2015 AGM all the resolutions were passed by of the company and supports the principle of collective shareholders.
The percentage of votes cast in favour responsibility for its success.
of each resolution ranged from 97.90% to 99.99%.
The board determines the companys objectives, The 2016 AGM will be held at The Royal Yacht hotel, culture and strategy and then ensures that the Weighbridge, St helier, Jersey, on Tuesday 3 May necessary financial and human resources are in place 2016 at 9:00 am.
The notice of meeting sets out the to allow those objectives to be achieved and that the resolutions which shareholders will be able to vote necessary corporate and management structures are on.
A copy of the notice of meeting is available on the companys website at www.
in place for the strategy to be implemented.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Board of directors Environmental Governance Chief executive and social Remuneration Audit committee & nomination officer oversight committee committee committee Executive Treasury committee committee BOARD OF DIRECTORS Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 162 Executive committee Treasury committee Chief executive officer Remuneration Governance Audit committee committee & nomination Environmental and committee social oversight committee Board membership The board currently comprises ten members, two executive and eight non-executive directors.
GENDER SPLIT OF BALANCE OF ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND NON-ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS The board acknowledges that for Randgold to continue to be a successful gold mining company, it must be led by an effective board, with appropriate skills, experience, independence and knowledge of 20% 20% the activities of the company, its environment and its industry.
As detailed below, all of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent both in terms of character and judgement.
The board also considers all of the companys directors have the necessary balance of skills, experience and knowledge to discharge their duties as directors of the company 80% 80% pursuant to the terms of the Code.
The board keeps the optimal balance of skills and experience under constant review, as well as ensuring there is diversity, Female Non-executive directors including gender and nationality, among its members.
Male Executive directors The governance & nomination committee is charged by the board to identify suitable candidates to fulfil the role of director of the company.
On 1 March 2015, following a selection process led by the governance & NATIONALITY OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS nomination committee and following that committees DIRECTORS AGES recommendation, the board appointed Mrs Ba-NDaw to the board as a non-executive director.
The board determined that Mrs Ba-NDaws skills and experience, as detailed in her biography on page 19 of this annual 10% 10% report, would be advantageous to the role of non- 20% executive director on the companys board and that her 20% appointment would be beneficial to the company.
20% 40% The governance & nomination committee considers potential candidates for appointment to the companys board who maintain the highest standards of corporate 30% governance and have sufficient time to commit to 50% the role, including the time to attend site visits at the companys operations.
The committee considers Africa 40-49 years potential candidates who possess the expertise to help Europe 50-59 years develop the strategy of a major international mining North America 60-69 years company along with the ability to debate issues and Asia provide constructive challenge.
While not intended to 70-79 years be a comprehensive list, potential candidates should also demonstrate the attributes set out below: LENGTh OF TENURE OF NON-ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS DIRECTOR PROFILE n honesty and integrity 25% 25% n Strong independent perspective n Sound judgement n Ability to share a cohesive vision of the 25% 25% companys strategy n International business experience n Regulatory and government policy experience 0-3 years n Understanding the countries and the industry 3-6 years in which the company operates 6-9 years 1 9 years 1 Dr Voltaire will retire from the board with effect from the end of the annual general meeting on 3 May 2016.
Mr Cole Jr will retire from the board in November 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 163 Directors reports Corporate GovernanCe report continued Chairman pages 20 and 21.
Dr Bristows skills and experience are set out in his biography on page 18 of this annual The chairman is Christopher Coleman, who was report.
appointed to the board in November 2008 and as chairman in May 2014.
The chairman leads the board, including chairing the formal board meetings, and Company secretary ensures sufficient time is devoted to its discussions.
The company secretary is Martin Welsh.
he is secretary to the board and its committees, and The chairman is also responsible for ensuring reports to the chairman and the CEO on corporate effective communication between the executive and governance matters.
The company secretary ensures non-executive directors.
he, in conjunction with the there is an effective flow of information between the company secretary and the CEO, sets the agenda for board, its committees and the management of the each board meeting and makes certain that sufficient company.
The company secretary is also responsible time is allocated for discussion, including discussion for ensuring statutory and regulatory compliance and of key strategic and operational issues.
Mr Colemans that decisions of the board and its committees are skills and experience are detailed in his biography on carried out.
Mr Welshs biography is set out on page page 18 of this annual report.
The boards responsibilities Senior independent director The boards responsibilities are set out in its Norb Cole Jr is the senior independent director of the board charter which is available on the companys company, a role in which he has served since May website www.
Mr Cole Jr makes himself available to discuss responsibilities cover a wide range of corporate any concerns shareholders may have which cannot governance matters.
The board has reserved be raised with the chairman or the CEO.
The senior certain matters to itself for decision and delegated independent director also acts as a sounding board other matters to the boards audit, remuneration and for the chairman and the CEO.
Mr Cole Jrs skills and governance & nomination committees.
As referred experience are detailed in his biography on page 18 of to above, the board has also delegated authority for this annual report.
The board is currently considering other matters to the CEO.
succession plans for the role of senior independent director given Mr Cole Jrs intention to retire from the A summary of the key matters which the board has board in November 2016. expressly reserved for its approval are set out in the table below: Chief executive officer CEO Mark Bristow is the chief executive officer.
The CEO has delegated authority from the board to BOARD RESERVED MATTERS manage the day to day administration of the company Strategy and to take decisions and actions which create n Company objectives, strategy and structure sustainable shareholder value.
The CEOs role and Risk duties are detailed in the board charter.
The board n Approving procedures for the detection of charter sets out those powers which are reserved solely fraud and the prevention of bribery for the boards discretion and consideration, while listing separately those issues for which the chairman and the n Internal controls, and risk management CEO are respectively accountable.
The CEO remains n Fiscal policies including treasury and hedging accountable to the board and for the performance of the policies company.
During the year, the CEO escalated certain n Approval of risk strategy, appetite and matters to the board which required, under the board tolerance and approval of all financial, legal, charter, deliberation by the board.
social, environmental and ethical controls of the company The CEO has established an executive committee to support him in managing the companys business.
Performance The executive committee consists of the CEO, who n Allocation of capital, operating and capital chairs the executive committee meetings, the CFO expenditure budgets and the senior managers.
The executive committee n Financial reporting is an effective management tool as it allows senior n Significant mergers and acquisitions and management to debate on a weekly basis the other material transactions: approval of all companys business and operations together with any significant mining developments other issues that may arise.
The executive committee has also proved a vital forum for sharing information Succession planning concerning the company among the management n Appointment and removal of the chairman, team.
When the need arises, the executive CEO, CFO, non-executive directors, and committee establishes sub-committees to deal with company secretary, and approval of their roles a specific scope of work, which are then tasked with and responsibilities, and succession planning reporting back to the executive committee.
Finance n Dividends, dividend policy, changes to capital In addition, the CEO chairs the companys and the listing or fide-listing of securities environmental and social oversight committee, details including debt instruments of which can be found in the sustainability report on n Approval of any significant change in the pages 96 to 157 of this annual report.
accounting policies and practices Biographical details of the senior managers who participate in the executive committee are set out on Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 164 The board has the authority to amend the matters BOARD ATTENDANCE which are reserved for its decision, subject to the Number of companys articles of association and to the law and meetings regulations applicable to the company.
eligible to DIRECTOR attend Attended The board keeps its board charter under regular review.
During the year the boards charter was reviewed by the board, in particular at the board CL Coleman 7 7 meeting in August 2015 when certain minor changes DM Bristow 7 7 were made, together with other amendments to GP Shuttleworth 7 7 reflect changes to the Code.
The board also reviewed the board charter at its February 2016 board meeting NP Cole Jr 7 7 and determined that no amendments were required.
1 S Ba-NDaw 5 5 The board is of the view that the composition and K Dagdelen 7 7 structure of the board, in conjunction with the J Kassum 7 7 activities of its committees, are sufficient to allow it to 2 effectively assess the performance of management in J Mabunda Lioko 7 6 achieving the set goals and objectives.
AJ Quinn 7 7 K Voltaire 7 7 Board culture The companys directors provide a wide variety 1 Mrs Ba-NDaw was appointed to the board on 1 March 2015. of skills, experience and knowledge to the board.
2 Mrs Mabunda Lioko was unable to attend one meeting of the board which was organised at short notice, due to a prior commitment.
Biographical details of the companys board of directors are given on pages 18 and 19 of this annual report.
This mix of skills allows for a balanced Where a director is unable to attend a board meeting, perspective to be provided on the companys the chairman will ensure the director receives the business and its strategy, and ensures the companys papers in advance and he will seek to canvas that entrepreneurial approach to business is maintained.
directors views prior to the meeting in order for all directors opinions to be considered at the meeting.
An atmosphere of open, constructive debate exists at the companys board meetings, allowing directors to During 2015, seven board meetings were held.
Four engage with executive management on key aspects of were scheduled quarterly board meetings and three policy and performance.
The chairman encourages were called in relation to specific events.
Quarterly all directors to participate in the boards discussions board meetings typically take place over a two day and debates, thereby fostering a collegiate and period, with the first day allocated to the board collaborative approach which underpins the boards committee meetings and the second day allocated to decision making processes.
The intervening evening allows the board members to engage in informal discussions Maintaining the companys culture and strategy and among themselves on the activities of the company having alignment throughout the company is a key and the groups strategy.
To achieve this, a number of strategy meetings involving the companys senior The chairman and the non-executive directors met management, and separate meetings with mine several times during the year in the absence of the management, take place throughout the year, with executive directors.
The non-executive directors find each meeting regarded as an opportunity to affirm these sessions useful in supporting their assessment and develop the companys strategy.
All aspects of and management of the internal controls, and it is the companys business are discussed at its strategy their intention to have further sessions without the meetings, which typically last for several days.
During executive directors being present over the course the strategy meetings in 2015 the following areas, among others, were considered: of 2016.
A meeting of the non-executive directors, chaired by the senior independent director, was also held to appraise the chairmans performance.
Reappointment 2015 STRATEGY MEETINGS n In accordance with the Code, all the directors have Company performance and strategy offered themselves for re-election at the AGM, other n Companys values than Dr Voltaire who will retire as a director of the n Scenario planning company following the AGM.
In accordance with the n Developing the companys employees companys articles of association, a director may be removed from office by the board or by shareholders.
In addition the articles of association require any newly appointed director to stand for election by Board attendance shareholders after his her appointment by the board.
The company requires all directors to attend its board meetings wherever possible in person or by Board committees conference call, and to devote sufficient time to In order to facilitate its supervision of the company discharge their duties effectively.
The directors and to effectively assess the performance of attendance at the companys board meetings in 2015 management in achieving set goals and objectives, the board has established three board committees: are shown in the following table: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 165 Directors reports Corporate GovernanCe report continued the audit committee, the remuneration committee EFFECTIVENESS and the governance & nomination committee, and Directors independence has delegated certain powers to each.
Details of The board considers that all the non-executive the terms of reference of each committee and the directors are independent and that the chairman was members of each committee are available on the independent on appointment.
The members of the committees are set out in the having given the matter careful consideration, the diagram below and in the respective committee board is satisfied that both Dr Voltaire and Mr Cole reports in this annual report.
Jr remain independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that the tenth anniversary of their The board ensures that each of its committees has appointment to the board will fall in May 2016, shortly sufficient resources to fulfil its responsibilities.
The before the 2016 AGM which is to be held on 3 May board and each committee also have the ability to rely 2016.
The board believes that both Dr Voltaire and on the services of the company secretary, and to seek Mr Cole Jr continue to act independently in the best other professional advice should it choose.
Each interests of the company.
In determining its view the committee reports to the board after its meetings board considered Mr Cole Jrs position as a nonthrough the committee chairman and through the executive director of Papa Johns International Inc, circulation of meeting minutes and written resolutions.
the NASDAQ listed company of which Christopher Coleman is also a non-executive director, and All committee members may attend a committee concluded that Mr Cole Jrs independence is not meeting and the chairman of a committee may invite affected by this position.
No executive director is a member of any of the boards committees.
As indicated in last years annual report and as announced by the company in February 2016, Dr Voltaire will retire from the board with effect from the end of the 2016 AGM.
During the year Dr Voltaire MEMBERShIP OF ThE BOARDS COMMITTEES stepped down as chairman of the audit committee and was replaced by Mr Kassum.
With respect to Mr Cole Jr, the board is of the view that he continues to make a valuable contribution through his role as senior independent director as well REMUNERATION AUDIT as to the work of the board more broadly.
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Mr Cole Jrs international business experience adds Andrew Quinn significantly to the skills and expertise of the board.
Jeanine As indicated in last years annual report, Mr Cole Jr Karl Voltaire Mabunda Lioko intends to retire from the board in November 2016.
RANDgOLD he intends to remain in office until then in order to Safiatou COMMITTEE maintain continuity, ensure a smooth handover of Ba-NDaw MEMBERSHIP board and committee experience and knowledge, and help to integrate more recently appointed Norb Cole non-executive directors.
During the year Mr Cole Jamil Kassum Christopher Jr stepped down as chairman of the remuneration Coleman committee but remains a member of the committee.
Mr Quinn replaced Mr Cole Jr as chairman of the Kadri Dagdelen remuneration committee.
gOvERNANCE The board continually evaluates its composition, the & NOMINATION independence of its members, and its succession COMMITTEE plans to ensure board members continue to bring objectivity and independent judgment to their roles and that a plan is in place for their succession.
Managing conflicts of interests Succession planning The directors have a duty to avoid conflicts of Ensuring effective succession plans are in place, taking interests.
Where conflicts arise the companys into account the companys strategic plans, is a key articles of association require directors to notify responsibility for the board.
The companys succession the company.
All potential conflicts of interest are planning is integral to its strategic plans.
The board, recorded by the company secretary in accordance in conjunction with the governance & nomination with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and are committee, regularly reviews the companys succession reviewed by the non-conflicted directors at each plans which involve not only board members but also quarterly board meeting.
The directors have a senior management.
In particular, the board has continuing responsibility to inform the board of succession plans in place for the chairman, CEO, CFO any changes to their appointments.
Before being and for senior management.
The board is currently appointed to the board the interests of potential considering the succession plans for senior independent candidates are considered by the governance & director, given Mr Cole Jrs intention to retire from the nomination committee in the first instance and then board in November 2016. by the board in order for any potential conflicts to be Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 166 identified and addressed.
The boards procedure aware of the work of each committee.
All directors to regularly review conflicts of interest as they arise receive a copy of the committees minutes and the operated effectively in 2015.
No current director, resolutions passed by a board committee, at the whether executive or non-executive, is a director of boards subsequent meeting.
however as can be As in previous years, Dr Dagdelen has worked with seen on page 18 of this annual report, Messrs Cole the companys mining, exploration and mineral Jr and Coleman are also non-executive directors resources departments to facilitate mine optimisation of Papa Johns International Inc, and Dr Bristow is and geological knowledge as well as providing mining a non-executive director and chairman of Rockwell induction training to newly appointed directors of the Diamonds Inc, the Johannesburg Stock Exchange company.
and Toronto Stock Exchange listed company.
Board evaluation As at the date of this annual report there are no interests that have been disclosed that are considered In accordance with the Code the boards to impinge on a directors independence.
effectiveness is evaluated annually and every third year an independent evaluation is conducted by an The companys articles of association are available at external facilitator.
The board, led by the chairman, the companys website www.
evaluated its performance for 2015 and also the performance of the chairman and the boards committees.
Each director completed a detailed Director induction and development questionnaire concerning the operation of the The board believes in the continuous training and board and the committees, followed by a round development of its members.
The chairman ensures table discussion on the questionnaires results and that upon appointment each director undertakes a individual performance of each board member.
The comprehensive programme of induction which is review of the performance of the chairman was led by developed by the company secretary in conjunction the senior independent director and this concluded with the companys legal and financial advisors.
that the chairman continues to perform at a high Induction materials are also made available to each level and provides the necessary leadership to the new director.
The chairman encourages each existing board to allow it to function effectively.
During the director to attend further training to ensure their skills year the remuneration committee was provided with a remain effective.
The board is also provided with written appraisal of the CEOs and the CFOs strategic training on an ad hoc basis in consultation with the outputs performance.
chairman and the company secretary to keep abreast of topical corporate governance issues.
Additionally, As well as looking at the balance of skills, experience, throughout the year, the company secretary furnishes independence and knowledge of the board, the the board with information on corporate governance evaluation review also focused on scenario planning procedures and practice.
surrounding political risk, volatility of input costs and commodity prices from which the companys future In 2015 the board attended a workshop on the duties strategies were debated.
and responsibilities of directors of a listed company, and an industry update on US securities law and the Following its evaluation the board determined that US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The workshop was no areas of weakness in any individual directors developed by the company secretary in conjunction performance were identified.
The board will continue with the governance & nomination committee and was with its succession planning for board members and hosted by the companys legal advisors.
Members senior management, and also continue its review of of the audit committee also attended a workshop on the boards balance of skills and experience.
the trends in audit committee reporting, extractive industry reporting and governance, organised by the The board undertook an evaluation conducted by companys auditors.
an external facilitator in 2014, as detailed in the 2014 annual report, and intends to undertake a further Also in 2015, the board visited the Tongon gold evaluation with an external facilitator in respect of its mine where its first board meeting of the year was 2017 financial year end.
It is the companys policy that the board visits at least one of the companys operations each year.
While at the Tongon gold mine the board attended tours of the mine and the processing plant, and the directors had an opportunity to discuss the mines progress, and its social programmes with senior management, employees and local stakeholders.
The board derives considerable value from engagement with the operational management teams and from the presentations provided by management which further board members knowledge and develop their understanding of day-to-day operational challenges.
In addition each board committee makes its agenda and discussion papers available to the full board rather than limiting those materials to committee members.
This allows all board members to be ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 167 Directors reports Corporate GovernanCe report continued SUMMARY OF MAIN ACTIVITIES OF ThE BOARD 2015 MONTH Summary of main activities of the board in 2015 January n Considered a potential investment into the Obuasi gold mine, Ghana February n Reviewed the results for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the preliminary announcement n Reviewed the performance of the operations n Approved the 2014 final dividend n Approved the 2015 budget and considered the 5 year business plan n Approved changes to the boards committees n Reviewed and approved the treasury policy n Considered the performance metrics for the executive directors remuneration and share incentive arrangements n Confirmed the 1 year remuneration policy n Set the location and meeting time for the 2015 annual general meeting n Approved the companys country ranking n Reviewed and approved the companys board charter and board committees terms of reference n Considered the quarterly litigation and arbitration report n Evaluated the effectiveness of the board and the boards committees n March early Appointed Mrs Ba-NDaw to the board March mid n Approved the audited results for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the 2014 annual report and financial statements n Approved the notice of meeting for the annual general meeting n Approved the annual resources and reserves declaration n March late Approved the audited annual report on Form 20-F May n Reviewed the quarter 1, 2015 results and approved the corresponding announcement n Reviewed the performance of the operations n Considered the 5 year business plan n Approved the allotment of shares in relation to the scrip dividend scheme n Approved the allotment and issue of shares to the non-executive directors n Declared and paid the 2014 final dividend n Approved executive directors performance metrics for the remuneration and share incentive arrangements n Considered the quarterly litigation and arbitration report n August Reviewed the quarter 2, 2015 results and approved the corresponding announcement n Reviewed the performance of the operations n Considered the 5 year business plan n Approved the companys country report n Considered the share incentive arrangements for employees n Considered a potential joint venture transaction involving the Obuasi gold mine, Ghana n Approved the treasury policy n Considered the quarterly litigation and arbitration report n Reviewed the board charter n September Approved documents in relation to the Obuasi gold mine, Ghana, transaction November n Reviewed the quarter 3, 2015 results and approved the corresponding announcement n Reviewed the performance of the operations n Considered the 5 year business plan n Considered the share incentive arrangements for employees n Considered the quarterly litigation and arbitration report n December Considered the Obuasi gold mine, Ghana, transaction early n Considered the status of the groups arbitration disputes n December Special committee of the board approved the termination of the Obuasi gold mine, Ghana, transaction late Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 168 At each quarterly board meeting, the minutes and ACCOUNTABILITY or resolutions of the previous meetings are reviewed The board has overall responsibility for setting and and approved by the board.
The board also reviews managing the companys risk management and minutes of the previous meetings of the three board financial controls.
Throughout the year under review committees.
An agenda for each board meeting the board monitored the groups risk management is prepared in advance which is reviewed by the and financial control systems and reviewed their chairman and the CEO.
The company secretary then effectiveness in accordance with the Code.
Following prepares a detailed briefing pack of documents which that review the board confirms that it is satisfied cover the operations and business of the company that risk management and internal controls remain and includes reports from each mine, major project effective and up-to-date, and that the company is and other activities, along with sections covering meeting the required standards.
Further details of health and safety, financial, legal, technical, human the companys risk management and financial control systems are set out in the audit committee report on resources, treasury, tax, environmental, sustainability page 171 of this annual report.
In formulating this view the board considered the In 2015, all of the boards meetings were held in regular audit reports from the head of internal audit, Jersey, Channel Islands other than the February the companys compliance with the US Sarbanesquarterly board meeting which was held at the Oxley Act and the effectiveness of the internal Tongon gold mine, Cte dIvoire.
Additionally, the board, relying on the detailed assessments undertaken by the audit At the boards February 2016 meeting, which was committee, scrutinised reports from the external held at the Kibali gold mine, Democratic Republic of auditor and its comments on control matters, Congo, the board approved the form of the notice for significant risks and corporate governance matters.
the annual general meeting and the form of directors In 2015, as part of its regular review, the board also reports for the 2015 annual report.
The board also considered the risks facing the business and their recommended that shareholders approve a final appropriateness for inclusion in the companys risk dividend to shareholders of $0.66 per share, a 10 per register, the process of identifying risk, and the cent increase from last year.
The audit committee assists the board in determining the effectiveness of the companys financial controls and the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors.
The responsibilities and activities of the ALLOCATION OF BOARD TIME audit committee are set out in the audit committee report on pages 171 to 187 of this annual report.
5% 5% On behalf of the board of directors 30% 15% 15% 30% Christopher Coleman Chairman Randgold Resources Limited Financial controls, reporting and dividends Strategy, 5 year planning and group performance Corporate governance, group policies, whistleblowing and risk appetite and framework New business including exploration Environmental and social Board composition, effectiveness, succession planning and compensation ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 169
