AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The audit committee continued its oversight of financial controls and risk management and also focused on its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting and external audit effectiveness, as required under the UK Corporate Governance Code, to ensure the continued integrity of the companys financial statements.
Jamil 1 Kassum CHAIRMAN Jeanine Mabunda Lioko Karl Safiatou 2 3 Voltaire Ba-NDaw Andrew Quinn 1 Mr Kassum was appointed chairman of the audit committee with effect from 4 May 2015.
2 Dr Voltaire retired as chairman of the audit committee with effect from 4 May 2015 but has remained a member of the audit committee.
Dr Voltaire will retire from the audit committee with effect from 2 May 2016.
3 Mrs Ba-NDaw has been appointed to the audit committee with effect from 2 May 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 171 Directors reports Audit committee RepoRt continued Dear shareholders I am pleased to present the audit committees report DUTIES, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES for the year ended 31 December 2015.
OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE n Monitoring the integrity of the financial The principal purpose of the audit committee is to statements and formal announcements assist the board to fulfil its corporate governance relating to the groups financial performance and oversight responsibilities to ensure the integrity and reviewing significant financial and other of the companys financial and corporate reporting reporting judgements.
while ensuring robust systems of internal control n Reviewing and challenging, where necessary, and risk management are in place and are operating the consistency and appropriateness of effectively.
accounting principles, policies and practices which have been adopted by the group in the COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES preparation of the annual financial statements, The audit committees duties, roles and financial reporting issues and disclosures in responsibilities are described in its terms of the financial reports.
reference available on the companys website n Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness www.
com and include the of the groups internal control and risk responsibilities in the table alongside: management systems, including reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and reporting key risks and control activities.
MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE The audit committee oversees the groups financial n Approving the internal audit plan and reporting and internal controls and provides a formal reviewing regular reports from the head of link with the groups external auditors.
It performs its internal audit on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
duties by maintaining effective working relationships with the board, management and internal and external n Making recommendations to the board on the auditors.
Under the governance of the chairman, appointment, re-appointment or change of the the audit committee met six times during the year to groups external auditors and approving the discharge its duties and responsibilities.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors.
Attendance of members of the audit committee during n Overseeing the boards relationship with 2015 is shown in the table below.
the external auditors and ensuring the groups external auditors independence and COMMITTEE EXPERTISE AND objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process is monitored and reviewed.
INDEPENDENCE Each of the members of the audit committee is an n Developing, implementing and maintaining independent non-executive director.
a policy on the engagement of the groups external auditors for the supply of non-audit The audit committee members have been selected to services.
provide the wide range of financial, commercial and n Reporting to the board any matters which the industry expertise necessary to fulfil the committees committee has identied as needing to be duties and responsibilities.
The audit committee considered, actioned or improved upon.
members have extensive experience in relation to n Monitoring the groups compliance with financial matters, as detailed in the biographies on legal and regulatory requirements including pages 18 to 19 of this annual report, and the board ensuring that effective procedures are in place believes that this level of experience continues to be relating to the groups whistleblowing and sufficient to meet the standards set by the Code.
the event that any issues arise which are deemed n Assessing whether the annual report, outside the areas of expertise of the members of the considered in its entirety, is fair, balanced and audit committee, independent professional advice understandable, and provides the information is always sought.
In relation to tax and value added necessary for shareholders to assess the tax TVA disputes as well as general tax matters, companys position and performance, management has sought the expertise of external business model and strategy, and then advisors during the year, which has been provided to subsequently recommending its approval to the audit committee to help support its assessment of the board.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Date appointed to the audit 5 February 11 March 26 March 4 May 2 August 1 November 1 1 1 1 2 2 MeMber committee 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 J Kassum 3 May 2014 J Mabunda Lioko 3 May 2014 A Quinn 1 November 2011 K Voltaire 1 August 2006 1 Dr Voltaire chaired the meeting of the audit committee.
2 Mr Kassum chaired the meeting of the audit committee.
Randgold Resou Randgold ResouR Rces ces ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 T 2015 172 172 other published information to ensure statutory and COMMITTEES REMUNERATION regulatory compliance.
The committees views are In accordance with the terms of the directors reported to the board to assist in its review and the remuneration policy for more details of the approval of results announcements, the annual report companys remuneration policy please see page and annual report on Form 20-F. 190 of this annual report members of the audit committee received the following fees as set out in The audit committee considered the 2015 annual the table below.
These fees were paid in addition to report and financial statements and advised the the other fees and an award of shares made to each board that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced non-executive director as detailed on page 196 of this and understandable, and provides the information annual report.
necessary for shareholders to assess the groups FEES PAID position and performance, business model and strategy.
MeMber Fees The audit committee makes its recommendation based on a comprehensive review conducted by J Kassum Received a fee of $48 333 for the the executive directors and the senior management 2015 financial year for being a who commence the first review of the annual member and the chairman of the report in early December at which point key areas audit committee.
for improvement are discussed and amendments recommended.
Guidance is issued to the J Mabunda Received a fee of $35 000 for the contributors at the beginning and throughout the Lioko 2015 financial year for services preparation process and reports on actions and provided to the audit committee.
significant areas of judgement are made to the audit A Quinn Received a fee of $35 000 for the committee as appropriate.
The audit committee 2015 financial year for services closely oversees the work of senior management who are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of provided to the audit committee.
the information submitted in the annual report and K Voltaire Received a fee of $41 666 for the assessing whether the narrative section of the annual 2015 financial year for services report is consistent with the accounting information.
provided to the audit committee.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE S Ba-NDaw Mrs S Ba-NDaw has been COMMITTEE appointed to the audit committee In planning the year-end audit and at the conclusion with effect from 2 May 2016. of the audit of the financial statements, the audit Consequently, no fees were committee considered with management and the received by Mrs Ba-NDaw during external auditors the key areas of focus for the audit 2015. and their significance to the groups reporting of results and the degree of judgement involved in their evaluation.
The significant areas of consideration FINANCIAL REPORTING or judgement deliberated by the audit committee in The primary role of the audit committee in relation to 2015, through assessment of management reports to financial reporting is the review with key management the audit committee and presentations by the external and the external auditors, as applicable, of the annual auditors, in respect of the annual report and financial statements are set out in the table below: report, Form 20-F, quarterly financial reports and Significant iSSueS and How the committee addressed these significant issues and judgements judgeMentS during 2015 The tax disputes in which the group is The audit committee received managements report on the position of currently engaged current tax claims and a review of the arbitration status and the legal as detailed in notes 3 and 19 on pages foundation for the dispute of tax claims.
The audit committee also f-16 and f-33 respectively, the group sought, through management, external expert advice in relation to these is subject to a range of tax claims and matters.
The audit committee, with management, reviewed in detail the related legal action in the jurisdictions reports and correspondence relating to the tax claims and arbitration in which it operates that have arisen case.
Management presented its view of the disclosure of tax claims in the ordinary course of business.
and provisioning to the audit committee for scrutiny.
the material claims being from the Malian tax authorities totalling $280.0 As taxation claims represented a higher audit risk BDO LLP BDO also million, including the Loulo tax claim.
considered this issue, as discussed in their report on pages F-3 to certain of the claims from the Malian F-5, and the audit committee received detailed reporting from BDO on tax authorities are currently under these matters.
The audit committee discussed and considered their arbitration with the World bank groups assessment on this matter, including their assessment of managements international centre for Settlement of judgements that the material tax claims are without foundation, as well investment disputes.
as the appropriateness of the financial statement disclosures in respect of each area.
no new tax claims were made by the State of Mali in the year.
The audit committee is satisfied that the evidence produced, both from internal assessment and from external legal and tax advice, supports the view that the material claims are wholly without merit or foundation in the context of the tax laws of the countries in which it operates.
Accordingly, losses associated with the material claims are considered to be remote under IFRS.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 173 Directors reports Audit committee RepoRt continued Significant iSSueS and How the committee addressed these significant issues and judgements judgeMentS during 2015 The assessment of the carrying value The audit committee considered and scrutinised managements detailed of mining assets, ore stockpiles and assessment of the carrying value of mining assets, ore stockpiles and investments in joint ventures investments in joint ventures, and the underlying assumptions used in The groups mining assets, ore the impairment testing of the groups assets in support of their carrying stockpiles and investments in joint value, including key judgements and estimates, LoM plans and the ventures represent the most significant analysis of assumptions used.
group assets as well as having Key judgements and estimates undergo extensive internal review and commercial significance to the various challenge prior to submission to the audit committee.
For example projects and the long term plans of the the gold price utilised is reviewed against average prices, the current group.
forward gold curve, consensus pricing and long term inflation.
The future viability and recoverability of Management calculated the discount rate based on the Weightedthese balances are underpinned by the Average Cost of Capital method and assessed this against current groups Life of Mine LoM plans.
available cost of borrowing for the company.
The audit committee made The LoM plans and associated detailed enquiry of managements assessment prior to concluding it was impairment models are supported by a appropriate and robust.
This review included challenge over the gold number of variables which are subject price used, discount rates, LoM plans and operational assumptions and to various significant judgements and sensitivities.
estimates, including the gold price, The audit committee also critically challenged managements oil prices, production volumes, ore assessment of the underlying economic models to satisfy themselves reserves, expenditure and inflation of the integrity of the impairment tests and the key estimates and and discount rates used.
variable factor in the groups LoMs is the gold price and during the year the gold As detailed in their report on pages F-3 to F-5, BDO considered this price has ranged between a low of matter.
As this is a recurring area of judgement, BDO provided detailed $1 055 oz and a high of $1 295 oz.
reporting on these matters to the audit committee including its own This continued to represent a significant assessment of key judgements and estimates made by management area of focus for the audit committee, along with sensitivity testing and analysis.
including the judgements in relation Having critically assessed the key assumptions, such as future gold to the assumptions underlying the prices, which is reported to the audit committee each quarter, the audit assessment of the carrying value, committee concluded no reasonable sensitivities would give rise to primarily being the sustainability of impairment reflecting the groups strategic planning and the proven and the long term business plans and the probable reserves being determined at a $1 000 oz cut-off.
The audit potential volatility in the gold price.
committee was satisfied that the carrying value of mining assets, ore In addition, the carrying value of mining stockpiles and investments in joint ventures is appropriate.
assets, ore stockpiles and investments in joint ventures is impacted by the The audit committee reviewed and scrutinised the groups depreciation groups unit of production depreciation policy and its application, including the judgmental factors such as the charge, which involves a number of key application of asset commissioning and the determination of ore reserves judgements including the allocation attributable to key asset categories in the use of a units of production of assets to relevant reserves.
groups depreciation policy is one based Following the assessment, the audit committee is satisfied as to the on a unit of production methodology continued appropriateness of the depreciation policy and its associated it relies upon determining the ore estimates.
reserves attributable to each key asset category which requires management to exercise a degree of judgement upon this decision.
Management is also responsible for determining the date at which key assets are commissioned and thus when depreciation may commence.
The carrying value of ore stockpiles requires judgemental input from management in relation to determining the point at which each stockpile shall be processed in the future.
Management determines this based on LoM plans, forecast gold prices and cost of production.
Randgold Resou Randgold ResouR Rces ces ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 T 2015 174 174 Significant iSSueS and How the committee addressed these significant issues and judgements judgeMentS during 2015 The carrying value and the Management presented an assessment of the recoverability of the recoverability of TVA groups TVA receivables to the audit committee including the estimated As detailed in notes 3, 7 and 17 to the timing for the recovery of amounts outstanding and, where appropriate, financial statements on pages F-16, whether balances could be offset against future taxes payable in F-19 and F-30, the group is carrying accordance with the groups legally binding mining conventions.
significant TVA receivable balances and the assessment of the carrying value and The audit committee interrogated managements assessment of the the recoverability of the TVA receivables recoverability of the TVA receivables along with the expected timing.
held by the group represents a significant The material nature of the TVA balances and the recoverability of area of focus for the audit committee.
TVA balances are areas of higher audit risk and accordingly the audit The committee focuses on any indicators committee received detailed reporting from BDO on these matters.
As of underlying impairment associated with detailed on pages F-3 to F-5, BDO reported on the results of the testing disputes, as well as considering the likely performed in respect of TVA, including their critical assessment of the timing of recovery.
recoverability of TVA receivables in Mali and the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, as well as the appropriateness of the financial statement disclosures in respect of each area.
Subsequent to their detailed review of the recoverability of TVA balances and the timing associated with the recoverability the audit committee was satisfied that the carrying values are recoverable and managements assessment is appropriate.
This conclusion was based on the future corporate tax payment profile at Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila, the history of cash receipts and the absence of disputed TVA receivables at Kibali.
Capital expenditure, related controls The audit committee received detailed reports on material capital and areas of estimation expenditure during the period and challenged managements During 2015 the group continued to make assessment of areas of estimation such as depreciation, asset significant investment in its mines and commissioning dates, production phase, opencast stripping cost policy projects through capital expenditure, application and allocation of costs between operational and capital in particular at the Loulo and Kibali expenditure.
The audit committee reviewed the groups capitalisation mines.
The magnitude and commercial policies and challenged managements review of the allocation of costs significance of capital expenditure, along amongst operating expenditure, capital expenditure and ore stockpiles.
with the related capital expenditure controls, allocation of costs and, where The audit committee sought to assure itself through the review of the applicable, areas of estimation, continued assessment from internal audit over the capital expenditure procedures to represent a key area of focus for the and controls, including controls around authorisation, capital cost audit committee.
allocation and the application of the groups accounting policies, that controls in place were sufficient.
As detailed on pages F-3 to F-5 BDO considered this matter and reported to the audit committee on their testing performed on the capital expenditure related controls and areas of estimation.
Through their critical assessment and review of material capital expenditure, cost allocation methodology, areas of estimation and the related controls, the audit committee were satisfied that managements assessment, accounting and disclosure of these matters is appropriate.
MAIN ACTIVITIES IN 2015 The committee assisted the board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment of internal controls.
During the year, it also reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function and managed the groups relationship with the external auditors.
The committee also considered the viability statement requirement for the annual report pursuant to the Code.
During the six meetings in the year, the committee focused on and considered the following main activities as detailed in the table on the following page: ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 175 Directors reports Audit committee RepoRt continued Meeting date Main activities n 5 February 2015 Reviewed the groups fourth quarter preliminary announcement, draft report and accounts for 2014 and the groups assessment of going concern.
n Considered a dividend in light of the financial results for 2014 and subsequently proposed the declaration of a final dividend.
n Reviewed accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements.
n Reviewed key accounting estimates and judgements for the 2014 financial statements, as well as significant issues including tax claims: recoverability of TVA balance: capital expenditure and related estimations: and carrying value of mining assets, ore stockpiles and investments in joint ventures.
n Reviewed and scrutinised groups impairment testing and carrying values of mining assets, ore stockpiles and investments in joint ventures.
n Considered reports from the external auditors on its audit and its review of the 2014 accounts including accounting policies and areas of judgement, and its comments on control matters, significant risks and corporate governance matters.
n Assessed the independence of the external auditors for 2014. n Met with the external auditors without management being present.
n Reviewed and approved the groups non-audit services policy.
n Approved the audit committees terms of reference.
n Considered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, risk factors, litigation and treasury.
n Reviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 SOX compliance.
n Reviewed the performance of internal audit and approved the internal audit strategy and plan for 2015. n Met with internal audit without management being present n Reviewed the groups insurance update.
n Reviewed the groups treasury policy.
n 11 March 2015 Reviewed and approved the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, including discussion with the external auditors and detailed evaluation of that report.
n Reviewed and approved the notice of annual general meeting of shareholders 2015.
26 March 2015 n Reviewed and approved the annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2014, including discussion with the external auditors and lawyers, and detailed evaluation of that report.
4 May 2015 n Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the first quarter 2015. n Considered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, litigation and treasury.
n Reviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and SOX compliance.
n 2 August 2015 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the second quarter 2015. n Considered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, risk factors, litigation and treasury.
n Considered the risk management update and risk review for the year, including considerations on risks facing the business.
n Met with internal audit without management being present.
n Considered a report on cyber security from internal audit.
n Reviewed the groups whistleblowing policy.
n Received an update from the external auditors on accounting, reporting and governance developments.
Randgold Resou Randgold ResouR Rces ces ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 T 2015 176 176 Meeting date Main activities n 1 November 2015 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the third quarter of 2015. n Considered and approved the group annual insurance renewal.
Approved the proposed external audit scope and fees for 2015. n Considered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, litigation and treasury.
n Reviewed reports from internal audit on IT governance and controls.
n Considered the performance of the external auditors, assessed their independence, qualification, expertise and resources, the effectiveness of the audit process and partner rotation: considered the appointment of BDO for 2015 and recommended its appointment to the board.
The audit committee is regularly updated on proposed RESPONSIBILITIES and new legislation and best practice.
To assist The committee considers the going concern basis management in providing the information to allow of preparation for the financial statements to be the audit committee to discharge its responsibilities, appropriate having reviewed cash flow forecasts the groups CFO, external auditors and the head prepared by management and challenged the of internal audit, regularly attend audit committee assumptions used in such forecasts.
The audit committee and the board F-11 of this annual report for further details.
derive considerable value from engagement with the operational management teams and discussing VIABILITY STATEMENT first hand with management the core control, risk Following the recent amendments to the Code, identification and risk mitigation processes in place at the committee considered the companys viability the operations.
In February 2015, the board visited over a five year period to 31 December 2020 the Tongon gold mine in Cte dIvoire and in February and recommended to the board that the viability 2016 the Kibali gold mine in the DRC, during which statement set out on page 170 of this annual report time they inspected the operations and engaged with be approved.
COMMITTEES TERMS OF REFERENCE The board reviewed its board charter and committees terms of reference at the August 2015 board meeting and following the review the board AUDIT COMMITTEE made certain minor changes to the audit committees ALLOCATION OF AGENDA TIME terms of reference.
A copy of the audit committees terms of reference is available in the corporate 3% governance section of the companys website at 7% www.
8% EXTERNAL AUDIT 31% The groups external auditors are BDO.
BDO 10% undertake their audits at all the groups significant operations including any joint venture operations as well as at the groups corporate offices.
The audit committee monitors the external auditors 19% independence and objectivity taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
22% Both the board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the Internal controls including financial auditors objectivity and independence could be reporting control framework and financial compromised.
The external auditors independence reporting developments is reviewed on at least an annual basis by the Risk management and risk reporting committee.
This review includes confirming that the Financial statements and accounting external auditors are, in their judgement, independent policies of the group, and reviewing the economic importance Internal audit of the group to the external auditors.
Regulatory and governance The audit committee is committed to maintaining External audit, auditor engagement and policy the highest standards of audit quality.
The audit committee monitors the external auditors Group insurance performance and the effectiveness of the audit process.
This is undertaken within the framework of ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 177 Directors reports Audit committee RepoRt continued the detailed terms of engagement and agreed audit 4 February 2016, the audit committee reafrmed the scope and approach.
Management receives regular groups non-audit services policy.
feedback from the business on the audit process and the audit committee uses this feedback, along with EXTERNAL AUDIT FEES other formal and informal processes, to assess the The audit committee approved the auditors fees for effectiveness of the external audit process.
The audit 2016 after reviewing the audit plan, level and nature committee assesses the effectiveness of the external of work to be performed as detailed in the audit audit by reviewing the quality and scope of the audit scope and after being satisfied that the fees were planning process and its reaction to changes in the appropriate for the work required.
companys business and environment, by considering the auditors methodology, sector experience, their ability to challenge management on significant areas auditorS feeS 2015 2014 of judgement and their demonstration of robust challenge around key areas.
1 Audit services 713 870 718 500 BDO rotates the audit engagement partner every Non-audit services n a n a five years: as at 31 December 2015 the current audit 1 Including the groups attributable share of audits of joint ventures partner has acted as the BDO audit engagement operated by the group.
partner to the group for four years.
INTERNAL AUDIT The audit committee makes recommendations to the Internal audit independently reviews the risks and board in relation to the appointment, reappointment control processes operated by management.
It and any changes to the external auditors.
BDO were carries out independent audits in accordance with an appointed in 2007 following a formal review and internal audit plan which is reviewed and agreed with tendering process.
The board has since established the audit committee at the beginning of each financial a formal policy relating to the periodic review of the year.
The internal audit plan agenda is driven by the external auditors, which stipulates that the external groups assessment of its key risks and uncertainties, audit shall be put out to formal tender every five which are contained on pages 181 to 184 of this years with the next planned tender following the annual report.
During the tender process, the audit committee will review the credentials of The head of internal audit has responsibility to the other providers of external audit services as well as audit committee and has direct access to members the incumbent auditors, along with other pertinent of the audit committee, the chairman of the audit information, and conclude on their capability to committee and the chairman of the board.
The conduct the audit while delivering a high quality and head of internal audit attended five audit committee cost effective audit service.
At these meetings, the audit committee considered and discussed various Taking into account the output of the audit committees committee reports, internal audit plans, SOX and review of the groups external auditors independence internal audit reports and internal audit findings.
and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process, together with other relevant review processes During the year, the audit committee held discussions conducted throughout the year, the audit committee with the head of internal audit without the presence of is satisfied to recommend that the board proposes management as well as outside the formal committee to shareholders that BDO be reappointed as external processes.
The head of internal audit works across auditors to the group to hold office until conclusion of the group with responsibility for reviewing, evaluating, the companys 2017 annual general meeting.
Their developing and providing assurance on the adequacy reappointment will be recommended to shareholders of the internal control environment, operating at the companys AGM in May 2016.
There are no efficiency and risk identication and management contractual restrictions on the boards ability to appoint across all of the groups operations while reporting alternative external auditors.
back to the audit committee on findings.
The audit committee is also responsible for the oversight of the The external auditors are regularly invited to attend groups compliance activities in relation to Section and participate in audit committee meetings to report 404 of SOX, under which internal audit report to the on their activities.
The audit committee met with the committee in relation to each quarterly period.
external auditors, without the executive directors or management being present.
Such meetings took The audit committee assessed the effectiveness of place in February 2015, November 2015 and February the groups internal audit function during the year, 2016.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors nding that sufficient work had been undertaken are shown below.
to provide effective assurance around financial processes and controls in relation to the SOX work NON-AUDIT SERVICES performed in the year and that the internal audit The audit committee is responsible for monitoring function has had full access to all areas of the group.
and reviewing the objectivity and independence of the The board notes that no cost effective system can external audit which is supported by a policy which preclude all errors and irregularities and therefore stipulates that the external auditors are prohibited the groups system of internal controls provides from providing non-audit services to the group.
In line reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against with the audit committees policy during the year no material misstatement or loss.
non-audit services were provided by BDO.
On Randgold Resou Randgold ResouR Rces ces ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 T 2015 178 178 ANTICORRUPTION AND BUSINESS CONTROL ENVIRONMENT INTEGRITY The audit committee has assessed the groups The group prohibits bribery and corruption in all forms control environment including controls around fraud throughout its business and those of its contractors prevention and detection such as whistleblowing and suppliers.
The groups code of conduct and procedures.
This assessment, which included its general conditions of contract assist its business assessment of reports by the internal and external and employees in countering bribery, corruption auditors, enabled the committee to be satisfied that and unethical behaviour.
The group considers and risks of management override of controls or material addresses bribery and corruption risks as part of its fraud were suitably mitigated.
ongoing risk management process, which includes performing appropriate due diligence when engaging The group maintains a sound system of internal third parties, entering into partnerships and joint control which is embedded at all its operations and ventures and updating that due diligence periodically sites, as part of the boards commitment to the long during the relationship.
term success of the company and the protection of the value of its reputation and assets in order to As in previous years, the group continued with its safeguard the interests of its shareholders.
whistleblowing programme at all its operations and sites.
This programme allows all staff and contractors to raise any concerns about the groups An effective system of operational and financial business practices, condentially.
The programme controls, including the maintenance of qualitative is monitored by the audit committee and ensures financial records, is an important element of the that the groups general counsels contact details are groups internal control.
The system of internal widely distributed among its operations and sites, control provides reasonable rather than absolute and highlighted periodically to staff and contractors, assurance that the groups business objectives will to allow any person who has information regarding be achieved within the risk tolerance levels dened by unethical practice within the group to contact the the board.
The board has ultimate responsibility for the groups All reports received by the general counsel are system of internal control and risk management and treated in confidence and are either investigated by discharges its duties through determining the risk the general counsel or referred to an appropriate line appetite of the business and its risk tolerance, as manager or the internal audit function for investigation detailed in the risk management section on page 181 and resolution, depending on the seriousness of the of this annual report, as well as overseeing the risk information received.
The general counsel has sole management strategy and ensuring that management discretion as to how to conduct any investigation and is responsible for maintaining the established which external advisers to utilise.
The groups executive committee develops and monitors the internal control The audit committee considers the whistleblowing procedures in place to be appropriate for the group.
environment and also oversees risk management However, these procedures are periodically reviewed including the identification of risks and development by the audit committee to ensure that appropriate and implementation of risk mitigation plans.
The safeguards to protect whistle blowers are in place executive committee has established a strategic and maintained.
In the event of any suspected fraud planning, budgeting and forecasting system against this would be investigated by internal audit and the which it monitors monthly financial and operational general counsel, and reported on directly to the audit information along with trading results and cash flow committee.
On a quarterly basis, the executive management reviews performance against budget The audit committee reviews the outcomes of such and forecast along with financial and operational investigations and has done so in the past year in reviews and analysis of material variances at local line with its responsibilities, in order to assure itself mine board meetings and also reports performance that such instances are appropriately addressed and and findings to the board.
controls in place are effective.
The audit committee reviews the internal control The company has adopted policies pursuant to process, including quarterly financial reporting, and its the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, United States Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform effectiveness on an annual basis to ensure it remains and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 Dodd Frank robust in identifying control weaknesses as well as Act, the United Kingdoms Bribery Act 2010, and to comply with SOX and internal audit requirements.
All the groups The group is focused on maintaining a sound system operations and sites, key employees, customers, of internal control, based on the groups policies, major suppliers, managers and other key stakeholders procedures and guidelines, in all operations.
have been briefed, through written notification and where possible through workshops with management, This review includes quarterly reports from the head of concerning the implication of the policies and the internal audit in respect of findings from internal control companys obligations under that legislation.
The reviews and testing, assurances obtained in relation to company continues to work with its external legal the certications required under SOX necessary for the counsel regarding the effects of the Dodd Frank Act and any applicable regulations which have been companys NASDAQ listing and other assurances from published.
regular management reviews as appropriate.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 179 Responsibility for implementing Directors reports Audit committee RepoRt continued INTEGRATED APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT Provides oversight to the risk management process.
Board of directors Responsible for risk strategy and audit and management within the committee parameters of the group strategic business plan and ensuring that the risk management process is effective.
Executive committee Integrated business plan Risk ownership linked to long and control term strategy Business units Continuous and Operational Audit and integrated risk business assurance over risk management reviews against management and embedded in objectives, KPIs internal control operational activities and budgets OPERATIONAL BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE 1.
ANALYSIS Financial and non financial risks Risks analysed for impact recorded in corporate and and likelihood to determine operational risk registers.
EVALUATION Risk owners identified along with Risk exposure reviewed and mitigation, monitoring and controls.
Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review.
The board in conjunction with the audit committee The group carried out an assessment of its internal regularly considered the groups principal risks.
control over consolidated financial reporting The boards review focused on the effectiveness of pursuant to Section 404 of SOX and the United the groups risk management and internal control States Disclosure Rules and Transparency systems, assisted by the assessments undertaken Rules.
The management of the company, which by the audit committee.
These assessments, which is responsible under SOX for establishing and occurred both during the year and at the year end, maintaining an adequate system of internal controls evaluated the groups principal risks, taking into over consolidated financial reporting, evaluated the account the strength of the groups control systems effectiveness of that system using the Committee and its appetite for risk.
of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO framework 2013.
Based on The board delegates responsibility for day to day risk that evaluation, the management of the company management to the CEO who in turn relies on the concludes in its annual report on Form 20-F led executive committee to identify, evaluate, mitigate with the United States Securities and Exchange and monitor the key risks facing the group and to Commission SEC that the system of internal control implement the groups integrated risk management over consolidated financial reporting was effective as processes and controls.
For further details of the at 31 December 2015. executive committee please see page 20 of this annual report.
RISK MANAGEMENT The board is responsible for determining the nature The groups integrated approach to risk management and extent of the significant risks the group has to is outlined in the risk management triangle set out manage in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The groups businesses are responsible The board believes in the maintenance of sound risk management and internal control systems.
for maintaining an effective risk management and internal control environment.
These are embedded throughout the group and in the day to day operations Throughout the year the board monitored the of the mines under the direction of the executive groups risk management and internal control committee.
This includes the implementation and systems, adopting an integrated approach to risk management which covers all material financial, regular monitoring of processes and controls which operational, compliance, reputational and sustainable are designed to ensure adherence with the boards development risks.
appetite for risk and group policies and procedures.
Randgold Resou Randgold ResouR Rces ces ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 T 2015 180 180 Accountability for monitoring The groups business functions monitor adherence efforts to control issues of risk and assess whether to these processes and controls and provide these activities are sufficient for the mitigation and guidance to the business on their implementation and management of risk.
This includes ongoing reviews by key functions within the group.
The groups management Assurance over the groups risk management, internal team is actively involved in all the groups operations control and governance processes is provided by the throughout the year, including numerous visits to groups internal audit function.
the groups sites and operations, attending monthly As part of the preparation of the companys annual meetings with general managers and participating in report on Form 20-F, which is filed with the SEC, weekly meetings with other senior members of staff, the substantial risk factors are again identified and in each case to discuss critical issues affecting the set out, highlighting to the market those aspects operations, all of which are undertaken to assist in which could have a material effect on the companys reducing the groups risk exposure.
A comprehensive risk register is maintained and The board carried out an assessment of the principal presented annually to the audit committee.
The risk factors and uncertainties which it considers audit committee reviews the risk register and the risk either individually or in combination as having the management framework which the board and senior potential to have a material adverse effect on the management uses to identify and scrutinise key risks groups business, including those that would threaten facing the group, and consider whether those risks the companys business model, future performance, are appropriately managed.
The risk register and solvency or liquidity.
framework use the companys existing risk matrix and universal risk prioritisation, and rating scale, which The groups strategy takes into account known grade and prioritise perceived and known risks.
The risks but there may be additional risks unknown to risk register assists management in identifying and the group and other risks, currently believed to be assessing the key risks facing the business.
immaterial, which could develop into material risks.
Full details relating to the groups industry generally The audit committee acknowledges there are can be found in the annual report on Form 20-F filed many risks inherent to a mining business that exist with the SEC, a copy of which is available on the and the challenge is to effectively manage those companys website at www.
By its nature, the risk register is a dynamic document subject to change.
However, it is used by From its assessment the board has itemised several management to perform their duties while at the same key risks, including the Key Performance Indicators time allowing the internal audit function to review KPIs and how these are being managed.
and evaluate the activities of management in their KEY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES KPi Impact Policies and systems Mitigation External risks Risk: gold price Earnings and cash flow Long term financial The group constantly monitors volatility volatility from sudden or strategy and the market in which it operates.
Realised gold significant declines in the monitoring.
Treasury The internal treasury committees price gold price or reserves policies.
responsibilities include monitoring downgrades as a result of and discussing the gold price changes in the gold price.
which is reported to the executive committees and the board on an ongoing basis.
Forecasting and budgeting assumptions relating to commodities are prudent and monitored by the board and executive committee.
Risk: country Inadequate monitoring of inPolicies to ensure that Successful relationships with risk country political instability the group is meeting governments, senior in-country Total shareholder and changes to political the terms of its agreed officials and other key external return environment may impact the and signed licences stakeholders are built and performance ability to sustain operations.
This includes In-country monitoring delivering on and adhering to and stakeholder agreements.
The group actively management policies.
monitors regulatory and political developments as well as the country risk ratings on a continuous basis.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 181 Directors reports Audit committee RepoRt continued KPi Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: corporate, Poor management of Social and Attention is placed on maintaining social and stakeholder, community and environmental sound relations with local environmental government expectations policies.
Commitment communities and working with responsibility and a lack of corporate to improvement of these groups to enhance these Total shareholder and social responsibility communities.
The groups return may lead to the inability to communication with environmental committee, under performance sustain operations in the stakeholders.
the chairmanship of the CEO, area and impact on the continues to address these issues groups ability to expand and reports quarterly to the board.
Review of stakeholder relations at executive committee meetings.
Regular dialogue with the affected communities by senior executives.
Risk: supply Due to the remote location Stock cover policies Utilisation of local partners and routes of the groups operations with minimum levels knowledge of the region.
Buffer Total shareholder the disruption of supply set for operations.
stocks maintained including return routes may cause delays Commitment to strategic spares.
Alternative supply performance with construction and local and regional routes tested and utilised.
Financial risks Risk: production Failure to control cash costs Budgeting and Comprehensive budgeting and capital cost per ounce will result in reporting processes.
process encompassing all control reduced profits.
Failure or Project approval expenditure approved by the Cash cost per inability to monitor capital process.
Executive approval for ounce expenditure and progress expenditure policy.
all major expenditure and capital of capital projects resulting expenditures.
Commitment and Capital in financial losses and expenditure incurred made with expenditure and overspend on projects.
Review cost management of expenditure against budget on targets regular basis and reporting to the board and executive committee.
Return on capital employed Risk: Insufficient The group may be required Financial strategy, The board closely monitors the liquidity, to seek funding from the cash forecasting and groups operational performance inappropriate global credit and capital management.
Capital and cash flows against plan, along financial strategy markets to develop its forecasting and with a five-year forecast.
This and inability to operations and projects.
assists the board in understanding access funding The recent weaknesses the variety of risks facing the from global in those markets could group and the likelihood that future credit and adversely affect the groups external funding might be required.
capital markets ability to obtain financing This advanced understanding of Liquidity profile and capital resources the cash requirements of the group required by the business.
allows the board to manage the risks of sourcing funding in difficult market conditions.
The group limits exposure on liquid funds through a treasury policy of minimum counterparty credit ratings, counterparty settlement limits and exposure diversification.
Randgold Resou Randgold ResouR Rces ces ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 T 2015 182 182 KPi Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: in-country Failure to adapt to changes Use of experts to The board regularly monitors tax regimes in tax regimes and review changes in tax positions and changes in Taxation related regulations may result in legislation and tax conjunction with management fines or penalties fines, financial losses and regulations.
Regular and where necessary engages corporate reputational meetings with experts.
Failure to react government officials.
along with in-country executives, to tax notifications from Review of regulatory regularly engage with tax authorities authorities could result filings to ensure and governments to address the in financial losses or the compliance impact of any proposed changes to seizure of assets.
Inability taxation or fiscal regimes.
Where to enforce legislation over necessary the company will seek tax or incorrectly applied resolution through arbitration.
legislation could result in lengthy arbitration and loss of profits or company assets.
Operational risks Risk: sustained The groups mining Resources and The group publishes its reserve resource and operations may yield reserves committee.
calculations based on gold prices exploration less gold under actual Resources and which are lower than the current failure production conditions reserves policy.
Review at committee Resources and than indicated by its gold Adherence to industry and board level of the gold price reserves reserves figures, which standards.
during the year as well as any are estimates based on a changes to the cost of production.
number of assumptions, Close monitoring and reconciliation including mining and of resource to mined ore on a recovery factors, production continuous basis.
Risk: Failure to maintain Environmental, Formal safety system in place.
environmental, environmental and or health, safety and Recording and certification of health, safety health and safety standards security policies.
Reporting procedures and security resulting in a significant Environmental, health, in place with breaches reported incident environmental or safety safety and security to the executive committee if No significant incident or deterioration team.
Monitoring necessary on a weekly basis and incidents in safety incident rates system of incidents.
quarterly reporting to the board.
or deterioration in safety Health and safety Leadership accountability for Lost Time Injury performance standards crisis committee.
incidents throughout the group by Frequency Rates resulting in loss of life or Key health threat setting of environmental, health significant loss of time and monitoring.
disruption or damage to Use of external experts in respect operations.
of environmental, health, safety A lack of preparedness and and security matters.
A dedicated safe-guarding in relation to health and safety crisis committee the outbreak of significant is in place actively monitoring health threats such as Ebola developments in relation to the in the countries and the current health threats in areas of local communities within operation.
which the group operates could result in disruption to operations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 183 Directors reports Audit committee RepoRt continued KPi Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: risks The groups underground Annual business plan.
Transition to owner mining at Loulo associated with projects at the Loulo Monthly reporting.
gold mine managed by project team underground gold mine in Mali and at Annual strategic including involvement of industry mining the Kibali gold mine in review.
Ore tonnes the Democratic Republic owner mining team in Assistance with the underground produced of Congo are subject place at operations.
operations from a third party to the risks associated Performance of mining contractor at Kibali.
with underground mining owner mining management by executive team which may affect the project measured and monthly review of performance profitability of the group.
Board review of The Loulo gold mine in Mali continuously actual performance against plan on transitioned from contractor by executive a continuous basis.
Established to owner mining in 2015, management.
owner mining team at the Loulo gold and therefore the group mine.
Comprehensive underground may be subject to the mining business and operational risks associated with this plans in place.
The changeover to owner mining will include significant capital requirements and may affect the production levels and profitability of the operation.
The owner mining model may not yield the same performance and efficiencies as has historically been achieved.
Strategic risks Risk: lack of Lack of identification of Exploration project Continuous management, review identification of new exploration targets pipeline and evaluation and monitoring of the exploration new exploration may lead to a loss of policies.
Long term targets by management and board targets revenue and an inability to business strategy including use of the resource Resources grow and meet strategic and investment in triangle which identifies the number and reserves objectives.
of exploration targets and the stage statement and development are costly of development of an asset.
activities with no guarantee Regular review of exploration of success, but are activities by executive committee.
necessary for future growth Board review of exploration targets of the group.
Risk: failure to The loss of key staff, the Succession planning.
Executive team conducts formal attract and retain lack of internal succession HR policies, training 360 degree reviews of teams key staff and planning and the failure to and development of against performance measures.
poor succession attract appropriate staff staff.
Communication mechanisms in planning may cause short term place to ensure grievances are Staff turnover disruption to the business reported and resolved.
and employee incentive schemes in place.
Board review of manpower situation on a continuous basis, which includes review of market trends and skills analysis, as well as approval from board for action to be taken where gaps have been identified.
COUNTRY RANKING SYSTEM As part of the risk management process and in fulfilment of its risk management responsibilities, management regularly undertakes a detailed analysis of all countries in Africa based on the following formula, which is presented and agreed with the audit committee and the board on an annual basis, as outlined on page 180 of this annual report.
Ranking is dependent on a qualitative assessment combining each of the following on an equal weighting basis: n Geological opportunity n Economic and fiscal regime n Political stability n Infrastructure Randgold Resou Randgold ResouR Rces ces ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 T 2015 184 184 RANDGOLDS COUNTRY RANKING OF AFRICA Tunisia Morocco Algeria Libya Egypt Western Sahara Mauritania Mali Niger Sudan Eritrea Chad Senegal Burkino Faso Guinea Bissau Guinea Benin Nigeria Togo South Ethiopia Sierra Leone Cte Ghana Central Sudan d'Ivoire African Republic Liberia Cameroon Somalia Eq.
Guinea Uganda Kenya Congo Gabon Democratic Rwanda Republic of Burundi Congo Tanzania A Angola Malawi Zambia B C Zimbabwe Mozambique Madagascar D Namibia Botswana Swaziland Lesotho South Africa geoLogicaL oPPortunity Economic and fiscal regime n Potential for reserves of 3Moz n Clearly defined and implemented minerals policy where the State shares in, but does n Known gold potential A A not control, the mineral industry n Extensive mineralised sequences of: n Acceptable mining and tax legislation o Archaean or including reasonable royalties and free o carried rides which, if higher, are offset by Lower Proterozoic or tax holidays o Cenozoic to recent in accreted n Security of tenure and guaranteed right-toterraines island arcs mine n Readily available geoscientific data n Acceptable foreign exchange regulations n Ability to move management and technical skills in and out of the country n Close adherence to World Bank principles n Availability of foreign investment insurance n n Gold potential of 3Moz State participation required in mining industry but investors still control their n No significant new projects in the B B business pipeline n Economy stable with moderate inflation n Some known gold potential n Bribery generally not prevalent in country n n Geology is sufficiently known or Major state control of mining industry understood n Economy unstable with excessive inflation C C n Bribery common in all areas of business n n Little prospective geology No set rules or regulation n Major state interference and control of all D D aspects of the official economy n Bribery very common in all areas of business ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 185 Directors reports Audit committee RepoRt continued geoLogicaL oPPortunity Economic and fiscal regime PoLiticaL StabiLity Infrastructure n Multiparty politics established and n Good access and telecommunications links functioning accepted by general and GPRS mobile A population and world bodies A n Terrain easily traversable n No serious underlying ethnic n Access to grid power and or hydropower conflicts n Perennial water n Low crime risk n Freedom of press n Functioning civil service n n Recent multiparty politics to Reasonably easy access benevolent non-representative n Fairly good telecommunications B B government n Pipeline and dam required for water n General population acceptance of n Potential for grid power and hydro sites or government infrastructure good enough to support own n Low level of political unrest thermal power stations n n Dissatisfaction with nonNo maintained infrastructure representative government n Telecommunications uncertain and slow C C n Some political unrest and or n Access to remote areas made difficult by sporadic rebellion desert or tropical rain forest n Totalitarian government n n General unrest, severe repression, Access only practical by air civil war n Communications only possible by radio D D n No centralised controlling satellite links government n No power overaLL ranKing n Country actively targeted for exploration and development opportunities n Randgold will invest in grassroots projects A n Will establish an office and acquire goods n Will invest in existing projects where the potential for deposits that meet Randgolds criteria have been demonstrated B n Early risk must be taken out of exploration n Opportunity for joint venture to reduce risk exposure n Country in state of change n Country to be monitored if geology ranks A for improvement in the other three criteria C n No investment to be made n The possibility of change considered to be long term D Randgold Resou Randgold ResouR Rces ces ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 T 2015 186 186 Unless specific dispensation is obtained from the TREASURY MANAGEMENT audit committee, the group treasury policy ensures Cash management is a key focus for the group.
surplus cash is placed with institutions with credit ratings of: The role of group treasury is to manage and monitor n A and higher, on strict terms concerning the groups external and internal funding requirements placement duration maximum three months with as well as financial risks to support the groups no more than 5% or $12.5 million whichever is the strategic objectives.
Treasury activities are governed higher being placed with any one institution noting by policies and procedures approved by the audit that no investment can exceed $25 million: or committee and where necessary by the board.
n AAand higher, on strict terms concerning The audit committee reviewed the groups treasury placement duration maximum three months with policy in February 2016 and concluded it remained no more than 20% or $50 million whichever is the appropriate.
higher being placed with any one institution noting that no investment can exceed $100 million.
The company has put in place a treasury committee, chaired by the companys CFO, which meets on a Credit ratings and market information are continually monthly basis to review the groups treasury activities.
reviewed by the groups treasurer to ensure the Its members receive management information relating treasury committee is kept aware of all necessary to the groups treasury activities.
The committee information pertinent to ensuring effective recommends group policy, relating to all aspects of management of the groups cash resources.
The funding, management of interest rate and foreign group also uses a Fiduciary Deposit Service provided exchange exposures, hedging and other financial by Rothschild Bank International.
risk management, to the audit committee at least every six months for approval.
It also coordinates DIRECTOR DEVELOPMENT relationships with banks, rating agencies and other As part of the companys commitment to ongoing financial institutions.
The committee monitors all director training, in August 2015 members of the significant treasury activities undertaken by the group audit committee attended a workshop hosted by the companies and ensures compliance with the groups companys auditors on trends in audit committee treasury policy.
reporting, extractive industry reporting and governance.
The overall objective of the treasury committee is to effectively manage credit risk, financial risk, liquidity ACTION PLAN FOR 2016 risk, foreign currency risks and other market risks In the year ahead the committee will continue in accordance with the groups strategy.
Other overseeing financial controls and risk management responsibilities of the treasury committee include together with focusing on the committees safeguarding and managing the groups cash responsibilities in relation to financial reporting resources and funding programmes, approval and external audit effectiveness, as required under of counterparties and relevant transaction limits, the Code, to ensure the continued integrity of the ensuring an appropriate return on surplus cash companys financial statements.
resources, and the monitoring of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the group.
The COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE AND group uses conventional financial instruments to EFFECTIVENESS manage these risks.
The audit committee conducts, in conjunction with the board, a formal review of its effectiveness on an In 2015, the focus of the treasury committee was annual basis.
to manage counterparty risk with banks and other financial institutions where the group places cash At the committees review of its performance for deposits, as well as ensuring the groups cash 2015, it concluded that its performance during 2015 resources were appropriately managed to meet the was effective in carrying out its duties in accordance substantial capital expenditure requirements, given with the Code.
Details of the board and committee the lower average received gold price.
evaluation process may be found on page 219 of this annual report.
The treasury committee also oversees the groups compliance with its $400 million unsecured revolving On behalf of the audit committee credit facility Revolving Credit Facility which it put in place in December 2014.
As at the date of this annual report, the Revolving Credit Facility remained undrawn.
Jamil Kassum Chairman Audit committee ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 187
