Corporate governance maintaining high standards The board is committed to ensuring that the Group is well managed and that rigorous and transparent procedures allow this to happen.
Ian Burke, Chairman Focus in 2014 15 Dear shareholder Throughout the year under review, our board agenda has We are reporting this year against the 2012 version of the been structured to allow for regular updates on our principal UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and related strategic initiatives.
Technology has been a particular focus guidance.
3.1 chief executive during the year, with several presentations from our chief not to become chairman, Rank has since 1 June 2015 been information of cer and his direct reports on IT strategy in full compliance with the Code.
The board continues to be and cyber risk.
of the view that it is in the best interests of all shareholders that I continue in the role of non-executive chairman The introduction by the UK Gambling Commission of the notwithstanding that I was previously chief executive.
requirement for an annual assurance statement has been the subject of board brie ngs during the year and was the key Appointment of senior independent director focus of a discussion with representatives of the UK Gambling On 5 May 2015 we announced the appointment of Chris Bell Commission and the majority of the Rank board in June 2015. as senior independent director with effect from 1 June 2015.
The search for a senior independent director was led by me Compliance with the licensing objectives has also been a with the assistance of Owen ODonnell and with support particular focus following the UK Gambling Commission from other members of the nominations committee.
bringing to our attention fide ciencies in the application of Mr Bells is an excellent appointment for Rank as he has over our policies and procedures relating to anti money laundering 20 years experience in the gambling industry.
Since Mr Bells and responsible gambling.
I and all my board colleagues are appointment on 1 June 2015 and his replacement of me on fully committed to the licensing objectives and we need to the boards audit committee, Rank is now in compliance with ensure that we embed a culture into our company that takes Code provisions A.
4.1 requirement for a senior independent these issues seriously at all levels.
Enhanced due diligence and director and C. 3.1 audit committee to comprise at least three responsible gambling will be a continued focus on individual independent non-executive directors.
We are aiming for the highest standards in keeping with our commitment to upholding the licensing objectives.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 49 Governance Corporate governance continued Diversity Corporate governance statement The board, supported by the nominations committee, Introduction continues to value diversity in its broadest sense when The principal governance rules applying to UK companies considering non-executive director appointments.
In addition listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the to considering gender and ethnicity, the board will look to UK Corporate Governance Code, revised by the Financial achieve the appropriate balance of skills, experience and Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code.
knowledge of the gambling industry as a whole.
The board retains its aspiration stated in last years report to increase the This corporate governance statement covers the proportion of women on the board to 25% by 30 June 2016. following areas: Details of the gender breakdown of directors, senior structure and role of the board and its committees: management and the Group as a whole can be found on page 34 of our strategic report.
board effectiveness: audit committee: Leadership and effectiveness This year we conducted an independent external review of the nominations committee: and effectiveness of the board for the first time.
Further details of finance committee.
that review can be found on pages 53 and 54.
The board agreed a number of actions following the review and areas of focus The report of the remuneration committee is set out separately in the directors remuneration report on pages 62 to 77. over the coming year will be individual director evaluation and development, the boards engagement with strategy and the Compliance with the Code development of leadership.
Save in relation to Code provisions A.
3.1 chief executive not to become chairman, A.
4.1 requirement for a senior Relations with shareholders The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that independent director and C. 3.1 audit committee to comprise at least three independent non-executive directors, the board satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
During the year the board, through its remuneration committee con rms that it has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 30 June 2015.
Please see pages 52 chairman, conducted an extensive engagement with its largest shareholders, further details relating to which can be found and 55 for an explanation as to why the board has not complied with Code provisions A.
All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general meeting which is taking place at 11am on Thursday, This corporate governance statement forms part of the 15 October 2015 at our Maidenhead headquarters.
directors report and accordingly is approved by the board and signed on its behalf by the company secretary.
Certain Conclusion I would like to take this opportunity to extend my gratitude parts of this corporate governance statement have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, to all my board colleagues for their contributions this year.
We have had some excellent debates conducted with openness and for compliance with the Code, to the extent required.
I would also like to thank in particular In this corporate governance statement the following Shaa Wasmund, who will not be seeking re-election at the abbreviations are used: forthcoming annual general meeting, for her contribution since she joined the board in November 2012.
FCA Financial Conduct Authority Guoco Guoco Group Limited Ian Burke, Chairman Hong Leong Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad 19 August 2015 Structure and role of the board and its committees The board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The boards main responsibilities and the key actions carried out during the year are set out below.
The board delegates certain matters to committees and delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to the executive directors.
50 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Speci c responsibilities are delegated to our four board Code main principles committees audit, remuneration, nominations and finance.
Leadership They report to the board and operate within fide ned terms The role of the board of reference, which can be obtained from our website at Board composition www.
com en investors corporate-governance ourAs at the date of this report, the board consists of: committees.
html or by writing to the company secretary.
a non-executive chairman: The executive directors conduct the Companys business five independent non-executive directors: within clearly fide ned limits delegated by the board and two executive directors the chief executive and the subject to those matters reserved to the board.
Board meetings Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion of The names and biographies of all directors are published on pages 46 to 47. strategy, trading, financial performance, regulatory affairs, responsible gambling and risk management.
Key board responsibilities The board is responsible for: There were eight scheduled meetings during the year and one further meeting.
Group strategy, objectives and policies: During the period under review, the boards committees also internal controls and risk management: met regularly to discharge their duties.
general and long-term progress of the Group within the political, economic, environmental and social setting In exceptional circumstances when a director is unable to of the day: attend a meeting, their comments on brie ng papers are given in advance to the relevant chairman.
sound governance, health and safety, and environmental policies: The directors attendance at board meetings during the year is financial performance, annual budgets and business plans: recorded in the table below.
It shows the number of board meetings attended by each director compared with the number board and company secretary appointments: of board meetings that director was eligible to attend.
major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments: senior management structure, remuneration and succession: annual and half-year financial results and interim management statements: responsible gambling and ethical behaviour: board committees and their terms of reference: and investor relations.
Board meeting attendance Board Attendance Name member since Eligibility to attend Notes Chris Bell Jun 15 n a Mr Bell joined the board on 1 June 2015.
Henry Birch May 14 9 9 Ian Burke Mar 06 9 9 Clive Jennings Jul 11 9 9 Lord Kilmorey May 12 8 9 Lord Kilmorey was unable to attend one meeting due to unavoidable unforeseen circumstances.
Owen ODonnell Sep 08 9 9 Tim Scoble Apr 10 9 9 Shaa Wasmund Nov 12 8 9 Ms Wasmund was unable to attend one meeting due to unavoidable unforeseen circumstances.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 51 Governance Corporate governance continued Insurance and indemnity take responsibility for Group health and safety policies: The Company has arranged insurance cover and indemni es make sure the Group complies with all relevant legislation: and directors in respect of legal action against them to the extent lead ongoing communication with employees.
Neither applies in situations where a director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Non-executive directors The directors are satis ed that there are proper procedures in Con icts of interest place to ensure that: The directors have a statutory duty to avoid con icts of interest.
In accordance with our articles of association, we they are receiving accurate and clear information for the have adopted a policy and procedure for managing and, if proper execution of their duties: appropriate, authorising actual or potential con icts of interest.
the Groups objectives, policies and strategies are consistent with enhancing shareholder value: Directors are required to disclose any other new appointments before agreeing to take them on, so that any con icts of they are able to keep the Groups progress and development interest can be identi ed and addressed.
under review: they have an opportunity to challenge constructively, and The board also assesses con icts of interest before making any help develop, proposals on strategy: new appointments.
there are effective communications with all shareholders: and Division of responsibilities the Groups governance is effective.
When in 2014 Mr Burke indicated that he would like to retire from executive management of the business, the board Senior independent director wished to retain the established line of communication with As senior independent director since 1 June 2015, Chris Bell Guoco and was pleased when Mr Burke agreed to become is available to talk with shareholders who have questions non-executive chairman on the appointment of Mr Birch as or concerns.
Led by the senior independent director, the chief executive on 6 May 2014.
The board is aware that this non-executive directors met and reviewed the chairmans is not in compliance with Code provision A.
3.1, but believes performance without him being present.
it to be in the best interests of all shareholders at this time.
The Company was without a senior independent director There is a clear division of responsibilities for the chairman from the resignation of Colin Child on 18 March 2014 to and chief executive.
the appointment of Chris Bell with effect from 1 June 2015.
The Company was therefore not in compliance with Code Chairman provision A.
4.1 for 11 out of the 12 months of the year The chairman is charged to: under review.
manage the business of the board, preside over meetings Effectiveness and seek prompt and appropriate decisions: The composition of the board work with the company secretary to ensure directors receive Size and structure accurate and clear information for the proper execution of The nominations committee keeps the boards size and their duties: structure under review.
The nominations committee is of the oversee effective communication with shareholders: view that the board is well balanced, providing a collective keep the Groups progress and development under review: competence to suit the Groups developing needs and an appropriate blend of executive and non-executive skill.
We ensure the chief executives Group objectives, policies and believe that all our directors are suitably quali ed to help strategies are consistent with lasting shareholder value: steer and challenge Group strategy.
evaluate the board and its committees: and More than half of our board excluding the chairman ensure the Groups governance is effective and in line is independent: with best practice.
Name Independent Appointed Chief executive Chairman The chief executives role is to: 1 Ian Burke n a Mar 2006 manage and promote the Groups long-term pro table Executive development: Henry Birch no May 2014 exercise stewardship of intellectual property, human and Clive Jennings no Jul 2011 financial resources and ensure that the relevant policies Non-executive are implemented: Chris Bell yes Jun 2015 Lord Kilmorey yes May 2012 plan strategy and prepare objectives and policies for Owen ODonnell yes Sep 2008 board approval: 2 Tim Scoble yes Apr 2010 ensure action is taken to achieve strategies, objectives and Shaa Wasmund yes Nov 2012 policies, as approved by the board: 1 Ian Burke was originally appointed to the board on 6 March 2006.
He resigned ensure objectives, policies and strategies are adopted for from the board on 28 June 2011 and was reappointed on 3July 2011.
On 15 July each Group business, that appropriate budgets are set for 2011 he became executive chairman.
On 6 May 2014 he resigned his role as chief executive and became non-executive chairman with effect from that date.
them individually, that their performance is monitored, 2 Until 30 April 2012, Tim Scoble was not independent he was an appointee of and that guidance is given when needed: Guoco, a parent company of Ranks largest shareholder, which currently owns 219,120,221 ordinary shares in the Company, representing 56.09% of voting rights.
Tim Scoble has been independent since 30 April 2012 when he ceased to be an appointee of Guoco.
52 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The principal terms and conditions of appointment for each Information and support director are set out on pages 67 to 68 and pages 71 to 74, and Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman is responsible their interests in Rank shares are detailed on page 74. for ensuring that directors receive accurate and timely information on all relevant matters.
Board diversity During the period under review, the nominations committee The directors receive a monthly report of current and forecast has continued to consider the issue of diversity in the context trading results and treasury positions, as well as updates on of the board and is mindful of the bene ts that diversity brings shareholder views.
The board is committed to improving further its A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board gender diversity and to ensuring that all appointments are discussion.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to cover made regardless of gender.
Details of the gender breakdown of topical issues and developments.
directors, senior management and the Group as a whole can be found on page 34 of our strategic report.
Comprehensive brie ng papers on substantive agenda items are circulated at least five working days before meetings where Committees possible.
These contain detailed background information, The composition and chairmanship of our board committees thus freeing time for informed debate.
are considered annually and have been considered during the period under review.
We operate an open-door policy between the board and the management team.
Members of the management team Commitment also make regular board presentations to ensure a ow of The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are operational information reaches the directors in a timely way.
outlined on page 68 of the directors remuneration report.
All non-executive directors are required to disclose their other All directors have access to the advice and services of the signi cant commitments both before appointment and company secretary and, if required, may take independent following subsequent changes so that the board can satisfy advice and or professional development at the itself that each of the directors has suf cient time to allocate Companys expense.
to the Company to discharge his responsibilities effectively.
Evaluation Neither Henry Birch nor Clive Jennings currently holds any An independent external review of the effectiveness of the directorships outside the Rank Group.
Executive directors are board was conducted this year by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom not permitted to take up non-executive directorships outside Review Limited.
Neither Dr Long nor Boardroom Review the Group.
Limited provides other services to the Group or has any other connection with the Group.
The evaluation was conducted Development over a period of three months including interviews with each Induction of the directors and the company secretary, observation of a During the period under review, one new non-executive board meeting and a review of selected board papers.
director was appointed to the board.
The non-executive director was given a comprehensive induction programme, which included meetings with senior management and site Evaluation process visits accompanied by the finance directors of the casino and bingo businesses.
Skills and knowledge Review of Observation Evaluation selected All directors are given regular written brie ngs with regard to of board interviews board matters affecting the Groups businesses, such as the political meeting papers and regulatory environment.
Additionally, at the boards request, the Groups auditor keeps the board abreast of key impact items such as political and regulatory initiatives with regard to narrative reporting, executive remuneration, going concern and the role of the audit committee.
Discussion document Directors are invited to identify to the company secretary or human resources director any desired skills and knowledge enhancements that they require so that appropriate training can be arranged.
Presentation Additionally, once a year, the directors have an opportunity of discussion to review and agree their respective training and development document at a board meeting needs during their one-on-one meetings with the chairman.
Areas of focus THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 53 Governance Corporate governance continued The review was designed to help the board prepare for the Relations with shareholders future, by building on existing strengths, and identifying and Dialogue with shareholders The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that preparing for the challenges ahead.
The review considered the balance, skills and experience of the board and focused satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
As at 30 June 2015, 56.09% of our shares were held by our majority on three key aspects: board environment, the work of the board and use of time.
shareholder, Guoco, and a further 36.84% were held by 20 institutional shareholders.
Following completion of the review, the board received a Given that Rank is a 56.09% subsidiary of Guoco, the chief discussion document outlining an independent view of the boards strengths and future challenges.
Dr Long also discussed executive and other members of Ranks executive management team meet with representatives of Guoco four times a year the findings of the evaluation individually with each director, the company secretary and the performance of each director to discuss business performance and other issues that could impact their financial statements.
Dr Long then presented her discussion document to the February 2015 board meeting.
The board We speak with our institutional shareholders and city considered and discussed Dr Longs observations and analysts through a programme of investor relations and regular recommendations following which a number of actions were meetings with principal shareholders conducted by our chief agreed for incorporation into the way that the board would executive, finance director and director of investor relations.
operate during the remainder of 2015 and beyond.
Areas of focus over the year will be individual director evaluation and All directors receive reports to keep them in touch with development, the boards engagement with strategy, and the shareholder opinion.
During the period under review, a total development of leadership.
of 48 meetings with 41 shareholders was attended by one or more of the chief executive and finance director.
Additionally, in June 2015 the chairman conducted individual interviews with each board member to discuss their Formal brie ngs on shareholder opinion are circulated to contributions during the year.
The non-executive directors the board after presentation of the Companys interim and met privately to discuss the effectiveness of the board and its annual results.
committees during the year and agreed that, overall, the board The principal method of communicating with all our had functioned effectively during the period under review and shareholders is via our corporate website, www.
that its committees continued to discharge their duties in line Information can be provided in paper format but only when with their respective terms of reference.
shareholders speci cally request this.
The chairman together with two non-executive directors Constructive use of the annual general meeting evaluated the performance of the chief executive by means All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general of a questionnaire and meeting.
The outcome was then fed meeting AGM.
Private investors are encouraged to back to and discussed with the other non-executive directors.
The chairman and chairmen of the audit The non-executive directors also met privately without the and remuneration committees are all present.
chairman present to review the performance of the chairman.
Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions Re-election contained in the notice of meeting, which is published at least All new directors must stand for election at the first annual 20 working days beforehand.
The business presentation, voting general meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, at results and a summary of the questions and answers are made intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors available at www.
com, or in printed format on request.
are engaged for an initial period of three years and must stand for election and re-appointment in the same way.
Ranks Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or articles of association require one third of serving directors appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual to retire annually.
and other general meetings of the Company.
Chris Bell was appointed to the board since the last annual Next AGM general meeting and is therefore required to submit himself The 2015 AGM will be held on 15 October 2015 and the full for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting on text of the notice of meeting, together with explanatory notes, 15 October 2015. is set out in a separate document at: www.
html The Company complies with the Codes requirement for annual re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
If you have elected for paper information, this will be enclosed Therefore all other directors will submit themselves for with your hard copy of this annual report.
Shareholders re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting wishing to change that election may do so at any time by with the exception of Shaa Wasmund.
Ms Wasmund will contacting the Companys registrar contact details are on be retiring from the board with effect from the conclusion page 134 and on our website at www.
com en investors of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
html 54 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Audit committee Owen ODonnell, O Chairman of the audit committee C Chairman Audit committee membership and meetings Owen ODonnell Since 1 June 2015 the audit committee has consisted of three independent non-executive directors.
However, following the Other committee members resignation of Colin Child on 18 March 2014, the Companys Chris Bell, Tim Scoble chairman joined the committee on a temporary basis pending Role of the audit committee the recruitment of a new independent non-executive director.
The audit committee assists the board in reviewing and That was in breach of Code provision C. 3.1 which requires maintaining internal controls, the management of risk the audit committee to consist of at least three independent and our compliance with the law and regulation.
It has responsibility for and reviews the effectiveness of the The board is satis ed that the committee has recent and Groups internal audit function.
It also assesses the integrity of all public financial statements A rolling agenda and topical items determine the committees before their submission to the board, ensuring we present a discussions.
The committee met formally three times in the fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups period under review.
At the invitation of the audit committee chairman, the chief Any changes in accounting policies are authorised by executive, finance director, company secretary, director of the committee, which also reviews the objectivity and group financial control and director of internal audit normally effectiveness of our external auditor every year.
attend committee meetings, as does the external auditor.
Other directors are encouraged to attend at least one committee The committee oversees the Companys internal code of meeting a year at which the auditor is present.
conduct and monitors our whistleblowing procedures through which employees may, in con dence, raise concerns The internal and external auditors also meet the about possible improprieties in areas of financial reporting, committee without executive directors and other financial control and other ethical matters.
The committee is regularly updated on accounting and legislative changes through brie ng papers from the auditor, finance director and others.
The committees terms of reference are available from the Companys website at: www.
com en investors corporategovernance terms-of-reference.
html, or by writing to the company secretary.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 55 Governance Corporate governance continued Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since Eligibility to attend Notes Current committee members Chris Bell Jun 15 1 1 Mr Bell joined the board and the audit committee on 1 June 2015.
Owen ODonnell Sep 08 3 3 Mr ODonnell has been committee chairman since 22 April 2014.
Tim Scoble Oct 13 3 3 Former committee members Ian Burke Jun 14 2 2 Mr Burke stepped down from the audit committee on 1 June 2015.
Risk management To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, As part of its risk oversight role, the board as a whole, operational and compliance issues, the board has put in place including the audit committee, satis es itself that the formally fide ned lines of responsibility and delegation necessary steps are taken to foster a culture of risk-adjusted of authority.
The board strives Established procedures are geared to identify, evaluate and to ensure that risk management is an integral component of manage signi cant risks and to monitor the Groups businesses the Groups corporate strategy, culture and value generation and performance.
The boards view is that risk management should be neither an impediment to the conduct of business nor a mere This framework is reviewed annually and is designed to supplement to the Groups overall compliance programme.
safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets, while ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
The risk management process is reviewed by the audit Senior management is responsible for making sure that committee on behalf of the board and monitored regularly controls and procedures are enforced and that the board is by the Groups risk committee which comprises the chief informed of any risks and control issues that arise.
executive, finance director, company secretary, chief information of cer and director of internal audit.
Other Financial control: there is a comprehensive system for employees attend meetings of the risk committee by reporting financial results to the board, a budgeting process invitation, as appropriate, depending on the speci c agenda incorporating an approved budget and bi-annual re-forecasts.
items to be discussed at the meeting.
The risk committee The chief executive and finance director hold monthly review meets monthly and its primary purpose is to: meetings with brand managing directors and their respective review the corporate risk register: directors of finance.
carry out deep-dive reviews into speci c departments Financial reporting control: detailed policies and and functions risk registers: and procedures are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability provide a forum to remedy lack of progress in making of financial reporting.
Strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic plans Key areas of focus for the risk committee during the year annually and regularly reviews strategic progress.
under review are set out on page 21 of the strategic report.
Operational control: our procedures are laid down in detailed Compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 and HM Treasury manuals and reinforced by employee training.
Each business Financial Sanctions forms part of the general risks and unit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key controls and internal controls reported to the board.
Our audit committee report weaknesses to operational management.
also reviews managements bi-annual reports on anti money Compliance control: Across the Group we have teams whose laundering, internal and external fraud, whistleblowing, responsibility it is to ensure day-to-day adherence to all code of conduct and inadvertent breaches of legislation.
legislation to which our operations are subject, including During the year the audit committee has also continued to gambling, anti money laundering and health and safety.
review progress against managements information security Senior executives and the internal audit team are responsible improvement plan.
They report to the audit committee and the board.
In light of the fide ciencies in the Internal control framework application of the Groups policies and procedures relating Our system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, to anti money laundering and responsible gambling that were brought to our attention by the UK Gambling Commission, and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It controls, rather than the board has commissioned an externally-led review of our eliminates, any human error, deliberate misconduct or anti money laundering and responsible gambling controls to uncertain events.
ensure that they are t for purpose.
56 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The executive directors and senior management meet Code of conduct regularly with representatives from the businesses to address Rank has an employee code of conduct that sets out our values financial, human resource, risk management and other and principles and guides everyones behaviour.
It upholds our reputation and relationships, inside and outside the Company.
At its meetings in the year to 30 June 2015 the audit committee examined the effectiveness of the Groups The audit committee is responsible for monitoring approach to internal control by reviewing changes to management reports on employee conduct, including controls made during the year: approving a revised 2014 15 our whistleblowing procedures.
internal operational audit plan, a revised corporate and Whistleblowing systems audit cycle: and reviewing the structure of the Rank aims to maintain a culture of openness, honesty internal audit department and the level of internal audit and opposition to fraud, corruption and unethical business resource.
The committee also reviewed action plans to conduct.
It is Ranks policy to implement and maintain address failings or weaknesses identi ed in the Groups procedures that promote ethical business conduct and system of internal control.
reduce the risk of fraud and other irregularities, enabling This process has been in place during the period and up to the early detection, investigation and reporting.
Rank has a fraud date of approval of this annual report and financial statements.
and unethical business conduct whistleblowing policy which It has been reviewed by the board and meets the Financial sets out the ways in which employees can voice their concerns Reporting Councils internal control guidance to directors.
about suspected fraud, corruption or unethical business conduct.
During the period under review two frauds came to Internal audit light within Grosvenors retail casino business in circumstances The audit committee has responsibility for the internal audit where it would appear that others not directly involved must function and the director of internal audit reports directly potentially have had suspicions that they never raised with to the chairman of the audit committee.
This has led management and the committee to team provides an objective and continuous stream of data question whether Ranks whistleblowing policy is suf ciently and opinion on risk management and control.
Although reports are made under the Groups it is entirely independent of the business operations under whistleblowing policy, the matters which are the subject of audit and line management is to the chairman of the audit the reports are rarely related to fraud or unethical business committee.
The audit committee agrees the annual audit plan conduct, and are more often than not related to human and reviews audit reports produced by the internal audit team.
Managers in the businesses are being consulted The scope of the audit coverage is fide ned by the audit as to how best to address the cultural resistance to using the committee and covers all systems, procedures and activities whistleblowing policy for matters for which the policy is of all operations, departments and functions within the intended.
Once the feedback has been received, where Group, including projects, policy developments, financial appropriate, changes to the policy and its communication and nonfinancial processes.
will be made to see whether this encourages a better quality of whistleblowing.
The internal audit team seeks to determine whether the system of risk management, control and governance processes, Financial reporting and signi cant financial issues as designed and operated by management, is adequate and The committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies functioning in such a manner as to ensure that: have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The committee risks are appropriately identi ed and managed in line with reviews accounting papers prepared by management which the Companys risk appetite: provide details of the main financial reporting judgements.
operations are run with suf cient and adequate controls The committee also reviews reports by the external auditor and in an ef cient and effective manner: on the full year and half year results which highlight any signi cant financial, managerial and operating information issues with respect to the work undertaken on the full year is accurate, reliable and timely: audit and the half year review.
employee actions are in compliance with policies, standards, Signi cant accounting issues considered by the committee procedures, and applicable laws and regulations: and during the year included: relevant laws, rules and regulations are complied with EBITDA multiples and discount rates applied for in the operation of the business.
impairments: To embed control further, the scores used by internal audit impairment review of intangible assets and property, to monitor each business units controls performance also plant and equipment: affect operational management bonuses.
review of provisions, including those in relation to The director of internal audit makes regular presentations property leases and indirect tax: to the audit committee and reporting includes comparative review of ongoing direct tax issues: and trend analysis.
During the period under review the audit treatment of exceptional items: and committee had three closed sessions with the director of contingent assets and liabilities.
internal audit without executive management being present.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 57 Governance Corporate governance continued Audit committee activity in 2014 15 The committee noted that the Group has a number of property In addition to those items detailed under internal control, risk leasehold contracts and was of the view that appropriate management and financial reporting and signi cant financial provision had been made against those property leases where issues, during the year under review the committees business the unavoidable costs exceed the expected economic bene t has included the following: expected to be derived from the property.
Further details of the property lease provision held are disclosed in note 22 and the full and half-year results: exceptional adjustments made in the current year are disclosed principal judgemental accounting matters affecting in note 4. the Group: In addition, the committee was also updated in respect of finance systems strategy: certain property leasehold contracts where the rights and external audit plans and reports including auditor obligations but not the legal titles have been transferred to observations and recommendations as a result of controls third parties such that the Group remains potentially liable testing completed for the purposes of the 2013 14 and in the event of default by the third party.
Should default occur 2014 15 audits: then the Group would normally have recourse to one or more internal audit plans and key reports: guarantor entities.
These leasehold contracts include 11 remaining property leases, with lease durations of between information security and cyber risk: 17 months and 98 years and a current annual obligation external and internal theft and fraud: net of sub-let income of approximately 1.1m, that were anti money laundering: transferred concurrent to the 211m sale and leaseback in 2006.
The committee noted the risk associated with the litigation: transfer of such property leasehold contracts but that the whistleblowing and code of conduct reports: and Group has not to date been noti ed of any default, or impact of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code intention to default, in respect of the transferred leases.
September 2014 edition which will apply to the Further details of this contingent liability are disclosed in note 32.
Company with effect from its 2015 16 financial year.
Indirect tax provisions the committee received and Signi cant financial judgements considered an update paper covering the Groups indirect tax Before recommending the half-year and full-year financial issues, including the Groups various VAT claims, at both the statements to the board for approval, the committee reviewed half and the full year.
The committee noted the adverse the following key accounting issues that rely on signi cant decision of the Supreme Court in favour of HMRC regarding financial judgements.
claims for overpaid VAT on certain types of amusement machines between 2002 and 2005 but that a full provision Impairments for goodwill and inde nite life assets not has been made for amounts not yet repaid.
subject to amortisation, the Group performs an annual impairment review.
In addition, the Group also reviews The committee was of the view that managements best assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation for estimate of the liability was appropriate.
Details of the events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the indirect tax liability recognised are disclosed in note 22. carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit may Direct tax the committee received and considered an update not be recoverable.
The Group considers each venue to be a cash-generating unit and therefore the review covers paper covering the Groups ongoing direct tax issues at both the half and full year.
These issues cover both discontinued in excess of 150 individual cash-generating units.
operations with historic tax audits and continuing operations The committee reviewed managements impairment review where tax returns submitted have been, or are likely to be, process including, where applicable, the cash ow projections challenged by the relevant tax authority.
The committee and discount rates used to derive a value in use.
This included considered the 16.9m release from income tax payable considering the impairment reversal arising in Spain of 1.6m following the successful conclusion of a transfer pricing where performance at the club in Girona has seen a sustained dispute relating to a discontinued operation in an overseas performance recovery following the closure of a competitor.
The committee was of the view that the release and the disclosure of a potential further refund The committee was of the view that the net impairment of between 2.5m and 4.0m in respect of amounts previously reversal recognised of 1.9m was appropriate.
Further details paid as a contingent asset were appropriate.
of the impairment charges and reversals are disclosed in note 4.
The committee was of the view that managements best The committee also considered the impairment review estimate of the liability for the remaining issues was undertaken in relation to the investment in subsidiary appropriate.
See note 18 for details of the direct tax undertakings held by the Company, including the liability recognised.
appropriateness of the key inputs into the valuation model.
The committee was of the view that the impairment Contingent assets and liabilities the Group, as noted in reversal of 259.9m was appropriate.
the areas of signi cant judgement above, has had to consider the accounting treatment of a number of potential assets and Property lease provisions at both the half and the full year, liabilities.
This requires management to apply judgement in the committee considered the Groups approach to property assessing the probability of occurrence or non-occurrence of lease provisions, the discount rates applied and managements one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the recommendations, in order to satisfy itself how management control of the Company.
came to its best estimate of property lease obligations.
58 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The audit committee receives tri-annual updates from Auditor Having reviewed their performance throughout the period, management, incorporating legal advice as appropriate, on the accounting treatment for potential assets and liabilities our conclusion that Ernst & Young LLPs effectiveness is in relation to disclosure or recognition.
The committee is of satisfactory enables us to recommend their reappointment the view that management has appropriately treated such for 2014 15. items in the financial statements.
Details of the contingent The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, is willing to continue in of ce assets and liabilities disclosed are included in notes 31 and and a resolution that they be re-appointed at a remuneration 32 respectively.
to be agreed by the audit committee will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The audit committee also considers whether these signi cant financial judgements should be classi ed as exceptional.
Relations with external auditor Principal risks and uncertainties Our auditor is employed to express an opinion on the financial statements.
It reviews the systems of internal financial control Details of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, and the data contained in the financial statements to the and what we are doing to address them, can be found on pages 21 to 23 of the strategic report.
Additionally, details extent necessary to express its opinion.
of the financial risks that the Group faces can be found in It discusses with management the reporting of operational note 20 to the financial statements.
results and the financial position of the Group, and presents Committee evaluation findings to the audit committee.
The committees performance during the period under review Information was assessed via con dential questionnaires with committee The directors in of ce at the date of this report are not aware members and other individuals who support its work.
Results of any relevant information that has not been made available were then reviewed by the committee chairman and discussed to the auditor and each director has taken steps to be aware with the board.
The board agreed that the committee of all such information and to ensure it is available to the continued to perform effectively.
Assessment of effectiveness of external audit process Non-audit work Agreement on how best to assess the effectiveness of the The audit committee oversees the nature and amount of any external audit process was discussed between the audit non-audit work undertaken by the auditor to ensure they committee chairman, the finance director, company secretary remain independent.
Consequently, the committee is and director of group financial control and a proposal agreed.
required to approve in advance all non-audit services That proposal was put to the other audit committee members above a speci ed value.
Part of the effectiveness of the external audit When seeking external accountancy advice in relation to process was assessed by the use of a questionnaire which posed non-audit matters, the Groups policy is to invite competitive questions in relation to different aspects of the external audit tenders where appropriate.
It is also the Groups policy to process.
Those individuals employed by Rank most actively balance the need to maintain audit independence with the involved with the day-to-day aspects of the audit provided desirability of taking advice from the leading rm in the area responses to certain questions asked of them.
The views of of advice being sought and the desirability of being ef cient.
Rank employees involved with the audit were considered, discussed and summarised and provided to audit committee Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP throughout members for discussion amongst themselves.
the period under review can be found in note 3.
In addition to a private meeting between the audit committee Rank has used the services of other accounting rms for chair and the external audit partner, the committee met with non-audit work during the period under review.
the auditor following each audit committee meeting in a Rank is satis ed that the objectivity and independence of closed session without executive directors to assess the the audit partner and the audit engagement team have not objectivity and accuracy of financial reporting and to hear been compromised by the fees paid for the non-audit work any other observations that the auditor had to make.
undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP.
Audit tendering Assurance The committee has noted the requirements regarding The internal audit function and the external auditor presented audit tender and rotation of the audit engagement partner.
their findings to the committee in August 2014 and in January The Companys external audit was most recently tendered and June 2015.
We con rm that action plans to remedy during 2009, resulting in a change of external auditors and identi ed weaknesses in internal control have been in place the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the Companys throughout the period.
annual general meeting on 22 April 2010.
There was a change of external audit partner following completion of the 30 June Ernst & Young LLPs audit report is published on page 84.
The committee will continue to give consideration to the timing of the next formal tender in the light of the then prevailing regulatory requirements.
The committee does not anticipate that a tender will be undertaken during the 2015 16 financial year.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the choice of external auditors.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 59 Governance Corporate governance continued Nominations committee Chairman Board and committee composition Ian Burke The nominations committee keeps the boards size and structure under review.
The nominations committee is of the Other committee members view that the board is well balanced, providing a collective Chris Bell, Henry Birch, Lord Kilmorey, Owen ODonnell, competence to suit the Groups developing needs and an Tim Scoble, Shaa Wasmund appropriate blend of executive and non-executive skill.
Appointments to the board We believe that all our directors are suitably quali ed to The nominations committee is comprised of the chairman, all help steer and challenge Group strategy.
independent non-executive directors and the chief executive.
The composition and chairmanship of our board committees The formal terms of reference of the nominations committee are considered annually and have been considered once during are available on our website at www.
com en investors the period under review.
html, or by written request to the company secretary.
Board diversity During the period under review, the nominations committee The nominations committee is responsible for identifying has continued to consider the issue of diversity including relevant talent and nominating all board appointments with due gender diversity in the context of the board and is mindful regard for the bene ts of diversity on the board, including gender.
of the bene ts that diversity brings to the board.
During the year under review the committee met formally on The boards diversity policy is to recruit the best candidate six occasions.
having regard to the skills and experience required, but with The main issues which the committee discussed during the a mind to diversity, including gender diversity.
The directors have con rmed their stated aspiration to achieve 25% female year under review were: representation on Ranks board by 30 June 2016. the search for a senior independent director: Details of the gender breakdown of directors, senior succession planning: management and the Group as a whole can be found chairmanship and membership of board committees: on page 34 of the strategic report.
board composition: and board diversity.
Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since Eligibility to attend Notes Chris Bell Jul 15 n a Mr Bell joined the nominations committee on 1 July 2015.
Henry Birch Jul 14 6 6 Ian Burke Jun 14 6 6 Mr Burke has been committee chairman since 25 June 2014.
Lord Kilmorey Feb 14 5 5 One meeting related to Lord Kilmoreys reappointment and he was therefore not eligible to attend that meeting.
Owen ODonnell Feb 14 6 6 Tim Scoble Sep 11 6 6 Shaa Wasmund Feb 14 4 6 Ms Wasmund was unable to attend two meetings due to unforeseen circumstances.
60 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Finance committee Appointment of senior independent director Chairman The key focus of the committee during the year has been to Ian Burke identify and recruit a new non-executive director to act as the Other committee members Companys senior independent director and to join the audit Henry Birch, Clive Jennings, Tim Scoble committee of the board.
For this purpose, the services of an external search rm, Zygos LLP, were engaged to assist in The board has established a finance committee which is identifying potential candidates.
Zygos LLP is independent comprised of the chairman, chief executive, finance director and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct and one non-executive director and which is authorised to VCC on gender diversity and best practice.
The approve capital expenditure and make nancing decisions for nominations committee appointed a sub-committee the Group up to authorised limits.
On behalf of the board, the consisting of the chairman and another non-executive finance committees role includes setting, monitoring and director to review the external search rms long list of reporting on: potential candidates and agree a short list.
operating plans: All board members were invited to meet two of the shortmonthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial listed candidates and following a further meeting of the performance against budget: and committee, one candidate, Chris Bell, was recommended to year-end forecasts.
The board was unanimously in favour of appointing Chris Bell to the board to act as senior The committees terms of reference are available from the independent director and to serve on the audit committee Companys website at www.
com en investors corporateof the board and he was so appointed with effect from 1 June governance terms-of-reference.
html, or by writing to the 2015 for an initial term of three years subject to election at company secretary.
the forthcoming annual general meeting and thereafter The committee met on 11 occasions during the year and the subject to re-election at subsequent annual general meetings.
issues it discussed included insurance cover and uninsured Re-appointment of a non-executive director risks, estate management issues and commercial agreements The nominations committee considered the re-appointment within its delegated authority.
of Lord Kilmorey as a director.
By the time of this years annual general meeting in October 2015, Lord Kilmorey will have served as an independent director for almost three and a half years.
Lord Kilmoreys diverse experience in commerce and industry, and in Government, are attributes which are of signi cant bene t to the Rank board and therefore, on the recommendation of the nominations committee, the board Committee meeting attendance re-appointed Lord Kilmorey until the conclusion of the Committee Attendance Companys 2016 annual general meeting subject to reName member since Eligibility to attend Notes election at the Companys 2015 annual general meeting.
Henry Birch May 14 11 11 Senior independent director Ian Burke Mar 06 11 11 Mr Burke has As senior independent director since 1 June 2015, been committee Chris Bell is available to talk with shareholders who have chairman since questions or concerns.
Led by the senior independent 15 July 2011. director, the non-executive directors met and reviewed Clive Jennings Jul 11 11 11 the chairmans performance without him being present.
Tim Scoble Sep 11 10 11 Mr Scoble was unable to attend one meeting due to unforeseen circumstances.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 61
