Corporate Governance Statement The full Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available at The Company is premium listed on the www.
London Stock Exchange and this Report The principal activities undertaken by the Board are set out is prepared with reference to the over the following pages.
A summary overview is set out in the table on Board focus areas in 2015 on page 53.
Financial Reporting Councils UK Board meetings Corporate Governance Code the Code Board meetings are structured in an open atmosphere conducive in effect for the financial periods to challenge and debate.
Board meetings are held regularly with all Directors expected to attend, with five scheduled meetings normally beginning on or after 1 October 2014. held each year.
At least one of these meetings is held in an overseas Group business location to provide the Board with the opportunity This Report sets out how the Company to meet with local management and structured to include a formal has applied the Main Principles of the and comprehensive site visit to an operating unit.
The 2015 meeting was held in Delhi in India and included visits by the Board to the Code throughout the year ended R&D office in Gurgaon, a Save the Children field visit, and time spent with external speakers covering local geopolitical, industry- 31 December 2015 and as at the date related and commercial issues.
Further details can be found on page of this Report.
Additional meetings, which may be held by phone or consist of written resolutions, are held throughout the year to consider topics that may have arisen outside the formal agenda structure.
Directors receive papers several days in advance of meetings and are Leadership expected to devote sufficient time for review prior to the meeting taking place, enabling them to fully engage with, challenge and Board responsibilities stimulate productive discussion.
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Group, focusing on its governance with the highest regard to the principles At the conclusion of every formal Board meeting, the Chairman holds of the Code.
As part of its responsibility, the Board oversees the a session with the other Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive development of the Companys strategic aims, ensures appropriate Directors present, providing further opportunity for the Non-Executive processes are in place to manage risk and monitors the Companys Directors to challenge and critique the performance of the Executive financial and operational performance against objectives.
Directors and help drive future agenda items.
The Board consists of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who Operating and financial reports from the Executive Directors are together have collective accountability to RBs Shareholders as well discussed at each Board meeting.
When appropriate, detailed as responsibility for the overriding strategic, financial and operational presentations may be made by non-Board members on material objectives and direction of RB.
The Board manages the overall leadership of the Group with reference Committees of the Board to its formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
This schedule The Board has established three Board Committees to assist in the is reviewed annually with the last review undertaken in November 2015 execution of its responsibilities.
These are the Nomination Committee, as part of the Boards performance evaluation and broadly covers: Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Each Committee matters which are legally required to be considered or decided by operates under terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of the Board, such as approval of RBs Annual Report and Financial reference are reviewed regularly and can be found on the Companys Statements, declaration of dividends and appointment of new website.
The current Committee membership of each Director is shown Directors: on pages 46 to 49.
The Board has also established two supporting matters recommended by the Code to be considered by the Board, management committees, the Disclosure Committee, which ensures such as Terms of Reference for the Board and its committees, review accuracy and timeliness of disclosure of financial and other public of internal controls and risk management: announcements, and the Executive Committee, which is RBs key management committee.
compliance with regulations governing UK publicly listed companies, such as the UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Nomination Committee and the Prospectus Rules: and The Nomination Committees key objective is to make recommendations matters relating to developments in or changes to the Groups to the Board on suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and strategic direction, material corporate or financial transactions.
its Committees and regularly review and refresh their composition to ensure that they comprise individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to effectively discharge their responsibilities.
Membership during the year and further details are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 60.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, and is responsible for ensuring effective internal financial control and risk management.
Membership of the Audit Committee and details of its activities during the year are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 61 to 65.
54 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Remuneration Committee The Chief Executive Officer The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making The CEO is principally responsible for the day-to-day management of recommendations on remuneration policy to the Board in respect RB, in line with the strategic, financial and operational objectives set of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management and by the Board.
He chairs the Executive Committee, consisting of the ensuring that remuneration policy and practices reward fairly and CEO, the CFO and senior management executives, who together are responsibly.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the responsible for execution of the Companys strategy and achieving its year is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 70.
More details about the members of the Executive Report on pages 66 to 84 details the current and proposed policy on Committee are set out on pages 50 to 51. remuneration and sets outs Directors remuneration, Non-Executive Directors fees and share ownership.
The CEO has the power delegated to him by the Board to enable him to carry out his duties efficiently.
Such powers include delegation of the Board attendance at scheduled meetings day-to-day management of the business of the Company to each of the In 2015, there were five scheduled Board meetings plus two additional Officers of the Executive Committee, acting individually or as a group meetings.
There were four regular Audit Committee meetings plus or sub-committee: acquisition and disposal of businesses and two additional meetings and four regular Remuneration Committee unbudgeted capital expenditure projects subject, in each case, to a 50 meetings.
No formal Nomination Committee meetings were held million limit: and instructing advisors and instigating legal proceedings during the year and the business of the Committee was dealt with by on behalf of the Company in respect of matters for which no further the Board during its private sessions.
The table below sets out the Board authority is required.
attendance by individual Directors at Board, Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings which each Director was eligible to attend.
Mary The Senior Independent Director Harris and Judy Sprieser were unable to attend one meeting each due The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the to a long standing commitment.
Directors who were not members of Chairman and is available to the other Directors and Shareholders who individual Board committees were also invited to attend one or more have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO meetings of those committees during the year.
Board Audit Remuneration The Executive Directors Adrian Bellamy 5 of 5 4 of 4 The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities for the operation of RBs business as determined by the CEO.
Every Director Jaspal Bindra 5 of 5 4 of 4 may request that any matter not delegated to the CEO should be Nicandro Durante 5 of 5 4 of 4 discussed by the Board and that no action should be taken before the Board has decided on the matter.
1 Peter Harf 5 of 5 Mary Harris 4 of 5 The Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors share full responsibility for the execution Adrian Hennah 5 of 5 of the Boards duties, are independent of management and are Pamela Kirby 5 of 5 therefore able to provide critical input into Board decisions through their contributions to Board discussions and their roles on, and Ken Hydon 5 of 5 4 of 4 Chairmanship of, Board Committees.
With a wealth of experience Rakesh Kapoor 5 of 5 and skills between them, they are well placed to help develop the Companys long-term strategic, financial and operational goals, as well Andr Lacroix 5 of 5 4 of 4 as constructively challenge and scrutinise the day-to-day management Sue Shim 5 of 5 4 of 4 of the business against the performance targets and objectives set.
Christopher Sinclair 5 of 5 The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for setting appropriate Judy Sprieser 4 of 5 3 of 4 levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors, and ensuring performance targets are continually monitored to be closely aligned Doug Tough 5 of 5 4 of 4 with Shareholder interests.
They are also critical to the development of Warren Tucker 5 of 5 4 of 4 succession planning and appointment and removal of senior executives and management.
Peter Harf resigned from the Board on 21 December 2015.
The Non-Executive Directors are also responsible for ensuring that The Chairman adequate internal controls and risk management systems have been The roles of the Chairman and the CEO have a clear division of developed and implemented, that these are continually monitored responsibilities, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The and suitably robust and that financial information is accurate and Chairmans principal responsibility is for the effective running of transparent.
the Board and chairing Board and Shareholder meetings.
Effective leadership and governance of the Board allows the Directors to focus Company Secretary on the key strategic, financial and operational issues, to make sound The Company Secretary takes responsibility for compliance with all judgements and be comfortable to challenge any uncertainties, relevant governance requirements and assists the Chairman with as well as ensuring a transparent approach in communicating ensuring Board procedures are followed.
The Company Secretary in his with Shareholders.
or her role further advises the Board on changes to relevant legal and corporate governance regulations.
All Directors have access to the The Chairman leads the annual performance evaluation process of the Company Secretary and the Board is collectively responsible for the Board and its Committees, which in 2015, in light of the additional appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Non-Executive Director appointments, was structured to closely follow and improve upon the previous years recommendations.
An external evaluation, in line with good corporate governance practice, will take place in 2016.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 55 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Company recognises the developmental advantages of an external Effectiveness non-executive role on a non-competitor board and Executive Directors are permitted to seek such a role, provided that they do not take on Board composition and succession planning more than one non-executive directorship in, or become the Chairman The Board regularly reviews its composition to determine whether it of, a FTSE 100 company.
Adrian Hennah is a Non-Executive Director of has the right mix of skills and background to effectively perform its RELX Group PLC and RELX NV.
The Board also approved his duties.
As part of this review, it also considers internal executives and appointment as a Non-Executive Director of Indivior PLC in November Senior Management positions to ensure a proper breadth of talent is 2014, prior to the demerger of that entity from RB the following developed.
The Board has appointed Directors from a wide variety of month, and Adrian remained a Director throughout 2015.
It was business backgrounds to provide it with a strong balance of skills and announced on 11 March 2016 that he would step down from the experience.
The Board is comprised of the Chairman, and 11 NonIndivior Board with effect from 11 May 2016.
Executive Directors who, together with two Executive Directors, help maintain a solid, collective understanding of the Company and its daily The 2015 evaluation of the Boards performance during the year business.
More details about the current Board members can be found concluded that the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors on pages 46 to 49. continue to devote sufficient time to carrying out their duties to the Company.
Each Director standing for re-election has individually Andr Lacroix acts as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board has provided assurances that they remain committed to their roles and can determined that the majority of Non-Executive Directors excluding the dedicate sufficient time to perform their duties.
Accordingly, the Board Chairman, who was independent on appointment are independent as recommends that all Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions to recommended by the Code.
The Board has deemed Judy Sprieser and re-elect the Directors at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Ken Hydon independent, notwithstanding that they have served in excess of the recommended nine years, by virtue of their behaviour and Director inductions and training judgement, which remains challenging and unbiased.
RB has established a comprehensive induction programme for new Directors.
The programme covers RBs business, legal and regulatory The Shareholder agreement between the Company and JAB Holdings requirements of Directors and includes one-to-one presentations from B. V. JAB at the time of the merger in 1999 entitled JAB to nominate senior executives across the Group covering topics such as strategy, Board Directors.
A holding in excess of 20% or 10% of the Companys investor relations, taxation, Internal Audit, supply and the Companys ordinary shares entitles JAB to nominate two Directors or one Director categories of Health, Hygiene and Home.
JABs current holding is below this amount and there is has several aims and serves multiple purposes.
It provides new Directors currently no nominated Director on the Board.
with an understanding of RB, its businesses and the markets and regulatory environments in which it operates, provides an overview of In accordance with the Code, every Director submits him or herself for the responsibilities for Non-Executive Directors of RB and builds links to election re-election at every Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
Incoming Board members will also have due diligence meetings with external legal advisors and meet with the Board diversity Groups External Auditor.
The Boards recent appointments have further built on its already existing foundation of diverse professional, ethnic and national Site visits are arranged to the Groups operations to gain an insight into backgrounds, as well as improving on our gender balance.
This diversity the business, and also form part of the annual Board meeting cycle reflects itself throughout our business and helps to ensure that we with at least one meeting held at an offsite business location.
cater fully to our varied spectrum of consumers across all markets that we serve.
Details of diversity through the workplace can be found on The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Directors page 24. receive suitable training to enable them to carry out their duties.
As part of their role, Directors are also expected to personally Board balance and independence identify any additional training requirements they feel would On appointment, Non-Executive Directors are made aware and are benefit them in performing their duties to the Company.
Ongoing required to confirm they will allocate sufficient time to their role to training arranged by the Company covers a wide variety of sectordischarge their responsibilities effectively.
They are also required to seek specific and business issues, as well as legal and financial regulatory agreement from the Chairman before taking on additional developments relevant to the Company and the Directors.
Training commitments, and to declare any actual or potential conflicts of may be provided by way of briefing papers or presentations, as well interest.
Non-Executive Directors are engaged under the terms of a as meetings with senior executives or other external sources.
Initial terms of appointment are for three years with one months notice, with all Directors standing for re-election at Board support every Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
The Company Secretary is responsible for organising Board meetings, as well as collating any papers for the Board to review and consider.
The Nomination Committee has principal responsibility delegated to it Board and Committee papers, as well as past meeting minutes are for making recommendations to the Board on new appointments as accessible to all Directors through a secure and confidential electronic well as the composition of the Board and its committees.
The Board document storage facility.
This facility is maintained by RBs Secretariat and each of its members are confident they individually have the function and additionally holds other information which the Chairman expertise and relevant experience required to perform the functions or Company Secretary may deem useful to the Directors, such as press required of a Director of a listed company.
releases and pertinent Company information.
All of the Directors have individual access to advice from the Company Secretary and a procedure exists for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their duties.
56 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Conflicts of interest and indemnity process was praised and it was acknowledged that both induction Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 to and ongoing training were considered important and necessary to avoid interests, direct or indirect, which might conflict with the understand strategic priorities and keep abreast of governance issues.
Under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association, such conflicts can be authorised by the Board who at The Chairmans performance evaluation was led by the Senior all times take responsibility for ensuring compliance with laws and Independent Director with input from his fellow Non-Executive regulations on corporate governance, and that Directors potential Directors, the CEO and the CFO and each individual Directors conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed.
performance was evaluated by the Chairman through one-to-one discussions with each of them.
The Remuneration Committee also The Company indemnifies the Directors and Officers of the reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors and other Company and any Group subsidiary to the extent permitted by members of the Executive Committee.
CA 2006 and the FCA Listing Rules in respect of the legal defence costs for claims against them and third party liabilities.
The The 2015 review of the Boards performance and that of its indemnity would not provide cover for a Director or Officer if that committees was positive and concluded that the Board, its individual was found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Committees and individual Directors were continuing to perform Additionally, Directors and Officers liability insurance cover was effectively.
Recommendations were taken on board and would be maintained throughout the year at the Companys expense.
addressed and reassessed as part of the 2016 external evaluation.
Evaluation of the Board The Board annually reviews its own and its Committees performance Accountability and effectiveness.
In 2015, due to the significant addition of new Directors to the Board, it was determined more appropriate to conduct Risk management the process internally, to allow them to bed in.
In line with the Code The Board has ultimate responsibility for preparing the Annual Report requirements, an independent external review will take place in 2016. and Financial Statements.
RB has implemented robust internal controls to safeguard the integrity of both the Group and its subsidiary Financial The 2015 evaluation built on the outcomes of the internal and external Statements and ensures that adequate verification processes are in evaluations carried out in the previous two years.
The process centred place to enable it to confirm that the Groups Financial Statements on a detailed questionnaire agreed with the Chairman around the present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of RBs topics of Board processes, composition, Director induction and training, position and prospects, balanced with Code requirements.
The Board strategy, risk assessment and engagement with Shareholders which all considers that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as Directors were asked to complete and return, together with relevant a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide sufficient comments or points they wished to raise.
The recommendations from information for Shareholders to be able to assess the Companys the external evaluation performed by Egon Zehnder International position, performance, business model and strategy.
in 2013 were also reviewed and consideration given to Board best practices.
The Board reviewed and discussed the results, which RBs finance function, headed up by the CFO, has implemented a indicated overall that Directors were committed, with a willingness number of policies, processes and controls to enable the Company to to spend more time on Board discussion of issues and to become review and fully comply with changes in accounting standards, financial more involved in development of strategy and risk.
The induction regulations and recognised practices.
These processes are kept under review on an ongoing basis.
Multiple teams including consolidation and financial accounting, together with technical support, ensure both internal and external developments are reviewed and responded to.
The Group also maintains a Finance Policy Manual setting out the Board visit to India required standards of financial reporting and approvals across the Group and its operating units, including a structured process for the appraisal and authorisation of any material capital projects.
In November 2015, the RB Board travelled to Delhi, India for its annual off-site The basis for the preparation of Group Financial Statements is set out on page 102 under Accounting Policies.
The Companys External Auditors Report setting out its work and Local business insights reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 90 to 96.
The terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the External Auditors work are Tour of the R&D facility in Gurgaon agreed by the Board and set out in the Auditors engagement letter.
Trade visits More information on the Groups significant risks and strategy for growth and achieving targeted goals is detailed in the CEOs statement DvM and Indian landscape and the Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 8 to 45.
Presentations by leading experts on Indian The Directors Statement of Responsibilities on page 88 details the consumerism and the e-commerce revolution Going Concern Statement as required by the Listing Rules and the Audience with the Minister of Finance Code, and the Directors responsibility for the Financial Statements, for Review of the DvM operating area disclosing relevant audit information to the Auditors and for ensuring Meetings with local management, with a focus on that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
internal financial controls by the Audit Committee Save the Children Visit to school in South Delhi to view RBs work with Save the Children on its Stop Diarrhoea initiative, in particular behaviours and attitudes to hand washing Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 57 Corporate Governance Statement continued Risk appetite The third strand is provided through independent review by both The Board has overall responsibility for complying with the Code and Internal and External Audit teams, who challenge the information the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, and assurances provided by the first two strands.
This review Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
It ultimately gets reported back to the Board, via the Audit oversees the internal controls established, and monitors their Committee, with action taken to address matters identified.
More effectiveness, in managing risk.
The sectors and environment within details on the Audit Committee and its duties can be found on which RB operates are dynamic and fast moving, and the controls are pages 61 to 65.
The Groups compliance controls further include continually kept under review to minimise the potential exposure to operating an independent and anonymous whistleblowing facility, risk.
The system is designed to evolve and manage, rather than annual management reviews and providing training specific to eliminate, risks to RBs business objectives, and the Board relies on individual needs within the business.
The Board is also provided with these controls in so far as they are able to provide reasonable, but not reports on the effectiveness of these controls to ensure full absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups oversight of the business.
major risks and mitigating factors are detailed on pages 40 to 45.
RB has a strong culture of support for its internal controls.
Function and As part of its risk control, RB regularly evaluates principal risks to operating management meet to discuss performance measured against achieving objectives, the likelihood of such risks materialising and strategic aims and goals, with risks and risk controls incorporated into determining the ability of the Group to cope with the circumstances the discussions.
More detail on the Groups principal strategic risks and should they occur.
In doing so, it also looks to actions that can be uncertainties can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 40 to 45 as taken, controls that can be implemented and processes that can be well as principal operating risks set out on pages 158 to 164. followed to reduce the chances of risk events taking place, mitigating the potential impact and ensuring that the cost of doing so is RB has developed a Code of Conduct on which employees must proportionate to the benefit gained.
This training includes reminding employees of the Groups strict policies on reporting of any adverse events in relation Internal control to its products, as well as the availability of an independent and Internal control processes are implemented through clearly defined anonymous whistleblowing facility.
Together they help ensure a solid roles and responsibilities, delegated by the policies to the executive backbone of ethical, responsible behaviour amongst RBs employees, team and senior management.
providing an extra layer of support to the internal controls with an intrinsic awareness of RBs policies on corporate responsibility.
RB operates three strands in monitoring internal control systems and managing risk: Statement of compliance with the Code The Board confirms that reviews and monitoring of the appropriateness Management ensures the controls, policies and procedures are and effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk followed in dealing with risks in day-to-day business.
Such risks management throughout the financial year and up to the date of are mitigated at source with controls interwoven into the relevant approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements have been systems and processes.
Supervisory controls either at management satisfactorily completed in compliance with provisions C. 2.1 and C. 2.3 level or through delegation ensure appropriate checks and of the Code with no significant failings or weaknesses identified.
verification takes place, with any failures dealt with promptly During the year, the Directors undertook a robust assessment of the and awareness raised in order to review gaps in existing controls.
principal risks facing the Company, including those that could threaten Throughout RB, a key responsibility for any line manager is to RBs business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
For ensure the achievement of business objectives with appropriate further details, see the principal risks section on pages 158 to 164. risk management and internal control systems.
Each function and operating unit has its own management which The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6 and the information is acts as a second line of oversight and verification.
This level sets included in the section on Takeover Directive on page 85. the local level policies and procedures, specific to its own business environment, subject to Group policy and authorisation.
They further act in a supervisory capacity over the lower level management implementation of controls.
The financial performance of each function and operating unit is monitored on a monthly basis against pre-approved budgets and set against forecasts, developed higher up the management chain, and ultimately overseen by the executive management and the Board.
58 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Analysis of RBs Shareholder register is made available to the Board and Relations with Shareholders reports prepared by the Groups brokers and public relations advisors are provided to all Directors after every significant corporate event and The Board values effective communication with on other relevant occasions.
Shareholders and is committed to regular, clear On a monthly basis, and at each Board Meeting, the Board receives and transparent dialogue.
This includes formal updates from the CEO on the Companys share price movements, major share transactions and the views of both investors and analysts on the presentations of full year and interim results, Groups performance.
together with quarterly statements on the All Shareholders may speak with the Companys investor relations Companys key performance indicators, with team and the Company Secretary: and a section of the RB website is roadshows to meet with institutional investors dedicated to Shareholders.
The Chairman is also available to discuss governance and strategy with major Shareholders and does so regularly following results announcements.
throughout the year, providing feedback on the meetings to the rest of the Board.
If required, key executives, along with the Senior RB maintains regular dialogue with trade analysts and fund managers Independent Director, are available to discuss matters of concern.
to ensure a widespread understanding and availability of information regarding developments for the Group, as well as the industry sectors Annual General Meeting which RB serves.
The Executive Directors and the Director of Investor The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to meet with its Relations meet regularly with institutional Shareholders and analysts to private Shareholders in particular, giving them an opportunity to put discuss the performance of the Group and its strategy.
Where questions to the Chairman, Chairs of the Committees and the Board.
appropriate, the views of Shareholders are also sought in relation to remuneration plans and governance issues.
All Shareholders are able to vote on the resolutions put to the meeting.
Voting is by way of poll providing each share with one vote.
Results of Feedback is presented to the Board to ensure all Directors are fully the poll are released to the London Stock Exchange and published on aware of the views of existing Shareholders, investors and analysts.
the Groups website shortly after the AGM.
Shareholder resources Website Annual Report online The Investor relations hub on the RB website provides the Board with an additional method of communicating with Shareholders.
Sustainability Report As well as the latest regulatory disclosures, the hub includes copies of the latest and previous annual reports, latest share Corporate website price information and copies of previous investor presentations, as well as notable key calendar dates.
The website is available atwww.
Shareholders can also access our Sustainability report and associated policies on the RB website at www.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 59
