Nomination Committee Report Our ongoing focus is to maintain strong, balanced leadership and to harness and develop the wealth of experience and skills available on the Board to promote RBs long-term success.
Adrian Bellamy Chairman Role of Nomination Committee The Committees focus during 2015 and at the start of this year has The main purpose of the Committee is to make recommendations to been the maintenance of strong, balanced leadership, an introduction the Board of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and its to RB and guidance to new Board members, the composition of the Committees, as well as regularly reviewing and making recommendations Boards Committees and their Chairs, as well as succession planning on their composition and membership.
The Committee also has for the positions of Chairman, CEO, and senior management.
The responsibility for reviewing succession plans for the Board and key Committee considered that it was essential to retain the wealth of management roles, and for authorising conflicts of interest.
knowledge and experience on the Board following Peter Harfs resignation in late 2015, as well as stability.
Therefore, following Composition thorough consideration, it was determined that Judy Sprieser and Ken During the year the Nomination Committee was made up of the Hydon should be asked to remain with the Company and as Chairs of Chairman, who also chairs the Committee, the CEO and all of the the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively for the time Non-Executive Directors.
Members of the Nomination Committee and being to mentor their fellowDirectors.
any persons attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own nomination.
Diversity The Board and Nomination Committee consider diversity, including Activity gender, amongst its members to be a key factor in steering the Given that the composition of both the Board and the Nomination Company to strategic and financial success.
RBs customers are from Committee was largely the same, during 2015 the Board integrated wide and diverse backgrounds and so diversity is pivotal to the Nomination Committees delegated duties into its regular meetings understanding and best serving our customers.
with matters being considered as part of diarised Board discussions and during private sessions, without the presence of management or There is a strong commitment to engendering an all-embracing culture the Company Secretary.
of acceptance throughout the business and the Board recognises the need to set the tone from the very top.
This commitment is clearly In late 2014 and early 2015, the Nomination Committee retained Egon demonstrated in the diverse composition of the Board, which during Zehnder International as external search consultants in respect of the the year comprised six nationalities and four women.
search for new non-executive candidates.
EZI is an independent executive search firm which has no other current connection with the Focus for 2016 Company.
An extensive search was carried out and a shortlist drawn The Board will continue to focus on maintaining strong leadership and up.
Following meetings with each of the Chairman, the Senior to develop its Directors and update and refresh their skills and Independent Director, the Deputy Chairman and the Executive knowledge, with particular focus on the culture and operating model Directors, Chris Sinclair, Pam Kirby and Mary Harris were identified that has made RB a successful multinational company.
The Nomination as exceptional candidates and recommended to the Board for Committee will focus specifically on composition of the Boards appointment on the basis that they met the criteria required, which committees and Chairman and Committee Chairperson succession.
included international and industry expertise and a strong cultural fit.
Adrian Bellamy Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22 March 2016 60 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
