Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IS COMMITTED TO COMPLYING WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES AND TO MAINTAINING HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Graham Cope Company Secretary Dear Shareholder The Board continues to believe that the I am delighted to introduce the Corporate balance of Non-Executives and Executive Governance report outlining the Companys Directors has worked well.
A number of Board approach to corporate governance.
As outlined meetings have been held in a number of the elsewhere in the report, the Board remains Divisions during the year and have included committed to high standards of corporate open discussion with the Management Teams governance.
This report on corporate on land acquisition, sales outlets, sales and governance sets out and explains in clear terms our product.
The Blenheim house type from the Premier Heritage Collection the processes in place which are essential for There have been no changes in corporate delivery of long-term success, while ensuring governance best practice during the financial Introduction The Board that the Company complies with all applicable year ended 30 June 2015.
This report sets out the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, two further Executive laws and regulations and, of course, meeting Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors.
the requirements of our shareholders and their Our 2015 Annual General Meeting will be held Council www.
uk and describes how the governance framework representative bodies.
on Tuesday, 10 November 2015 and you will Steve Morgan, as Chairman, is responsible for leadership of the Board and is applied by the Company.
find the Notice of Annual General Meeting and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The role of John Tutte, This report has been prepared and approved by some Explanatory Notes at the end of this The Directors have considered the contents and requirements of the as Group Chief Executive, ensures that there is a clear division of the Board and, on behalf of the Board, I confirm Annual Report.
For those who wish to attend Code and believe that throughout the year ended 30 June 2015, the responsibilities at the head of the Company between the running of the that during financial year ended 30 June 2015, the Board looks forward to meeting with you.
Company has been compliant with the provisions of the Code.
Board and the operational responsibility for the running of the Companys the Company was compliant with the business as required by the Code.
This balanced approach also ensures no provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Graham Cope one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Code the Code other than as set out Company Secretary elsewhere in the Annual Report.
This report The governance structure is set out below: also explains what the Board of Directors actually does and describes how it is responsible for setting the codes and values of the Company, thereby ensuring that the Main Board Company is run in the best interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders and how it interacts with its shareholders and explains the Companys strategic goals and performance Non-Executive Team Executive Management Team against them.
Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Independent Non-Executive Directors Group Regional Chief Executives Group Human Resources Director Group Sales & Marketing Director Group Development Director 58 59 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
