Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Defined benefit pension scheme valuation The Committee has a formal policy in respect of Audit Independence THE COMMITTEES PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES LIE IN REVIEWING The Committee receives details of the IAS 19R the work of the external Auditors.
The purpose PwC were appointed Auditors in 2003 having Employee Benefits valuations carried out at of this policy is to ensure that the Auditors succeeded  who THE GROUPS FINANCIAL REPORTING, OVERSEEING THE APPOINTMENT each reporting date for management by the objectivity and independence is maintained by were appointed in 1987.
The current Audit actuary who advises the Company and the ensuring both that the nature of any non-audit Partner from PwC commenced his tenure AND WORK OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS AND REVIEWING REDROWS underlying assumptions.
A sensitivity analysis work undertaken and the level of fees paid does following the conclusion of the year ended INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESSES is also provided for its consideration.
The not compromise the Auditors position.
Committee also receives details of the At its meeting in February 2015 the Committee Appointments in respect of non-audit work triennial independent scheme valuation report considered whether to retain PwC as auditor require the prior approval of the Committee prepared by the Scheme Actuary and reviews and concluded that, in view of the quality of within an established budget.
In addition, no key judgement areas made including relevant service provided and the cost effectiveness of work can be undertaken by the external actuarial advice that has been received.
In the work carried out, it would be appropriate to Auditors in any area where there is any addition the Committee also reviews the retain them.
identifiable risk that the work of an individual findings of PwCs testing of pension scheme within the external Audit firm or the external assets and liabilities.
The Committee does not currently have a Audit firm generally could conflict or formal policy on re-tendering of the external Main Activities During the Year compromise the quality, objectivity or audit.
However, following the Order of the The Committee followed a programme which independence of any audit or compliance Competition and Markets Authority in relation is structured around the annual reporting cycle work undertaken for the Group.
to FTSE 350 companies which will require the and received reports from Internal Audit, the The external Auditors are not indemnified Company to change its statutory auditor by external Auditors and management.
Nick Hewson by the Company nor has the Company the date of the Annual General Meeting prior Chairman of the Audit Committee The principal activities undertaken are purchased liability insurance for them.
to June 2020, the Committee will be shown below: considering its policy over the next 12 months.
Committee Membership and Meetings statements.
The Committee Chairman also Auditors as well as the nature and scope of Details of fees paid to PwC are disclosed The four Members of the Committee are met with the Engagement Partner of the the external Audit and its effectiveness.
Independent Non-Executive Directors and external Auditors and the Finance Director The Committees Terms of Reference the Board believes the Committee has the Operations to discuss Internal Audit matters.
are available on the Companys website appropriate level of experience to fulfil its The Group Company Secretary acts as www.
September 2014 A review of the full year 2014 results including the Annual Report and Accounts and a report from the external Auditors: and Terms of Reference.
Consideration of the Group risk assessment process and a going concern review.
Audit Committee Reporting on The Group Finance Director and Finance Responsibilities and Terms of Reference February 2015 A review of the 2015 half-yearly report and going concern including a report from the external Auditors: Significant Issues Director Group Services attend meetings by The key responsibilities of the Committee are: A review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee: The primary areas of judgement which were invitation and both were present at all the monitoring the integrity of the financial considered by the Committee and how these A review of the proposed external Audit strategy for 2015 and associated fees: meetings in the year ended 30 June 2015.
The statements of the accompanying reports to were addressed is set out below.
external Auditors,  LLP A review of the effectiveness of the external Audit process: the shareholders and Corporate Governance PwC, and the Finance Director Operations A review of the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors: and Net realisable value of inventories Statements including reviewing the findings who has responsibility for Internal Audit, were The Committee receives a paper prepared by A review of the Committees effectiveness.
of external Auditors: also in attendance at all meetings.
management at each reporting date outlining June 2015 A review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness the approach taken by management to assess The Committee met three times in the year A review of the Risk Register: of systems for internal control, financial the net realisable value of inventories together ended 30 June 2015 and a summary of the reporting and risk management: A review of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy: with details of sites with significant areas of principal activities of the Committee are reviewing and overseeing the effectiveness judgement.
The Group Finance Director and A review of the Groups Anti-Bribery Policy: listed below.
of Internal Audit: Finance Director Group Services attend A review of internal controls across the whole business: and Detailed papers and information were meetings by invitation to answer any making recommendations to the Board in An update on Internal Audit, its strategy and a review of the Internal Audit timetable for 2016. circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings questions the Committee may have.
relation to the appointment and removal of September 2015 A review of the full year 2015 results, including the Annual Report and a report from the external Auditors: and to allow proper consideration of the matters external Auditors and approving the The Committee also annually reviews the consideration of the Group risk assessment process and a going concern review.
The Committee also met remuneration and terms of engagement: and internal controls that are in place and reviews privately with the external Auditors and with reviewing and monitoring the external Audit the findings of PwCs testing of controls and Internal Audit following the final audit and the process and independent activity of the processes for estimating as well as the review of the year ended June 2015 financial adequacy of disclosures that management propose to be made in financial statements.
Table of Attendance Name Role Attendance at Meetings Nick Hewson Chairman 3 3 Debbie Hewitt Member 3 3 Liz Peace Member 3 3 Sir Michael Lyons Member 2 2 64 65 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED the Board requires each Director in its Internal Controls Risk Register Whistleblowing operating divisions to complete an annual The Board of Directors recognises its overall The Group formally reviews its prioritised Risk The Group has a widely publicised statement on Corporate Governance and responsibility for the Groups system of Register every year.
The updated and reviewed Whistleblowing Policy which enables related party transactions.
The statement internal control and for monitoring its Risk Register is then discussed and approved by employees and other stakeholders to raise is designed to provide assurance that effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process the Committee.
In addition, the Executive Board, concerns in confidence.
The Committee has Group policies and procedures are being for identifying, evaluating and managing through its regular meetings, reviews key areas arranged to receive reports on all occasions implemented and complied with in all significant risks.
However, in reviewing the of risk on an ongoing basis and considers when such issues are raised under this policy.
material respects: effectiveness of internal control, any internal whether the internal controls identified in The Whistleblowing Policy is formally reviewed control system can only provide reasonable relation to those risks remain appropriate.
and approved each year by the Committee.
In addition, key functional Directors but not absolute assurance against material complete a Principal Controls SelfInsurance Bribery Act misstatement or loss.
Assessment Questionnaire which is reviewed The Board has appointed an experienced broker Following the introduction of the Bribery Act by the Board to assist in improvements in Key business activities, including finance, land to advise on and co-ordinate all insurance 2010 the Company put in place a policy on the control framework: acquisition, product design and procurement matters across the Group and they liaise bribery and corruption for all employees to and information technology are controlled closely with appropriate Redrow personnel strictly adhere to.
The Company Secretary a weekly business report WBR comprising by the Executive Directors.
All activity is at Head Office and within the Divisions and ensures that the policy is complied with, sales funnel information, gross margins and organised within a defined structure with report directly to the Group Finance Director.
updates the policy, procedures and company order book is produced for the Group, each formal lines of responsibility, designated code of practice as and when required and Division and each site and circulated across Risk Management and Internal Audit authority levels and a structured reporting provides regular reports to the Committee.
the Group: The Groups Risk Register defines controls framework.
A formalised reporting structure The Bribery Act policy is formally reviewed a monthly reporting pack is circulated in as prevent or detect and identifies owners is established within Redrow.
The Executive and approved each year by the Committee.
advance and reviewed at each of the Main, for each high level risk.
Feedback on the risks Directors, the Company Secretary, Regional Executive and Divisional Board meetings.
and controls is actively encouraged and is Training is given to all staff to highlight the Chief Executives, Group Human Resources Annual budgets are set, with actual facilitated by links on the Groups intranet various forms of bribery and all new staff attend Director, Group Sales and Marketing Director performance compared against the to ensure the risks listed remain relevant an induction course at the commencement of and Group Development Director the annual budget: and accurate.
The Register itself is regularly their employment which includes a section Executive Board meet monthly to discuss maintained and is reviewed by the relating to bribery and the implication on the Groups key issues, risks and opportunities.
preparation and regular updates of Committee annually.
individuals and the company of an act of The Divisions also hold monthly board Strategic Plans: bribery either given or received.
Every year, meetings which are attended on a rotational a policy and procedures manual which covers The Internal Audit strategy is discussed with through its new internal e-learning facility, basis by the Executive Directors.
all the significant aspects of the Groups PwC and discussed and agreed with the each employee will be required to complete a operations and describes the systems and Committee.
Suggested control improvements The key features of the Groups internal mandatory compliance test which reminds controls that are to be applied: and and any control weaknesses identified are controls are as follows: each employee of their obligations.
The cornerstone daily statements of a reconciled cash defined authorisation levels exist over key of the Internal Audit work undertaken is the Performance evaluation position identifying significant payments areas such as land purchase, the placing of Business Process Reviews.
A risk-based The Committee completed a performance are prepared, rolling cash flow forecasts are orders and contracts and staff recruitment: programme was designed based on the Risk evaluation during the Financial Year and a prepared and forecast banking covenant Register.
The Business Process Review report was presented to the Committee compliance are tested.
a comprehensive prioritised Risk Register programme looks to provide assurance to the and discussed.
The Committee was found which is regularly reviewed and presented to Group, by testing internal controls and to be effective and it was concluded that Throughout the year, the Committee has the Audit Committee: reviewing specific risks, as well as seeking the Committee had fulfilled its remit and carried out assessments of internal control by the Groups management information out best practice and sharing it across the had in place appropriate Terms of Reference.
considering documentation from the Executive systems provide weekly updates on key Group and identifying business process Directors and the internal audit function as statistics and information in respect of sales Nick Hewson improvements.
Committee Members well as taking into consideration events since and production and the content of these Chairman of the Audit Committee receive an Executive Summary of each the year end.
The internal controls extended to weekly reports is regularly reviewed to Business Process Review report.
the financial reporting process and the 7 September 2015 ensure it remains appropriate: preparation of consolidated accounts.
The basis Redrow has an in-house Health and Safety for the preparation of consolidated accounts Department and places great emphasis on has been undertaken in accordance with the the importance of health and safety and Companys Accounting policies as set out on environment management.
The department pages 98 to 101. works closely with the Divisions to ensure The Committee therefore confirms that it is that training is provided to employees and satisfied that the system of controls has been subcontractors.
Best practice is shared and in operation throughout the financial year and appropriate actions are taken to comply with up to the date of this report.
health and safety best practice and legislation throughout the organisation: 66 67 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
