Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Audit Committee Report Maintaining the integrity of our financial reporting and the robustness of our internal controls and risk management processes continues to be our key focus.
Ken Hydon Chair of the Audit Committee Introduction At the request of the Board, the Committee has performed a review to On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit assess whether the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements is fair Committee Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2015, balanced and understandable and whether it provides sufficient which outlines the role, responsibilities and activities of the Committee information to enable the shareholders to assess the business model, during the year.
After the review, the Committee advised the Board that it was satisfied that the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Maintaining the integrity of RBs financial reporting and robustness of Statements taken as a whole, met its objectives.
internal controls and risk management processes continues to be our key focus.
This enables the Committee to endorse the results, provide At the end of the year effectiveness assessments were completed, based reassurance to the Board and be able to say that the Annual Report and on questionnaires, for Internal Audit, External Audit and the Audit Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
I am pleased to report that these assessments showed that we have effective Internal and External auditors and an effective Effective delivery of RBs strategic objectives has to be underpinned by Committee.
efficient and robust risk control processes and the Committee has continued to carefully review and monitor these processes.
In addition Our Audit plans are continually evaluated by the Committee.
I can confirm to the regular agenda reviews, we paid particular attention in the year to that the Internal Audit plan was completed, with a few modifications supply risks, trade spend, legal compliance, cyber security, data protection during the year to take into account current developments, and and environmental, health & safety, commercial and reputational management responded well to the recommendations.
The Committee met with local operational management at its meetings to consider financial, legal, regulatory and The Committee recognises that an independent and effective External IT risks and controls, and also discussed internal control risk with local Auditor is essential and has continued to be satisfied with the work management during the Board visit to India.
A major risk assessment was carried out by PwC in the 2015 financial year.
During the year we carried out to identify the principal strategic risks and uncertainties that discussed the process for a retender of the audit.
The Audit Committee might affect the Group and how they could be mitigated.
Details are set has commenced a preselection process with a number of audit firms in out on pages 40 to 45. preparation for a possible audit tender in 2017 allowing for the appointment of a new auditor at the 2018 AGM.
The timing of the tender This year, in addition to the Directors Going Concern assessment, a process will ensure compliance with the UK implementation of the EU longer term viability review was carried out which covered the next five requirements on auditor rotation, which in our case would mean a years, during which the current product pipeline is expected to flow change of auditors by 2020, and is expected to coincide with the rotation through to our markets.
The review included sensitivity analyses for the of the current lead Audit Partner.
realisation of key Group Strategic Risks: non-compliance of licensed products, non-compliance with quality standards, cyber security and data The Committee members possess deep experience of financial and protection, and legal non-compliance.
These risks were thought to have international business and I am grateful for their diligence throughout the the most significant effect on the long term viability of the business.
We also appreciated the enthusiastic support of management.
Committee considered the assumptions made in the viability review and During the year, the Audit Committee carried out its duties in compliance the disclosure in relation to the Viability Statement on page 40. with the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and considered developments in corporate governance and reporting with A key responsibility of the Committee is to consider the significant areas the aim of promoting best business practice.
We will continue over the of judgement and complexity in financial reporting.
The Committee has, coming year to support and work with the Board to identify, monitor with support from PwC as External Auditor, reviewed the suitability of the and mitigate potential risks through robust and appropriate control accounting policies which have been adopted and whether management procedures and to maintain good standards of governance.
has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
Ken Hydon Chairman of the Audit Committee 22 March 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 61 Audit Committee Report continued Composition Role and responsibilities Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board on the The Audit Committee forms an integral part of the Groups governance recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Membership of the framework and supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in Audit Committee during the year comprised the following five ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, internal Non-Executive Directors as set out below: controls and overall risk management process.
Name The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to do the following: Ken Hydon Chairman Jaspal Bindra Financial reporting Andr Lacroix Review the interim and full year Financial Statements before Sue Shim submission to the full Board.
Warren Tucker Consider significant legal claims and regulatory issues.
The Board considers that each member of the Audit Committee is Risk management and internal controls independent and meets the requirements of the UK Corporate Review compliance procedures and RBs overall risk framework Governance Code the Code.
The skills and expertise of each including the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
Committee member are summarised on pages 46 to 49.
The Codes Consider operational risk and control processes covering assurance requirement is for members of the Committee to have significant, providers, geographical and functional areas.
recent and relevant financial experience.
All of the members have financial, economics and or business management expertise and two Monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal of the members have held senior finance posts.
since 16 November 2006, was previously CFO of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 and Warren Tucker was previously CFO of Cobham plc Internal Audit until May 2013.
All members are expected to have an understanding of Approve Internal Audits annual plan.
the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting and Review Internal Audit activities, significant recommendations and an understanding of the Groups internal control systems.
On joining findings and related management actions.
the Committee and during their tenure, members receive additional training tailored to their individual requirements.
Such training includes Review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
meetings with internal management covering Internal Audit, legal, tax, treasury and financial matters as well as meetings with the External External Audit Auditor.
All members of the Committee receive regular briefings from Consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding the senior executives on matters covering governance and legislative Auditor and its terms of appointment.
developments, accounting practices and policies and tax and treasury.
Review and monitor the Auditors independence and services supplied and the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
Meetings The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year, at times related The Audit Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
to the Companys reporting cycle.
During 2015, the Company held four scheduled meetings, plus two additional meetings and the attendance Activities during 2015 of members at the meetings is set out in the table on page 55.
Senior Audit Committee meetings cover matters set out in its terms of representatives of the External Auditor, Group Head of Internal Audit reference related to the reporting and audit cycle, including half and the CFO are invited to, and regularly attend, meetings.
The and full year results and Internal and External Audit work plans and Chairman and CEO are also invited to attend all meetings and other reports, as well as regular updates from senior financial management.
senior management may attend by invitation from the Audit In addition, the Committee establishes an annual agenda plan of Committee.
Time is allocated to each meeting for private discussion specific matters arising.
The principal matters considered by the without invitees being present.
Audit Committee during the year are as set out in the remainder of this report.
Audit Committee meetings take place ahead of Board meetings and the Audit Committee Chairman provides an update of the key issues discussed to the Board at each meeting.
Minutes of Audit Committee meetings are provided to the Board and the External Auditor.
62 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Financial reporting and significant financial judgements Legal liability provisioning.
The Audit Committee assisted the Board with the discharge of its At 31 December 2015, a provision of 141 million was held on the responsibilities for financial reporting: Groups Balance Sheet in relation to regulatory, civil and or criminal investigations by government authorities as well as litigation Reviewing and approving the appropriateness of the interim and proceedings.
Management and legal judgement are important in annual Financial Statements and related announcements.
determining the level of provisioning.
The key judgements made, Recommending that, in the Audit Committees view, the Financial including legal advice, were discussed with the Audit Committee Statements were fair, balanced and understandable.
In addition to and the provisioning levels agreed to be appropriate.
detailed preparation and verification procedures in place for the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements, management placed Tax provisioning.
a focus on narrative reporting and clear written and visual From time to time the Group may also be involved in disputes in messaging to communicate the Groups strategy.
The Audit relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around Committee concluded that the disclosures contained in the Financial the world where the approach of the authorities is particularly Statements and the underlying processes and controls were difficult to predict.
The level of provisioning for these tax policies appropriate and recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and investigations is an issue where management and tax and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and judgement is important.
The Committee debated the key understandable and provided the necessary information to assess judgements made with management, including relevant professional the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
advice that may have been received in each case, and considers the Reviewing the appropriateness of the accounting policies, tax provisioning levels to be appropriate.
judgements and estimates used as set out on page 106 and concluding that the judgements and assumptions used were Exceptional items.
The Audit Committee recommended the adoption of The Committee considered the presentation of the Group Financial FRS 102: The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Statements and, in particular, the presentation of exceptional items Republic of Ireland to replace UK GAAP for the Parent Company.
and the items included within such measures.
The Audit Committee discussed this with management and agreed that the presentation The Audit Committee considered the following areas of significant provided more meaningful information to Shareholders about the financial judgement and complexity in relation to the 2015 Group underlying performance of the Group.
Management performs an annual impairment review for goodwill Trade spend is a significant expense for the Group, and the main and other intangible assets with indefinite lives.
This is important judgements relate to trade accruals, specifically the timing and given the significance of these items to the Groups Balance Sheet.
extent to which temporary promotional activity occurred.
The Audit Key judgements include the allocation of these assets to cash Committee reviewed with management its assessment of the control generating units CGUs and Groups of CGUs GCGUs as well as environment and the findings of Internal Audit relating to trade spend estimates of future business performance and cash generation, and considered that management operates an appropriate control discount rates and long-term growth rates see Note 9 to the Group environment which minimises the risks in this area.
Financial Statements on pages 114 to 116.
The Audit Committee has reviewed managements analysis, including the allocation of assets to CGUs or GCGUs, assessment of the discount rates used, Going concern and Viability Statement.
the appropriateness of specific risk factors applied to individual and A viability review was undertaken by management, encompassing groups of CGUs, as well as the adequacy of sensitivities applied.
See Note 1 to the Group Financial As a result of this review, the Audit Committee confirmed that Statements on page 102.
The Audit Committee reviewed the key it was comfortable that no impairment was required and that assumptions used by management in its viability review and going the indefinite life of the Groups intangible assets continued to concern assessment, as well as the scenarios applied and risks be appropriate.
Based on its review, the Audit Committee considers that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the Financial Statements was appropriate and confirmed the suitability of the Viability Statement covering the next five years as set out on page40.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 63 Audit Committee Report continued Risk management and internal control matters The Audit Committee monitors the rotation of the lead Audit Partner, In monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal who rotates every five years in accordance with best practice standards.
controls, the Audit Committee reviewed compliance procedures and The current lead Audit Partner has just completed the third year of his RBs overall risk framework including the Groups whistleblowing five-year term.
arrangements and considered operational risk and control processes.
There were no significant failings or weaknesses during the year PwC was appointed as Auditor of Reckitt Benckiser plc in 2000, the meriting disclosure in this report and the Audit Committee considers year after the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. in the internal control environment to be robust and functioning 1999.
At the time of the merger, PwC was the auditor of Reckitt & appropriately.
Colman plc and Deloitte LLP was the auditor of Benckiser N. V. Post-merger, the Audit Committee undertook a review and Other matters subsequently selected PwC as Auditor for the Group for the December The Audit Committee also considered the following specific matters 2000 year end.
There has been no subsequent audit tender.
PwC has during the year and the matters set out in the remainder of this report: been the Auditor of the Parent Company since the formation of ReckittBenckiser Group plc in 2007.
Deep Dive risk and control reviews were carried out on trade spend, environmental, health & safety, commercial and reputational, The Committee recognises the recent EU Regulation and Directive sustainability and legal compliance.
onAudit Reform in respect of audit retenders and rotation, and The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups major risk assessment theCompetition and Markets Authority Order on mandatory audit process and gave detailed consideration to information systems risk tendering.
Following careful consideration of the transitional rules and in respect of cyber security and data protection.
all available guidance, the Audit Committee has concluded that audit Senior Management engaged with the Committee members to tendering and rotation are both required by the 2020 financial present financial control reviews of the Groups ENA Area and India.
The External Auditors annual terms of engagement were approved.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and making Ethical issues, including any fraudulent activity or reports raised recommendations to the Board on tendering of the External Audit under the whistleblowing procedure, were considered.
After taking into account the work plan and relationship The Committee also kept abreast of changes in financial reporting withthe current External Auditor, the Board concluded, on the Audit and governance matters by way of technical updates throughout Committees recommendation, that it was in the best interests of the year.
theShareholders not to tender the audit contract at the current time.
TheAudit Committee has commenced a preselection process with a External Auditor number of audit firms in preparation for a possible audit tender in2017 The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring allowing for the appointment of a new auditor at the 2018 AGM.
The theindependence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the timing of the tender process will ensure compliance with both the effectiveness of the External Auditor and the audit process.
The Audit Competition and Markets Authority Order and UK implementation of Committee approves the Auditors terms of engagement and reviews EU regulations and is expected to coincide with the rotation of the the strategy and scope of the audit and the work plan.
RB has a formal current lead Audit Partner.
policy in place to safeguard the External Auditors independence.
PwC has expressed its willingness to continue as External Auditor of the The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services Company.
Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee, and undertaken by the External Auditor during the year to satisfy itself that in accordance with section 489 of the 2006 Act, resolutions to propose there is no impact on its independence.
The Board recognises that in the reappointment of PwC as the Companys External Auditor and to certain circumstances the nature of the advice required may make it authorise the Audit Committee to fix its remuneration will be put to the more timely and cost effective to appoint an auditor who already has Shareholders at the AGM.
The total fees paid to PwC for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 7.2 million, of which 1.4 million Internal Auditor related to non-audit work to which PwC were appointed principally for The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the the above reasons.
Details of non-audit services are set out in Note 4 effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Head of Internal Audit on page 110.
The Groups published policy on non-audit fees states reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and to the CFO for that, on an annual basis, non-audit fees should not normally be in administrative matters.
The Internal Audit department is responsible for excess of 50% of the Groups External Audit and audit-related fees impartially assessing the key risks of the organisation and appraising on an aggregate basis.
The Board confirms that, for the year ended and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of RBs risk 31 December 2015, non-audit fees were less than 50% of the audit management and internal controls in financial, information systems and and audit-related fees.
A copy of the Groups Non-Audit Fees Policyis other business and operational areas to develop and improve the available at www.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management control and governance processes and strategies.
RBs identified Group major risks and their In the opinion of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the mitigating controls are described in detail on pages 40 to 45.
External Auditor works well and the Audit Committee remains satisfied with its independence and effectiveness.
64 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements The annual Internal Audit plan is prepared under an agreed cover and The performance of Internal Audit and the External Auditor were also scope policy and reflects a risk-based approach.
Designated audit assessed by way of an internal questionnaire completed by members of locations are determined at the start of each year following a risk and the Audit Committee, Executive Directors and senior management.
In control assessment of each commercial and supply unit, covering sales, relation to the External Auditors review, respondents were invited to payroll, procurement and inventory management processes, and other rate PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas including quality, perceived risk factors.
Information systems and Head Office locations judgement, mindset and culture, skills and knowledge.
The review led also fall within Internal Audits remit and are subject to audit.
Following to the conclusion by the Audit Committee that PwC and the External each audit, findings are reviewed and reported to management and to Audit process were effective and that PwC provides a robust challenge the Audit Committee, together with recommendations and updates.
The evaluation of the Internal Audit function Resulting management actions and progress are tracked until a report indicated that management appreciated the quality and capability of is satisfactorily closed.
In 2015, Internal Audit carried out 66 audits.
the Internal Audit team and their sharing of examples of best practice observed across factories and commercial businesses, which assisted Internal Audit is also responsible for monitoring and reporting ethical with the improvement of internal controls and processes through the issues and updates the Audit Committee on any significant allegations Group, and were satisfied with the service level provided.
The Audit in relation to breach of the Companys Code of Conduct, bribery, fraud Committee considered the effectiveness review and the work carried and whistleblowing.
Any issues are thoroughly investigated, overseen out by the Internal Audit function and concluded that it was an by Internal Audit and in cooperation with appropriate management effective operation.
such as the Group General Counsel and Group Head of HR and reported to and considered by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is exclusively responsible on behalf of the Board for matters relating to the appointment of the Auditor, and therefore, Governance during the year the Company has complied with the Competition and During the year the Company complied with the provisions of the Code Markets Authority Order.
in respect of internal controls, risk, management and accountability.
The Audit Committees terms of reference were updated to reflect the 2014 version of the Code and narrative reporting best practice.
As part of the Board evaluation process, the Company Secretary carried out an internal evaluation.
The Committee reviewed the results of questionnaires circulated to and completed by members regarding its effectiveness in different areas including risk and internal control, auditor independence, and consideration of going concern and external reporting.
Both Audit Committee processes and the underlying knowledge and behaviours required to carry out those processes were reviewed and it was determined that the Committee fulfilled its responsibilities in respect of monitoring compliance, reported promptly to the Board on key issues and resolved them in a timely manner, and it was concluded that it was effective.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 65
