Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder seven countries of residence.
Along with I am pleased to present to you my their international operational experience, report on the Nomination Committee.
they also bring a depth of working knowledge covering multiple industries, business models, 2015 was an important year for the corporate cultures, organisational models, Nomination Committee during which we functional areas and business issues.
continued our work to refresh and strengthen Biographical details of the Directors your Board.
Key activities in 2015 included: are set out on pages 28 and 29.
Identifying and recommending Succession planning the appointment of Franois Pauly as We ensure that succession plans are in place Independent Non-Executive Director: for the orderly succession for appointments Franois was subsequently appointed to the Board at the Companys annual to the Board and senior management positions, so that there is an appropriate general meeting held on 19 May 2015. balance of skills and experience within the Identifying and recommending the Company and on the Board.
Our aim is for Our aim is for our Board appointment of Dominik fide Daniel as an our Board and senior management team to Executive Director holding the combined and senior management be reflective of the international nature of position of Chief Financial Officer and team to be reflective of the our business and the communities in which Chief Operating Officer.
Dominik was we operate and we are seeking to achieve international nature of our subsequently appointed by the Board with this through the development of people effect from 1 November 2015 and offers business and the communities from all parts of our business, supplemented himself for election at the Companys by the hiring of experienced professionals.
Succession planning discussions are Reviewing our succession policy Lance Browne an integral part of the Groups business for Executive Director and senior Chairman planning and review process and the managementroles.
continued development of the management capacity and capabilities within the business Board appointments enabled succession planning to be The Committees regular internal Board addressed in a robust way in 2015. review process monitors effectiveness, performance, balance, independence, Details of the gender balance on our Board leadership and succession planning enabling and within our business are included on page us to identify the capabilities and roles 37 opposite.
required for a particular Board appointment.
Terms of reference In view of the future development of the Below is a summary of the terms of reference Group and our objective to continue to of the Nomination Committee, complete Attendance enhance the diversity of the Board, the out of possible details of which are available on the Nomination Committee maintains an maximum number Companys website www.
com, are: ongoing programme of engagement with Members of meetings Board appointment and composition to highly qualified potential Non-Executive Lance Browne, regularly review the structure, size and Directors of varied backgrounds and gender: Chairman 4 4 composition of the Board and make Franois Pauly was engaged through this Elmar Heggen 4 4 recommendations on the role and programme and we did not need to make Nina Henderson 4 4 nomination of Directors for appointment use of a search agency in relation to his Franois Pauly 3 3 and reappointment to the Board for the Florence Pierre 4 4 appointment.
Russell Reynolds Associates purpose of ensuring a balanced and provided search services to the Company in Alex Sulkowski 1 1 diverse Board in respect of skills, Douglas Sutherland 4 4 respect of Dominik fide Daniels appointment: knowledge and experience.
they are independent of the Company.
Franois Pauly joined the Nomination Committee on 19 May 2015.
Our recommendations for Board Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board in appointments are based on merit whilst Alex Sulkowski left the Nomination Committee on 19 May 2015. reflecting our succession policy of continuing relation to the suitability of candidates for membership of the Audit and to increase the diversity of the Board over time.
Our eight current Board members Remuneration Committees.
The Length of tenure of Non-Executive appointment and removal of Directors comprising two women and six men Directors within the Committee represent six different nationalities and are matters reserved for the full Board.
6-9 years: 2 1 2 36 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Gender split of Board Gender split of business centre Gender split of Group employees employees 1.
Male: 51% 2 1 2 Board effectiveness to assess the role Our Board composition of the Chairman and Chief Executive and As at the date of this report, the Board All Directors served throughout the year make appropriate recommendations to comprises eight members: the Chairman under review, except as noted below: the Board.
Douglas Sutherland, five Non-Executive Dominik fide Daniel appointed 1 November 2015 Directors and two Executive Directors.
Board performance to assist the Franois Pauly appointed 19 May 2015 The Board considers all the Non-Executive Chairman with the annual performance Alex Sulkowski resigned 19 May 2015 Directors to be independent.
evaluation to assess the performance Dominique Yates resigned 1 November 2015 The names of the Directors serving as at and effectiveness of the overall Board 31 December 2015 and their biographical Regus aim to appoint a Board with varied and individual Directors.
details are set out on pages 28 and 29. backgrounds and gender to reflect the society in which we operate.
Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues and commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation to enable it to compete effectively.
Lance Browne Chairman, Nomination Committee www.
