46 Corporate Governance Executive Leadership Team 1 2 4.
Phill Wood, Group Human Resources Managing Director, UK & Director 47 Rest of World 50 Date appointed: January 2016 Date appointed: October 2013 Key strengths Key strengths Vanessa has had a successful Phill has extensive commercial and career with some of the worlds business development experience 3 4 best known consumer brands.
She having held a number of senior joins from RSA Group plc where roles in Pest Control and in she was Group HR, commercial fleet and outsourced Communications and Customer vehicle solution operations.
She is a Fellow of the Chartered Management Chartered Institute of Personnel and Accountant and holds a first class Development and holds BA Hons BSc Hons in Management 5 6 Geography from Bulmershe Science from Loughborough College, University of Reading.
Previous roles Previous roles She has held a number of senior Phill joined in 2006 as MD Europe HR and operational roles at LEGO Pest Control and was appointed and Gap.
MD of the Pest Control division, UK Current external commitments and Ireland in 2009.
previously at Lex Service RAC plc 7 8 for 15 years, holding Managing 5.
Stewart Power, Director and senior operational Chief Marketing Officer 45 roles within the Lex Service Group.
Date appointed: March 2014 Current external commitments Key strengths None.
Stewart has broad experience in 7.
John Myers, marketing and strategy and holds an MBA from London Business Managing Director, 1.
Jrgen Hfling, School and a BSc in Physics from North America 58 Chief Executive 52 Managing Director, Imperial College, University of Date appointed: October 2013 Please see page 44.
He is a member of the Key strengths The Chief Executive chairs the Date appointed: October 2014 Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Sales, operations and business Executive Leadership Team, Key strengths Previous roles development, having held senior comprising the key regional Significant experience in senior He joined Rentokil Initial in 2006 as roles in large US corporations.
business and functional leaders, positions in the logistics sector and Director of Marketing and Strategy MBA, Mercer University: degree in which reviews operational in sales and marketing, principally for the Rentokil division and Business Administration, University performance, execution against 14 years at Deutsche Post and became Group Marketing Director of Vermont.
strategy, governance and risk DHL International.
Prior to this he held roles Previous roles management.
international management as Marketing and Strategy Director He joined the Company in 2008 as consultancy experience.
A German at RAC Business Solutions, President and Chief Executive of 2.
Jeremy Townsend, national and fluent in English, Director of Business Solutions at North America Pest Control Chief Financial Officer French and German.
He has an Capita Group and was a division.
Prior to this he was SVP and Chief Information Integration & Marketing degree management consultant with the Sales, Cintas Corporation and prior from the Wharton School, Officer 52 Boston Consulting Group.
He to thathe was President and Chief University of Pennsylvania.
Please see page 44. started his career at BOC Group Executive at Bio Quest LLC.
John Previous roles plc spending seven years in began his career with American CEO of DHL Global Mail strategy, marketing and sales roles.
worldwide mail business of DHL Current external commitments Current external commitments Deutsche Post outside Germany.
Member of the United Way Board Founding partner of Theron in Berks County.
Management Advisors, an international management 8.
General Counsel & Current external commitments Company Secretary 46 None.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
