66 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board structure Board Executive Audit Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee International Sales and Marketing Board, divisions and subsidiary undertakings patent-related disputes and other A.
Leadership material litigation, forecasts and major The role of the Board product development projects.
The Board comprises four executive The Board meets as often as is and four independent non-executive necessary to discharge its duties directors in addition to the executive effectively.
In the financial year ended Chairman.
The directors holding office 30th June 2015, the Board met 11 times at the date of this report and short and the directors attendance record biographical details are given on pages at board and committee meetings 62 and 63.
Full biographical details is set out at the end of this report.
In addition, the non-executive directors The Company maintains liability met a number of times without executive insurance for its directors and officers, directors present.
as disclosed in the Other statutory and regulatory disclosures.
A high level summary of subject areas discussed during the year are set out on There is a formal schedule of matters page 67. specifically reserved for its decision.
These include the approval of annual and half-year results and trading statements, company and business acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, borrowings, material agreements, director and company secretary appointments and removals, Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 67 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 High level summary of subjects discussed during the year: Strategy Risk Governance Business strategy Groups risk analysis Legal updates and new disclosure requirements Reviewing potential acquisitions disposals Patent litigation Board evaluation Products and technology Succession planning executive management structure Controlling shareholder agreement Stakeholder engagement Safety Finance AGM and other shareholder feedback Health and safety system and reports Forecasts Investor day Oversight of the preparation and management of the financial statements Dividend policy Trading statements The Board has three formally constituted and strategies and review its sales and committees, the Audit committee, marketing activities.
This committee the Remuneration committee and the is chaired by the Deputy Chairman Nomination committee.
and includes the Assistant Chief Executive and Group Finance Director There is an executive management HR plus the directors of the five largest committee known as the Executive Pensions sales regions, the Director of Sales Board that is responsible for the Remuneration policy Development and the Head of Global executive management of the Groups Salary reviews Additive Manufacturing.
It is chaired by the Chairman and includes the executive A framework of delegated authorities directors and three senior management is in place that maps out the structure representatives responsible for the of delegation below the Board and CMM products line and machine includes the matters reserved to tool products line and the North and the Executive Board and the level of Central American market, respectively.
authorities given to management below The Executive Board usually meets the Executive Board.
for two days on a monthly basis The Board has adopted a conflict and considers the performance and of interests policy, putting in place strategic direction of the metrology and procedures for the disclosure and review healthcare businesses and other matters of any conflicts and potential conflicts, of general importance to the Group.
and authorisation by the Board if felt In addition, there is an executive sales appropriate.
Authorisations granted and and marketing committee known as the the terms of such are reviewed on an International Sales and Marketing Board annual basis.
New disclosures are made which meets quarterly to determine the where applicable.
Groups sales and marketing policies 68 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Code recommends that at least Division of responsibilities B.
Effectiveness half the Board, excluding the Chairman, theChairman Composition of the Board should comprise independent nonThe role of Chairman and Chief All the non-executive directors are executive directors.
The Board has Executive is a combined role and thus considered by the Board to be complied with this requirement since contrary to the recommendations of independent in character and judgement January 2015 when Kath Durrant joined, the Code.
Sir David McMurtry has held and there are no relationships or but due to retirements the Board was this position since the Company listed circumstances that are likely to affect not compliant prior to the appointment in 1983 and he and John Deer hold anon-executive directors judgement.
the majority of the voting interests in the Company.
David Grant was interim CEO of Appointments to the Board Innovate UK between January 2015 There has been a voting agreement A description of the structure and and May 2015, is currently the senior in place between Sir David and John activities of the Nomination committee independent director of IQE plc having Deer since 1983, further details of which are set out in the Nomination committee been appointed in September 2012, are set out in the Other statutory and report on page 72.
Kath Durrant was chair of STEMNET appointed in regulatory disclosures on page 84. successfully recruited and joined the December 2011, chair of the National The Board considers that there is still a Board in January 2015 further details Physical Laboratory appointed in May clear division of responsibilities at board are onpage 63.
2015 and on the board of the Defence level to ensure an appropriate balance Science and Technology Laboratory of power and authority so that there is Commitment Dstl appointed in June 2012.
He was no one person with unfettered powers The terms of appointment of the nonpreviously Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff of decision.
The Board and Executive executive directors, which includes University from October 2001 to August Board meet on a sufficiently regular the expected time commitment and 2012.
The Company has dealings basis to make decisions of significance requirement to discuss any changes with these organisations from time to to the metrology and healthcare to other significant commitments with time such as grant funded research business segments and review the Chairman and Chief Executive in projects, or research, collaboration management actions.
It is intended that advance, are available for inspection at or supply agreements.
The Company this combined role will continue for so the AGM and the registered office upon confirms that David Grant has taken no long as Sir David McMurtry remains written request.
part in decisions relating to any of the on the Board and he and John Deer dealings between the Company and None of the executive directors holds a hold a majority of the voting interests in these organisations.
John Jeans was appointed chair of The Chairman has no other significant Development the Council of Cardiff University in commitments as regards employment or Directors are offered the opportunity December 2011, is chair of Innovate directorships of other companies.
to attend formal training courses to UKs Stratified Medicine Steering Group update their knowledge of their duties as having been appointed in February Non-executive directors directors.
Guidance notes, papers and 2014 and was chair of MRC Technology David Grant is the Senior Independent presentations on changes to law and from December 2008 until November Director and is available to discuss regulations are provided as appropriate.
The Company has dealings material concerns with shareholders Non-executive directors are invited with these organisations from time to should the normal channels of the to attend internal conferences, which time such as grant funded research Chairman and Chief Executive or provide information to the Group on new projects, or research, collaboration the Group Finance Director fail to product development and marketing or supply agreements.
The Company resolve such concerns.
The noninitiatives, as well as our investor days, confirms that John Jeans has taken no executive directors meet without the the second of which was held in May part in decisions relating to any of the executive directors present to discuss 2015. Business presentations are given dealings between the Company and performance and other matters.
at board meetings to provide updates these organisations.
on, and opportunities to discuss, The dealings referred to above are not products and business strategies.
material i. e. in aggregate they are less than 0.5% of the Companys revenue for the financial year ended 30th June 2015.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 69 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 An induction pack is provided to new Given the full external evaluation in 2013, The Group has considerable financial appointees to the Board, and the an internal evaluation was conducted resources at its disposal and the induction programme together with the in 2014 with actions focusing on directors have considered the current continuing development programme improvements to information flows, financial projections.
As a consequence, includes site visits and briefings by organisational structure and succession the directors believe that the Group senior managers, attendance at internal planning.
The evaluation process for is well placed to manage its business senior management conferences 2015 has taken place and the results risks successfully.
and external trade shows, as well as will be discussed early in the new After making enquiries, the directors foreign subsidiary visits, as applicable.
The Chairman and Chief have a reasonable expectation that For example, non-executive directors Executive discusses performance with both the Company and the Group visited Renishaws China and Japan individual directors.
have adequate resources to continue operations in the period and attended in operation for the foreseeable future.
Re-election strategy days, the investor day, the Accordingly, they continue to adopt the group managers conference where In accordance with the Code all the going concern basis in preparing the global senior management were present directors will retire from the Board at the Annual report and accounts.
This has next AGM and will offer themselves up facilitated a better understanding of the for re-election at the AGM.
Risk management and internal Group, leadership team and Renishaws control products and markets.
C. Accountability The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk management Financial and business reporting Information and support and internal control, and for reviewing The respective responsibilities of the The Board receives appropriate their effectiveness.
Any system of directors and auditor in connection with documentation, management accounts, internal control is designed to manage the financial statements are explained forecasts and commentaries thereon rather than eliminate the risk of failure in Directors responsibilities on page 87 in advance of each board meeting to achieve business objectives and and the Independent auditors report to enable its members to review the can only provide reasonable and not onpages 88 to 90. financial performance of the Group, absolute assurance against material current trading and key business Fair, balanced and understandable misstatement or loss.
Regular financial updates The directors consider that the Annual are also provided between meetings.
There are defined lines of responsibility report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced The Company Secretary advises the and delegation of authorities.
and understandable, and provides the Board on all governance matters.
Established and centrally documented information necessary for shareholders All directors have access to the control procedures also exist, including, to assess the Groups performance, Company Secretary and to independent for example, capital and other business model and strategy.
professional advice at the Companys expenditure, information and technology expense where necessary to discharge security and legal and regulatory Going concern their responsibilities as directors.
These are applied The Groups strategy for delivering its The appointment and removal of the throughout the Group.
objectives and business model, together Company Secretary is a matter reserved The group internal audit function with the factors likely to affect its future for the Board.
development, performance and position provides independent and objective assurance that the control procedures are set out in the Strategic report, where Evaluation details of the financial and liquidity are appropriate and effectively applied.
The Board and its committees The Group Audit Manager attends Audit positions are also given.
In addition, undertake an annual evaluation of committee meetings to present annual note 22 to the financial statements their performance.
The format of the internal audit plans and the results includes the Groups objectives and evaluation varies each year.
Actions are policies for managing its capital, details monitored by the Audit committee of its financial instruments and hedging onanongoing basis.
activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
70 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED There is a process for the review of Constructive use of the AGM D. Remuneration business risks throughout the Group.
The AGM takes place at the Companys The Directors remuneration report These are reported on a monthly basis headquarters or one of the Companys explains how the Company applies by senior management and overseas other sites and formal notification is sent the 2012 Code principles relating subsidiaries.
These reports are reviewed to the shareholders at least 20 working to remuneration.
A business presentation is given and all directors are The Board ensures that there are E. Relations with available for questions during and after effective internal controls over the shareholders the meeting, including the chairs of the financial reporting and consolidation Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Dialogue with shareholders processes.
Tours of the Companys forecasts are presented to the Board for The Board announced a new policy facilities are offered.
The group internal audit function undertakes a review of subsidiaries meetings will be held other than Separate resolutions are proposed for shareholder meetings with the accounting processes and performance each substantially separate issue, and to provide assurance to the Board on Chairman, Senior Independent Director all resolutions will be taken on a poll.
and or any other non-executive director the integrity of the information supplied The Company reports on the number by each company forming part of the where a shareholder has material issues, of votes lodged on each resolution, the concerns or questions.
The director Groups consolidated results.
balance for and against each resolution attending such a meeting will and the number of votes withheld.
The Board undertakes an annual communicate the shareholders issues, This information is published via an RIS formal review of the effectiveness of concerns or questions to the Board.
and on the Companys website following the Groups system of internal controls The Boards response will be published the meeting.
and an updated risk and controls on the Renishaw website for the benefit analysis.
The review covers all material of all shareholders where appropriate.
controls, including financial, operational The interim and annual results and and compliance controls and risk presentations are posted on the website management systems.
promptly after announcement of the results to the UK Listing Authority via The Board is satisfied that there is an RIS.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Open webcasts of presentations on risks facing the Group, that it has been annual and half-year results are held in place during the year, is regularly and recordings of the presentations reviewed and accords with the FRC and the subsequent question and guidance on risk management and answer sessions made available after control.
The Board confirms that the webcast on the Companys website.
necessary action has been or is being Analysts and brokers reports will be taken to remedy any significant failings circulated to the Board.
The Board or weaknesses identified from its review.
intends to hold open discussions with any shareholder who wishes to share Audit committee and auditor views with the directors at the AGM A description of the structure and or the annual investor day at which activities of the Audit committee are set presentations on group strategy, out in the Audit committee report on business segments and product lines pages 73 to 75. will be given by members of the Board and senior management, as well as tours covering the Groups activities.
This year, 80 visitors attended the Companys investor day, which included various Q&A sessions with the Board during the day as well as an opportunity to ask questions during tours, lunch and refreshment breaks.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 71 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Disclosure rule DTR 7.2.
6 R Compliance statement The information regarding share capital The Board considers that it has required to be disclosed by this rule is complied with the requirements of the contained in the Other statutory and 2012 Code throughout the year except regulatory disclosures.
in relation to the following matters the reasons for non-compliance are stated Board and committee in the report above : meeting attendance record the combined role of Chairman and Shown against each directors name Chief Executive Code provision A.
2.1 : in the table below is the number and of meetings of the Board and its for part of the year at least half the committees at which the director was Board did not comprise independent present, and, in brackets, the number non-executive directors Code ofmeetings that the director was eligible provision B.
1.2. to attend during the year.
David Grant Senior Independent Director 29th July 2015 Board attendance record Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board committee committee committee Sir David McMurtry 11 11 1 1 2 D J Deer 10 11 B R Taylor 11 11 A C G Roberts 11 11 G McFarland 11 11 C T Chesney 11 11 3 3 7 7 1 1 1 K L Durrant 6 6 3 3 0 0 3 3 D Grant 10 11 3 3 6 7 1 1 4 D J Jeans 11 11 3 3 6 7 1 1 1 Kath Durrant was appointed to the Board on 1st January 2015.
2 John Deer did not attend one board meeting because of illness.
3 David Grant did not attend one board meeting and a Remuneration committee meeting held on the same day because of illness.
4 John Jeans did not attend one Remuneration committee meeting for family medical reasons.
