Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Report of the Audit Committees 91 Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of reviewed and discussed areas of significant judgement in the RELXPLC and RELX NV in conjunction with the Audit Committee preparation of the financial statements, including in particular: of RELX Group plc the Committees and has been approved by the i. the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets the respective Boards.
It provides an overview of the membership, significant judgements in respect of asset carrying values responsibilities and activities of the Committees.
The RELX PLC relate to the assumptions underlying the value in use and RELX NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles from the calculations including discount rates and long-term growth perspective of the parent companies and both Committees have assumptions.
The Committees received and discussed access to the reports to and the work of the RELX Group plc Audit reports from the RELX Group Financial Controller on the Committee in this respect.
methodology and the basis of the assumptions used: ii.
capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets thecapitalisation of costs related to the development of new Membership products and business infrastructure, together with the useful economic lives applied to the resulting assets, requires The Committees comprise at least three independent theexercise of judgement.
The Committees received reports Non-Executive Directors.
The members of each of the from the RELX Group Financial Controller on the amounts Committees who served during the year were: capitalised and asset lives selected for major projects: Ben van der Veer Chairman of the Committees iii.
uncertain tax positions assessing potential liabilities Adrian Hennah across numerous jurisdictions is complex and requires judgement in making tax determinations.
The Committees Linda Sanford received and discussed reports from the RELX Head of Group Taxation on the potential liabilities identified and Marike van Lier Lels from 21 July 2015. judgements applied: Adrian Hennah, a UK chartered accountant, and Ben van iv.
reviewed the recognition of certain pension scheme derVeer, a registered accountant in the Netherlands, liabilities which are subject to judgement.
The Committees areconsidered to have significant, recent and relevant received and discussed reports from the RELX Group financial experience.
Financial Controller on the methodology and the basis of the assumptions used.
reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance Responsibilities withapplicable accounting standards and other disclosure The main role and responsibilities of the Committees are requirements and received regular update reports on toassist the respective Boards in fulfilling their oversight accounting and regulatory developments: and responsibilities regarding: considered whether the Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
the integrity of the Groups interim and full year financial statements and financial reporting processes: The Committees also received detailed written and verbal reports from the external auditors on these matters.
The Committees were risk management and internal controls, and the satisfied with the explanations provided and conclusions reached.
effectiveness of the internal auditors: and the performance of the external auditors and the Risk management and internal controls effectiveness of the external audit process, including With respect to their oversight of risk management and internal monitoring the independence and objectivity of Deloitte.
controls, the Committees have: received and discussed regular reports summarising the status The Committees report to the respective Boards on their of the Groups risk management activities, including actions to activities, identifying any matters in respect of which they mitigate risks, and the findings from internal audit reviews and consider that action or improvement is needed and making the actions agreed with management.
Areas of focus in 2015 recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
included: management of investment programmes: post The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed acquisition integration: regulatory compliance and review of annually and a copy of each is published on the Groups information security including the management of data website, www.
com privacy: business continuity planning: and continued compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation and testing Committee meetings of internal controls over financial reporting: The Committees met seven times during 2015, with two meetings focused on the audit tender and subsequent preparation for reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2015 and transition of audit firm.
The Audit Committee meetings are monitored execution, including progress in respect of typically attended by the RELX Chief Executive Officer, theRELX recommendations made: Chief Financial Officer, the RELX Group Financial Controller, reviewed the resources, terms of reference and effectiveness theRELX Chief Legal Officer, the RELX Head of Audit and Risk, of the RELX Group plc risk management and internal audit and audit partners from the external auditors.
functions: received presentations from: the RELX Chief Compliance Financial reporting Officer on the compliance programmes, including the In discharging their responsibilities in respect of the 2015 interim operation of the Groups codes of conduct, training and full year financial statements, the Committees have: programmes and whistleblowing arrangements and the RELXChief Legal Officer on legal issues andclaims: 92 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 received reports from the RELXChief Strategy Officer and Chief Audit Tender Legal Officer on information security and other technologyAs reported in the 2014 Annual Reports and Financial Statements, related risks: the Committees decided to hold a competitive audit tender process for rotation of the audit firm in respect of the 2016 received updates from the RELX Group Treasurer on pension financial year.
The Committees had responsibility for the tender arrangements and funding, treasury policies and risk process and at the conclusion of the process the Committees management and compliance with treasury policies: made the proposal to the Boards.
received presentations from the RELX Head of Group Taxation on tax policies and related matters: Given the geographic spread and the complexity of the Group, three major firms of accountants were invited to take part in the received regular updates from the RELX Chief Financial tender.
During the tender each firm was given equal access to Officer on developments within the finance function: and management and to information about the Group.
The tender received presentations from chief financial officers of process was thorough and was designed to assess each firms major businesses.
audit proposal against a set of predetermined criteria that had been agreed by the Committees.
Each firm was invited to External audit effectiveness an extensive series of interviews with members of the Audit The Group has a well-established policy on audit effectiveness and Committees, members of the Board and a number of the Groups independence of auditors that sets out inter alia: the responsibilities senior management team.
These interviews formed part of a of each Audit Committee in the selection of auditors to be proposed formal assessment process whereby each firm was assessed for appointment or re-appointment and for agreement on the against these criteria, including matters such as the strength terms of their engagement, scope and remuneration: the auditor and experience of senior team members and their firms ability independence requirements and the policy on the provision of nontoserve effectively the Groups operations.
audit services: the rotation of audit partners and staff: and the conduct Each firm was asked to provide a written document containing of meetings between the auditors and the Audit Committees.
The policy is available on the website, www.
com detailed information on certain matters in support of their audit proposal which were key to the Audit Committees assessment The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit of each bid, including the firms evaluation of the Groups risks, services that would compromise their independence or violate the proposed audit plan and the use of technology.
All three of the any professional requirements or regulations affecting their firms were invited to present their audit proposition to a meeting of appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide the Audit Committees.
The Committees subsequently considered non-audit services which do not conflict with their independence, each firms audit proposals against the criteria that had previously and where their skills and experience make them a logical been agreed by the Committees.
The Committees evaluation supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committees.
also took into account the outcome of recent internal or external reviews to assess the quality of each firms audits, details of each Non-audit services performed in the Netherlands are limited to firms audit methodology and areas of audit focus with regard to audit assurance activities.
The Committees will continue to review the Group.
the policy on the provision of non-audit services in the light of ongoing regulatory developments.
Throughout the process the Committees were mindful of theneed to maintain the independence of the external auditor.
The Committees have, each quarter, reviewed and agreed the As part of the tender each firm was required to disclose all existing non-audit services provided in 2015, together with the associated relationships with the Group and explain how the firm would meet fees which are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial RELXs policy on audit effectiveness and independence.
The non-audit services provided were in the areas of audit-related activities such as royalty assurance, tax advice and Following the conclusion of the audit tender process, the compliance, due diligence and other transaction-related services.
Committees recommended to the respective Boards that resolutions for the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & The external auditors have confirmed their independence and Young Accountants LLP as external auditors for the 2016 financial compliance with the Group policy on auditor independence to the year be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meetings of Audit Committees.
Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants BV or their predecessor The audit of the 2015 Annual Reports and Accounts will therefore firms were first appointed auditors of the parent companies for be the last external audit to be conducted by Deloitte LLP and the financial year ended 31 December 1994.
The auditors are Deloitte Accountants BV.
The Committees would like to record required to rotate the lead audit partners responsible for the audit their thanks to the Deloitte member firms and their partners engagements every five years.
The lead engagement partners for and staff for their many years of service to the shareholders of RELX PLC and RELX NV have both completed two years.
The Committees have conducted their review of the performance The effectiveness of the Audit Committees was reviewed as of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external part of the 2015 evaluation of the Boards which confirmed that audit process for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The review the Committees continue to function effectively.
Details of the was based on a survey of key stakeholders across the Group, evaluation are set out on page 68. consideration of public reports by regulatory authorities on key Deloitte member firms and the quality of the auditors reporting to Ben van der Veer and interaction with the Audit Committees.
Based on this review, Chairman of the Audit Committees the Audit Committees were satisfied with the performance of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
