56 Audit Committee Report Last year we also highlighted that we intended to meet with the regional Julie Southern finance directors to allow us to better assess the independence of the Chairman, finance function and the quality of finance function talent outside the Audit Committee UK.
The Committee has found the meetings to be informative and helpful and has been reassured by the quality of presentations that we have seen.
We will continue with a similar programme in 2016.
Although inorganic growth is a core part of the Companys strategy, the acquisition of Steritech in the fourth quarter of 2015 is of an unusual scale and will significantly enlarge our Pest Control business in North America.
The Committee will take a special interest in the integration and development of the Steritech business in 2016.
As described in this report, we will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit assurance process.
A planned external review of the Dear Fellow Shareholder effectiveness of the internal audit function was carried out in 2015 by Grant The Audit Committee has a clear set of responsibilities which are laid Thornton LLP.
The outcome of the review was very positive with the down in its terms of reference and agreed by the Board.
These terms of internal audit function being found to be highly respected, value-adding reference were reviewed and updated during the year and conform with and supportive of management, while retaining an appropriate functional the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the independence.
Some recommendations were made in relation to the Code and to the best practice standard laid down by the Institute of nature and level of experience of the team, and some refinements to the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA.
methodology and processes were proposed, all of which will be carefully evaluated by the Director of Risk and Internal Audit and the Audit The Committee comprises only independent Directors and its overriding Committee.
Overall I was reassured that the comprehensive and purpose is to provide assurance to the Board that the interests of considered reporting from Internal Audit to the Committee was reflective shareholders are appropriately protected, principally in the areas of of a generally strong and well-regarded function within the business.
financial reporting both internal and external and over the effectiveness of the internal control environment and of the internal and external audit In summary I believe that 2015 has seen continued development of the processes.
The role of the Committee is set out in this report and the Rentokil Initial reporting and control framework and I look forward to terms of reference are available at www.
com seeing this maintained in 2016.
The Code requires that the Committee report on significant matters The Committee has considered the recommendations of the Code and considered during the year.
The Committee has therefore set out its related guidance in relation to tendering the external audit at least every position formally on the issues relating to the financial statements where ten years.
As shareholders will be aware, KPMG LLP was appointed key judgements were taken.
These are: auditor to the group in 2009 following a competitive tender.
As reported the annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired last year, the lead audit partner appointed in 2009 retired from the firm intangible assets: early in 2013 and the Company had a new lead audit partner with effect from the beginning of the 2013 financial year.
Given that the Committee provisions for tax contingencies and UK deferred tax asset is comfortable with the effectiveness of the audit process and the recognition: and Committees relationship with KPMG LLP is good, the Committee does acquisition accounting.
not see audit re-tendering as relevant to the Company at the present time.
In the Auditors Report on pages 84 to 86 the auditor also provides The 2014 audit was selected for an Audit Quality Review by the acommentary on what it considers to be the significant matters Financial Reporting Council FRC, as part of their routine processes.
ofjudgement taken in respect of the financial statements.
I am This review is provided to the Committee to support our responsibility to comfortable that all material issues of accounting judgement have been review and monitor the external auditors independence.
The fully discussed by the Committee and that there were no divergent Committee reviewed the report and discussed its findings with KPMG.
views between management and the auditor that were not resolved.
Overall we remain satisfied that the external auditor maintains a high In addition to consideration of areas of accounting judgement we have set level of independence and that we have robust processes in place to out on pages 57 to 58 a summary of all the activities of the Committee ensure that this is not compromised.
during the year divided between the Committees primary areas of I continue to be satisfied that the Committee has been provided with focus internal controls and risk, external audit and financial reporting.
good quality and timely material to allow proper consideration to be given As I indicated in last years Audit Committee Report we have maintained to the Committees responsibilities.
The Committee has met with the a focus during the year on improving the internal control framework.
internal and external auditors without management present on a number This is particularly important as the Company continues to acquire new of occasions and I have a regular dialogue with the external audit partner, businesses and expand into new territories.
In general the standard of the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Risk and Internal Audit.
internal controls remains high but we have seen issues of control failure Yours faithfully in Mexico, and some fraudulent activity in our Sydney branch in Australia and in our specialist hygiene business in the Netherlands.
Although it is always disappointing to identify control failures I am very encouraged by the transparency with which matters are reported and the thoroughness of the follow-up actions agreed.
Julie Southern During 2015 the Committee also reviewed both the tax and treasury Chairman, Audit Committee policies of the group, both of which support comprehensive levels of 24 February 2016 internal control.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 57 Audit Committee Report Role of the Committee Activities of the Committee in 2015 The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of The Committee met five times during the year and attendance at those financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The meetings is shown on page 53.
Committees focus is to review and challenge in these areas both with management and with internal and external auditors.
Key items discussed by the Audit Committee The Committee: monitors the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim Audit Committee time allocation % management statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: see page 142 for the Statement of Directors Responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts keeps under review the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems reports to the Board on its activities and provides the Board with an independent assessment of the groups accounting affairs and financial position to enable it to meet the Code requirement to present a fair, 28% Financial Reporting 24% Internal Controls balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position 20% Risk Management and prospects 16% Governance monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit 12% External Audit function establishes and oversees the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including setting their fees, monitoring their independence and In 2015 the Committee considered: effectiveness and ensuring that the Companys policy relating to their engagement on non-audit matters is appropriate and observed Internal controls and risk The status of the control environment monitors matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing arrangements The outcome of internal audit investigations and status of resolution of issues raised Terms of reference Group risks and actions to enhance their measurement, monitoring and The terms of reference of the Committee are available at mitigation actions www.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed by the Committee during 2015 and the Board approved a Review and enhancement of relevant policies and procedures including number of minor amendments to the text to ensure that the terms of the group authority schedule, tax and treasury policies reference are fully aligned to current best practice.
They take full account Group reporting processes and the central control environment, of the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
including review of Group Risk Committee minutes Composition of the Committee The conclusions and themes emerging from the internal audit The members of the Committee are set out on page 53 in the Corporate investigations conducted during the year and approved the plans for Governance Report.
There were no changes to the Committee in 2015.
2016 in parallel with the Boards strategic review and operating plan for Julie Southern is a Chartered Accountant and is considered to have the year relevant and recent financial experience.
Both Peter Bamford and Alan Giles have extensive commercial and operational experience in overseeing External audit the financial affairs of substantial business undertakings.
All Committee The terms and scope of the audit engagement for the annual, half-year members are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee did and quarterly financial statements together with fees charged not find it necessary to seek external advice during the year, other than The effectiveness of the external audit process through its usual dialogue with the external auditor.
A review of the annual financial statements, consideration of principal Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman, the Chief areas of accounting judgement or materiality, further details of which are Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor, the Director of provided in this report, including discussions with the auditor without Risk and Internal Audit and the Company Secretary.
Other Company executives present executives attend meetings periodically such as the Group Financial Controller and Treasurer, the Group Tax Director and the regional finance Compliance with the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit directors.
services by the auditor Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 58 Audit Committee Report The audit strategy for the 2015 audit including the key areas of focus, The auditor reviews the centrally provided model and a sample of materiality levels, scope and coverage individual CGUs impairment testing, as well as evaluating the procedures undertaken to identify indicators of impairment in the year.
An analysis setting out the basis on which KPMG LLP continued to meet the appropriate professional standards of independence as auditor Although the total values of intangible assets are significant, management to the Company has been able to demonstrate to the Committee that there is material headroom in the major balances based on the assumptions made.
Accounting, financial reporting The effectiveness of the internal control and risk management Provision for tax contingencies and UK deferred tax asset framework and consideration of the statement to shareholders on the recognition control environment The group holds a number of provisions for outstanding tax exposures which arise in the normal course of business.
The group operates across The annual, half-year and quarterly financial statements together with a wide range of tax jurisdictions, representing many different approaches the significant financial reporting judgements relating to each statement to the charging and collection of corporation tax.
Due to the complexity of the groups tax position there are a number of areas where significant A review of material litigation and claims judgement is exercised.
The group employs local tax experts to support Reviews with regional finance directors including the control environment judgements where there is significant uncertainty and the amounts in their businesses involved are material.
In respect of transfer pricing across tax jurisdictions the group has benchmarked its approach using international tax experts A review of and recommendation to the Board in relation to the going to ensure the risk of breaching local tax authority requirements is concern analysis and the viability statement mitigated.
In addition, the group has deferred tax assets that have been Significant accounting judgements recognised in respect of tax losses in the UK.
There is inherent uncertainty After discussion with both management and the auditor, the Committee involved in both evaluating the accessibility of the tax losses and in determined the key issues of accounting judgement affecting the financial estimating the quantum of future UK taxable profits to utilise the assets.
statements and therefore providing the potential for material misstatement Where the judgements are material to the group, the auditor uses its own in the groups financial statements related to be: specialists to assist in the review of the approaches taken and assumptions made by management and ensure these result in adequate the annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired intangible provisions.
The Committee is satisfied that the assumptions supporting assets: the valuations are appropriate and that the assets are reasonably stated in provisions for tax contingencies and UK deferred tax asset recognition: the financial statements.
and Acquisition accounting acquisition accounting.
In view of the significance of the Steritech acquisition in 2015, the Committee reviewed the accounting treatment of certain aspects of the These issues have been discussed and reviewed by the Committee during transaction, including determination of the consideration paid and the the year but notably at the review of the interim results and at the review provisional opening balance sheet, including the identification and and agreement of the audit plan for 2015. valuation of acquired intangible assets.
Annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired Internal audit intangible assets The group has an internal audit team led by the Director of Risk and The group has 776.5m of acquired intangible assets at 31 December Internal Audit.
Where justified by the need for local language or technical 2015.
Management is required to perform annual tests for potential expertise in particular markets, the team draws additional resources from impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets.
The groups principal external practices, principally Deloitte LLP this was not required in 2015. non-financial assets are grouped into cash-generating units CGUs for the The Committee also has the benefit of the output from the financial purpose of assessing the recoverable amount usually a country business controls testing carried out by the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
Where a CGU carries goodwill above the local equivalent of 1m Director of Risk and Internal Audit reports to the Chief Financial Officer and sterling, this must be tested for potential impairment using a centrally has direct lines of communication with the Chairman of the Audit provided model.
For goodwill balances below the local equivalent of 1m Committee, the Chief Executive and the Company Chairman, as well as to sterling, CGUs are only required to satisfy themselves that nothing has all operational and functional leaders in the business.
happened since the previous review or since the goodwill balance was established that would indicate any impairment.
An external review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function was carried out in the second half of 2015 by Grant Thornton LLP.
The Cash flows are based on recent strategic plans as amended for any outcome of the review was very positive with the internal audit function significant changes since preparation.
Discount rates used for cash flows being found to be clearly understood and highly respected.
The report must be the applicable rate from the internally published group discount noted excellent working relationships across the group, with the function rates, which are adjusted for local country risk.
CGUs are required to being seen to be value-adding and supportive of management, while provide positive confirmation that they have performed impairment tests retaining an appropriate functional independence.
Reporting to the and, where applicable, that they are satisfied that no impairment of Committee was assessed as comprehensive and well considered.
report noted the continuing improvement in the function in recent years and its contribution to the internal control framework for the group.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 59 Audit Committee Report Some recommendations were made in relation to the nature and level of Audit related and non-audit services experience of the team, including enhancing training, and some To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditor, the refinements to the methodology and processes were proposed, all of Company has a policy on the engagement of the auditors services on which will be carefully evaluated by the Director, Risk and Internal Audit audit related and non-audit services.
The Committee accepts that certain and the Audit Committee.
work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the auditor.
The policy sets out the nature of services that are permitted and those that are During the year, internal audit continued to review a broad range of specifically prohibited.
In general, permitted services would be limited to business processes in depth at a relatively limited number of business matters that are closely related to the annual audit process or where a locations.
The audit plan approved by the Committee in December 2014 detailed knowledge of the group is advantageous.
The auditor is permitted has been completed.
The common themes and related recommendations to be engaged on transaction services but not to undertake any work arising from the 18 audits and investigations completed or in progress, which would itself be subject to audit.
The Committee reviews regularly considered by the Committee covered: key financial controls, the amount and nature of non-audit work performed by the auditor to entertainment and expenses, authority schedules, state of service ensure that the auditors independence is not compromised.
Any performance monitoring and Customer Voice Counts assessments, engagement on permitted services in excess of 50,000 requires the ITgeneral controls and entity level controls, pricing strategy, sales and approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and any engagement in customer account management, customer contract management, stock excess of 250,000 requires the approval of the Committee.
A copy of the and warehousing, sales and operational planning, business continuity policy is available at www.
com management, compliance with the Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy and compliance with HR policies.
Fees for audit related and non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to 0.7m 2014: 0.6m, representing 24% of the audit fees.
In each area of focus, recommendations for implementation of additional Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit related services and controls or improvements to the existing controls were agreed with non-audit services can be found in Note A8 to the financial statements.
management and realistic time frames set for actions to be completed.
Progress on the completion of agreed recommendations is reviewed by Disclosure of information to the auditor the Committee and it noted that the number of overdue audit The Committee monitors the process leading up to the preparation of recommendations remains at a low level.
financial statements, including the arrangements the Company has in place for disclosing all relevant audit information to the auditor.
A formal None of the failures identified by internal audit in the control environment or confirmation on disclosure of information to the auditor is provided in the any of the recommendations resulting from individual audits represented a Directors Report on page 141. systemic underlying issue.
The overall work of the internal audit function is supportive of the Committees and the Boards view that the financial and Effectiveness operational controls environment is working adequately set out in Risks Under the Code the Committee is required to review and monitor the and Uncertainties on page 33 and the Board statement on the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit effectiveness of Risk Management and internal control on pages 61 to 62. process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
The 2014 audit was completed and all milestones reached, During the year a review of the key IT risks facing the organisation was and there were no significant unexpected events relating to the publication undertaken by Grant Thornton LLP, from which a three-year programme of the year-end results.
of internal audit work was defined.
This programme was discussed with and approved by the Audit Committee and is planned to be carried out The Committee conducted a review of the auditors effectiveness during between 2016 and 2018. the year, drawing input from the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Risk and Internal Audit and other members of the senior finance management External audit team as well as from the majority of the finance directors of the groups Audit services subsidiaries.
The process made use of a formal evaluation using a The auditor is appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the questionnaire which was completed by 31 business units as well as by the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the central accounts, tax and treasury functions.
KPMG LLP has acted as the auditor to the group throughout resources and expertise of the external audit team the year.
The Committee is responsible for oversight of the auditor, agreeing the audit strategy and related work plan as well as approving effectiveness of the audit process their fees.
effectiveness of the financial controls testing process The auditor attends all meetings of the Committee and meets with the The Committee considered the detailed findings of the review which Committee without executive management present.
The main included a number of detailed recommendations, none of which was engagement with the Committee in 2015 has been over the review and material in the overall context of the group audit but was helpful in relation publication of annual and periodic financial statements and consideration to improvements in the Companys processes and those of the auditor.
of the changes required this year in reporting to shareholders on the Taking all responses into account, the scoring mechanism which was the Committees activities in relation to its review of the financial statements, same as in the previous year, demonstrated that the audit performance as provided in the Code.
The Committee considers that it has an effective was effective and at a similar level to the previous year.
working relationship with the external audit team.
As reported below, the Committee has formally reviewed the effectiveness of the auditor and is satisfied with their performance.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 60 Audit Committee Report Auditor independence and objectivity Some of the above responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee, In concluding that KPMG LLP should be proposed for re-appointment as the full remit of which is described above.
auditor at the 2016 AGM, the Board and the Audit Committee took into The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Chief Financial account the need to ensure that auditor independence was safeguarded.
Officer and the Director of Risk and Internal Audit on financial controls and The Audit Committee also took into account the review undertaken of process improvement programmes.
These include: theeffectiveness of the audit process as well as input from executive management.
an annual report on the overall status of the control environment in the group including the results of testing and reports on identified areas of The Company considers that there are sufficient controls and processes weakness in controls: inplace to ensure that the required level of independence is maintained.
The Board does not consider that there is any material risk of the action plans on control environment improvements and updates on their Companys auditor withdrawing from the market.
implementation: Auditor re-tendering updates on control breakdowns and planned actions to prevent a Following a tender process in 2009, KPMG LLP replaced recurrence: and  LLP as the groups auditor.
The Code states periodic reports from regional and group finance executives, and that FTSE 350 companies should tender the provision of audit services internalaudit.
atleast every ten years or explain their approach, if different.
A resolution concerning KPMG LLPs proposed re-appointment as auditor and There is a Group Risk Committee composed of key functional and settingof its fees will be proposed at the AGM of the Company to be operational senior managers which considers the risk framework and key heldon 11 May 2016. risks.
Further details are set out on page 54.
Groups approach to risk management and internal Specific programmes are in place to support implementation of the Code of Conduct and underlying policies, national laws and regulations.
In some control cases dedicated specialists ensure that standards are set and complied The groups approach to managing risk and ensuring that an effective with, for example in Health & Safety, IT security, pensions and tax.
More internal control environment is maintained is described below and the broadly, e-learning training, including on the U learning management Boards statement on internal control and risk is set out in the section platform, is used to ensure that expected standards of behaviour are immediately following.
widely disseminated and adopted across the group, for example to ensure The identification and management of risk is fully integrated into the understanding of the Code of Conduct and compliance with competition development of the groups strategy and into the day-to-day operational law and anti-corruption anti-bribery legislation.
execution of the strategy by the regions and business units.
Ensuring that Independent re-assurance of the effectiveness of risk management and risks are identified and managed effectively is a part of every managers internal controls across the group is provided to the Chief Executive and and supervisors job through leadership of the teams for which they are the Board by Group Internal Audit.
Board statement on the effectiveness of risk The Board has overall responsibility for the groups risk management approach, which includes: management and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining sound systems of risk review and approval of the groups overall strategy, including overall risk management and internal control that are both fully effective and ensure appetite.
This includes reviewing the risks that may prevent the group compliance with the Code on internal control and risk management.
Risks from achieving its objectives and ensuring that these risks are mitigated are considered in the context of long-term strategic and emerging threats, or managed to an acceptable level: and shorter-term risks to the delivery of the annual operational plan.
The regular reviews of business performance including updates of the risks Board has also assessed the viability of the group over a period of three that the business is facing, and challenging management to obtain years, taking into account the potential impact of the principal risks and assurance that these risks are being effectively managed: stress testing financial forecasts for severe but plausible scenarios, taking into account the anticipated effectiveness of mitigating actions see Risks review of managements approach to identifying and managing risk and Uncertainties section on pages 35 to 37. including approval of the group key risks schedule and recommending enhancements: The framework of risk management and internal control described in the preceding section is designed to manage and mitigate risk rather than evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls, including financial, eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing operational and compliance controls: business objectives, internal controls and risk management can only evaluation of the effectiveness of internal and external audit: and provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Review of its effectiveness is achieved through delegation of authority to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer regular and transparent management reporting, the governance to make commitments on behalf of the Company.
processes and from the external and internal assurance processes, andinthe Audit Committee and Boards annual review of strategy andoperational risks.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 61 Audit Committee Report The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of Whistleblowing Speak-up internal control for the year ended 31 December 2015 and confirms that: There are policies and procedures in place for the reporting by colleagues of suspected wrongdoing, for these suspicions to be formally investigated, the group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and for the results of the investigation to be reported to the whistleblower.
managing the significant risks faced by the group: The Committee receives a report on control incidents arising from this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the whistleblowing as well as from other sources.
The Committee also reviews date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: periodically processes which the Company has in place to ensure that in all territories there is an effective communication process through which the process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and colleagues are kept informed about the whistleblowing process.
Global the process accords with the Code.
freephone numbers and a dedicated email address have been established.
In addition to workplace material for colleagues, multiple Code of Conduct language information on the Speak-up programme is prominently The Code of Conduct is the foundational compliance policy of the group.
displayed on the group and individual business unit intranet sites.
The Code of Conduct is distributed in full in 14 languages and in summary format in 32 languages, and has been reviewed and refreshed for reissue Committee effectiveness in 2016.
Mandatory training is provided for all colleagues on the groups The Committee conducted a review of its effectiveness using the services Code of Conduct, using the U platform as well as offline tools.
There is of Lintstock, an independent external corporate governance consultancy.
also online training on other compliance areas including competition law, The review concluded that the Committee was performing effectively and anti-bribery and corruption and securing information and protecting had received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management privacy.
Enhanced monitoring and recording of training completions is to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Over 67% of colleagues invited to partake have participated in these online training modules.
A communications programme and material for workplace briefing to support reinforcement of Code of Conduct compliance is embedded in the business units.
The effectiveness of the communications programme Julie Southern is reviewed by group internal audit.
The Board will continue to keep Chairman, Audit Committee policies supporting Code of Conduct compliance under regular review to 24 February 2016 ensure that they are appropriate and effective.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
