Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Directors Remuneration Report 77 Directors Remuneration Report incentive purposes were increased for each subsequent grant The Directors Remuneration Report the Report describes cycle building on the progress made and demonstrating our how the Group applies the principles of good governance ongoing commitment to improving returns.
Over this period, relating to Directors remuneration.
This Report has been ROIChas increased from 10.4% to 12.7%.
prepared by the Remuneration Committee of RELX Group plc the Committee in accordance with the UK Corporate The 2015 annual incentive payments to the Executive Directors Governance Code, the UK Listing Rules, the Large and were marginally above target, resulting in payouts of around 70% Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports of the maximum opportunity, a level relatively consistent over Amendment Regulations 2013 the UK Regulations and the thepast five years.
Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Dutch Code.
ROIC and EPS performance in respect of the 2013-15 cycle of The Report was approved by the Boards of RELX PLC, theBIP Bonus Investment Plan and the ESOS Executive Share RELX NV and RELX Group plc.
The Remuneration Policy Option Scheme resulted in respective outcomes close to and at wasapproved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General the full amount of the awards granted.
The 2013-15 cycle of the Meeting of RELX PLC for three years.
The policy can be found LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan vested on 26 February 2016 at atwww.
com go remunerationpolicy or on pages 93% with ROIC and total shareholder return TSR targets having 79 to 85 of the 2013 Remuneration Report.
been fully achieved and EPS above the middle of the target range.
RELX PLC shareholders will be invited to vote on our 2015 The PSP award with a performance period ended 31 December 2015 Annual Remuneration Report by way of a non-binding advisory granted to Nick Luff as compensation for forfeited entitlements vote at the 2016 Annual General Meeting of RELX PLC.
from previous employment, which had the same targets as the LTIP, vested at the same level as the 2013-15 cycle of LTIP.
The audited sections of the Report are clearly marked.
During 2015, fees were reviewed for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman in the context of market data and practice of FTSE 30 companies, with some reference to AEX and US listed companies.
Introduction from the Remuneration As a result, several adjustments were made which are set out on page 81.
The changes include an increase to the Chairman fee and Committee Chairman the Non-Executive Director base fee both of which had last been As you will read elsewhere in this Annual Report, 2015 was reviewed during 2011.
The changes took effect on 1 January 2016 another year of good progress for the company in which and fall within the policy previously approved by shareholders.
management continued to transform the business into a modern global provider of information and analytics for professional In line with increases for the wider employee population, the andbusiness customers across industries.
This is achieved by Remuneration Committee has approved 2016 salary increases leveraging a deep understanding of the business's customers forthe Executive Directors of 2.5%.
tocreate innovative solutions which combine content and data As we are not proposing any changes to the Remuneration Policy with analytics and technology in global platforms.
Management which was approved by shareholders in April 2014, it will continue continues to build leading positions in long-term global growth to apply unchanged until the April 2017 Annual General Meetings markets, primarily through organic investment supplemented of shareholders AGMs.
We will be reviewing our policy during byselective acquisitions where the business is the natural owner 2016 with a view to presenting an updated remuneration policy and can accelerate the strategy with good returns.
It continues to forapproval at the 2017 AGMs.
In line with past practice, we will divest assets that do not have the potential for significant future beconsulting with major shareholders and shareholder value creation for the business.
representative bodies on this matter in advance.
By consistently following this strategy, management is improving This years Report has been prepared in a manner which balances the business profile of the Group and the quality of our earnings, the specific local requirements of the UK Regulations and the i. e. more predictable revenues, a higher growth profile and Dutch Code with the desire to provide additional information improving returns.
The results of this strategy and management whichmay be helpful to our broader investor base.
effort have been reflected in the strong financial results of the Group over the past five years, with consistent revenue, profit andearnings per share EPS growth.
This has resulted ingood achievements against targets under the multi-year incentives.
Wolfhart Hauser Chairman, Remuneration Committee Return on invested capital ROIC was introduced as a metric into the multi-year incentives in 2010 emphasising the focus on capital discipline.
For the five years since, ROIC targets for multi-year
