Corporate Governance Your Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company Dear Shareholder We have seen the benefits of having I am pleased to introduce the Governance strength and diversity on the Board and section of our Annual Report which our aim is to maintain a Board which is documents your Boards approach reflective of the broad range of skills, to directing and controlling Regus.
backgrounds and experience necessary to properly serve our shareholders.
We have Our approach to governance pursued this objective by engaging Board We firmly believe that good governance members based on merit who have had starts with a strong Board providing broad executive responsibilities and bring entrepreneurial leadership and setting very different and complementary personal the values for the Group against a backdrop experiences and approaches to matters of prudent and appropriate safeguards, including the evaluation of opportunities checks and balances which are regularly and management of risks.
reviewed and which ensure that the right considerations underpin every decision Remuneration policy we make.
As indicated in our 2014 Directors Good governance starts Remuneration Report, during 2015 the As a Board we regularly discuss and with a strong Board providing Remuneration Committee has reviewed the reviewour: entrepreneurial leadership remuneration and incentive framework for Performance and progress our Executive Directors and has consulted and setting the values for Major risks and their mitigation with our major shareholders and investor the Group.
bodies on the introduction of the Behaviours and values remuneration policy as set out on pages Douglas Sutherland People and how we can create a high 44 to 47: this policy has been designed to performing team Chairman promote the long-term success of the Future development and succession Company and approval will be sought for Customers it at the 2016 annual general meeting.
Shareholders Audit Committee and auditors In view of our continuing long-term ambition I hope that the reports contained in this for growth and the significant investments section provide you with an insight into how that have been made across the business, we strive to achieve effective governance the Audit Committee has again played a and the progress we have made in 2015. substantial role in ensuring appropriate I also trust that you will find our reports to governance and challenge around our risk be fair, balanced and understandable: this and assurance processes.
This is covered is a reflection of how we do business and in further detail on pages 21 to 24 and how the Board serves its stakeholders.
Full details of the work of the Board composition Audit Committee are detailed in the Audit During the year we were pleased to Committee Report on pages 38 to 41 and refresh our Board and add new skills by includes our intention to commence an appointing Franois Pauly as an Independent audit tendering process before June 2018.
Non-Executive Director and Dominik fide Board evaluation Daniel as an Executive Director holding the An external Board evaluation was performed combined role of Chief Financial Officer in respect of 2015, the process and results and Chief Operating Officer.
Douglas Sutherland Chairman In this section 31 Corporate governance 36 Nomination Committee report 38 Audit Committee report 42 Directors Remuneration report 53 Directors report 54 Directors statements 30 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Chairman ensures that each meeting The main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code relate covers an appropriate range of topics to leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and including operations, strategy, business development, special projects and relations with shareholders.
Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions and all Directors are encouraged to request UK Corporate Leadership inclusion in the Board minutes of any Role of the Board Governance Code unresolved concerns that they may have.
Your Board is collectively responsible for The UK Corporate Governance Code, The Board has a formal schedule of matters the long-term success of the Company.
as published by the Financial Reporting reserved for its decision and which cannot The Board sets the strategy for the Group Councilin September 2014 and available be delegated.
These include: and ensures that the necessary resources, on www.
uk the Code, sets measures and controls are in place to out a series of principles and provisions approval of long-term objectives and implement the agreed strategy and to documenting good practice in governance.
The Board also sets Our Corporate Governance Report is approval of the annual budget: the values and standards which form the structured to report against the main approval of regulatory announcements basis of the corporate culture at Regus.
principles of the Code, which relate to: including the interim and annual leadership: effectiveness: accountability: The Chairman sets the Board meeting financial statements: remuneration: and relations with schedule and agenda.
In 2015 the Board approval of terms of reference and shareholders.
Together with the Audit met eight times with all Directors present membership of the Board and Committee Report, the Nomination at every Board meeting.
Details of Board its Committees: Committee Report and the Directors membership throughout the year and Remuneration Report this Corporate attendance at meetings is set out below.
changes to the Groups capital structure: Governance Report shows how we have changes to the Groups management applied the principles of the Code during and control structure: Attendance 2015, when we complied with all the out of possible capital expenditure in excess of 5m: and provisions of the Code except in relation maximum number Members of meetings material contracts annual value in excess to Senior Independent Director contact with Douglas Sutherland, major shareholders.
Chairman 8 8 this is provided in our Compliance Statement Board Committees Lance Browne 8 8 on page 35.
Dominik fide Daniel 1 1 The Board is supported by the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee Mark Dixon 8 8 Elmar Heggen 8 8 and the Nomination Committee the Committees to which it has delegated Nina Henderson 8 8 Franois Pauly 5 5 certain powers.
The work of the Committees Florence Pierre 8 8 is further detailed on pages 36 to 52 and Alex Sulkowski 4 4 their terms of reference can be found on the Dominique Yates 7 7 Companys website: www.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to Dominik fide Daniel was appointed on 1 November 2015. all the Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
Franois Pauly was appointed on 19 May 2015.
Alex Sulkowski left the Board on 19 May 2015.
Dominique Yates stepped down on 1 November 2015. www.
com 31 Corporate Governance continued Re-election of the Board Development, information and support Effectiveness All Executive and Non-Executive Directors Appropriate training is made available for Board composition submit themselves for re-election by all new Directors to assist them in the The Board currently comprises the shareholders annually and Directors discharge of their duties.
All Directors Chairman, two Executive Directors and appointed during the period since the last have the opportunity to meet with major five Independent Non-Executive Directors.
annual general meeting are required to seek shareholders and have access to the Board composition and the composition of election at the next annual general meeting Companys operations and employees.
the Committees is regularly reviewed and under the Companys articles of association.
Training is provided on an ongoing basis to refreshed.
During 2015 Franois Pauly was Dominik fide Daniel, who was appointed in meet particular needs with the emphasis on appointed as a new Independent Non- 2015 after the last annual general meeting, governance and accounting developments.
Executive Director and Dominik fide Daniel will seek election at the 2016 annual During the year the Company Secretary was appointed as a new Executive Director general meeting.
provided updates to the Board on relevant holding the combined position of Chief governance matters, whilst the Audit Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Time commitment Committee regularly considers new The Board considers all Non-Executive In accordance with the terms of their accounting developments through Directors to be independent.
appointment agreements, the Chairman and presentations from management, all Non-Executive Directors are expected to The Board considers that its current internal business assurance and the allocate such time as is necessary for the composition continues to ensure that no externalauditors.
proper performance of their duties as individual or group dominates its decision Directors of the Company and are required The Board programme includes the receipt making process and that the Board has the to advise the Board if there is a change in of monthly Board reports and presentations right balance of skills to be able to discharge circumstances which will impact on the time given at Board meetings from management its duties effectively.
they are able to dedicate to the Company.
These, Board appointments and succession Copies of all Non-Executives appointment together with site visits, increase the The Board is satisfied that succession plans agreements are available for inspection at Non-Executive Directors understanding are in place for the orderly succession of the Companys Registered Office during of the business and sector.
appointments to the Board and to senior normal business hours and at the annual All Directors have access to the advice and management positions.
The Board has general meeting.
Details of other services of the Company Secretary, who established a Nomination Committee commitments held by the Directors are is responsible for ensuring that Board with responsibility for leading the process disclosed on pages 28 and 29. procedures, corporate governance and for Board appointments and succession regulatory compliance are followed and planning.
Further details of the Nomination complied with.
Appointment and removal Committees work and responsibilities are of the Company Secretary is a matter contained on page 36 and 37. reserved for theBoard.
Should a Director request independent professional advice to carry out his duties, such advice is available to him or her at the Companys expense.
Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Role of Board members There is a clear division of responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive at the head of the Company between the running of the Board and the running of The Chairman is responsible for leadership The Chief Executive is responsible for of the Board, setting its agenda and formulating strategy and for its delivery the Companys business.
No one individual Director has unfettered powers of decisionmonitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures once agreed by the Board.
He creates a effective communication with shareholders framework of strategy, values, organisation making and all Directors are required to act in the best interests of the Company.
and that the Board is aware of the views of and objectives to ensure the successful major shareholders.
He facilitates both the delivery of key targets, and allocates The Groups insurance programme is contribution of the Non-Executive Directors decision-making and responsibilities reviewed annually and appropriate insurance and constructive relations between the accordingly.
cover is obtained to protect the Directors Executive Directors and Non-Executive and senior management in the event of a Directors, and regularly meets with the claim being brought against any of them in Non-Executive Directors without the their capacity as Directors and Officers of Executive Directors being present.
addition, he oversees the corporate responsibility activities of the Group, including community projects and environmental impact initiatives.
32 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board performance evaluation Going concern Accountability An external evaluation of the Board was The Directors, having made appropriate Financial and business reporting carried out by an independent leadership enquiries, have a reasonable expectation In accordance with its responsibilities consultancy, Panthea, with experience in that the Group and the Company have the Board considers this Annual Report conducting such reviews.
Panthea also adequate resources to continue in and Accounts, taken as a whole to be fair, performed the last external review of the operational existence for a period of at balanced and understandable, providing board and was selected in order to have least 12 months from the date of approval the information necessary for shareholders the perspective on the development of of the financial statements.
For this reason to assess the Companys position and the Board during the period since the last they continue to adopt the going concern performance, business model and strategy.
Another independent basis in preparing the Accounts on A statement by the Companys auditor evaluator will be chosen for the next pages 55 to 105. about their responsibilities in relation to external Board review in order to bring In adopting the going concern basis for the Annual Report and Accounts is other viewpoints to the process.
The recent preparing the financial statements, the included on page 55. evaluation included a series of one-to-one Directors have considered the further The Board conducts regular reviews of discussions between the reviewer and each information included in the business the Groups strategic direction.
Country Board member and a review of Board activities commentary as set out on and regional strategic objectives, plans materials.
The evaluation results were pages 13 to 17, as well as the Groups and performance targets are set by the reviewed by the Board and suggestions principle risks and uncertainties as set Executive Directors and are regularly are being addressed in our efforts to out on pages 21 to 24. reviewed by the Board in the context of the continuously improve the processes Further details on the going concern basis Groups overall objectives.
Further details of and effectiveness of the Board and its of preparation can be found in note 24 the basis on which the Company generates Committees.
No reportable matters were of the notes to the accounts on page 81. and preserves value over the longer term noted by the evaluation and we continue and the strategy for delivering the objectives to have full confidence in the Boards of the Company are contained in the members and processes.
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 27.
The Senior Independent Director annually leads the Non-Executive Directors performance evaluation of the Chairman taking the views of the Executive Directors into account.
Lance Browne Non-Executive Directors Lynsey Blair Senior Independent Director Company Secretary The Senior Independent Director acts The Non-Executive Directors each bring The Company Secretary is responsible for as a sounding board and confidant for their own senior-level experience and advising the Board, through the Chairman, the Chairman, as an intermediary for objectivity to the Board.
The independent on all governance matters and ensuring that other Directors as necessary and leads the counsel and challenge brought to the Group appropriate minutes are taken of all Board appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
by the Non-Executive Directors enhances meetings and discussions.
He is also available to shareholders if they the development of strategy and the have concerns that cannot be resolved overall decision making of the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management and are responsible for determining appropriate levels of executive remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to the re-election requirements and serve the Company under letters of appointment, which have an initial three-year term.
com 33 Corporate Governance continued Longer term viability Internal control systems Remuneration The Directors have also assessed the The Board has delegated its responsibility Remuneration Committee viability of the Group and Company over a for the Companys system of internal control The Board has established a Remuneration three-year period to 31 December 2018. and risk management and for ensuring the Committee with responsibility for the design This is based on three years of strategic effectiveness of this system to the Audit and implementation of the remuneration outlook and planning and related stress Committee.
Details of the system and the policy for both Executive Directors and the scenario testing.
Whilst the Board has no Committees review of its effectiveness Chairman.
In doing so the Committee will pay reason to believe that the Group will not be are reported on pages 39 and 40. due regard to wider remuneration trends viable over a longer period, using a threeacross the Group, legal requirements and Audit Committee and auditors year period was chosen to give greater The Board has established an Audit best corporate governance.
The aim is to certainty over the assumptions used.
ensure our Remuneration Policy is aligned to Committee consisting entirely of In making their assessment, the Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Company strategy, key business objectives took account of the further information and the best interests of our shareholders The Audit Committee has responsibility for included in the business activities ensuring the integrity of financial information and stakeholders.
Further details of the commentary as set out on pages 13 to Remuneration Committees work is and the effectiveness of financial controls 17, as well as the Groups principal risks and the internal control and risk contained on pages 42 to 52.
Although and uncertainties and related mitigation management system.
Further details not required under Luxembourg law, but approaches as set out on pages 21 to 24. of the Audit Committees work and in order to maintain transparency, approval They assessed potential financial and responsibilities are contained on for the Companys Remuneration Policy and operational aspects of various severe but pages 38 to 41. the Annual Report on Remuneration will be plausible scenarios in the context of these sought at the annual general meeting.
All members of the Audit Committee principle risks and uncertainties and potential are considered by the Board to be combinations thereof along with the likely independent in character and judgement effectiveness of available mitigating actions.
and are competent in accounting and or Based on this assessment, the Directors auditing.
Furthermore, and in compliance have a reasonable expectation that the with the Code, the Board regards Elmar Group and Company will be able to continue Heggen as the Committee member in operation and meet all their liabilities possessing recent and relevant as they fall due over the period up to financial experience.
On recommendation of the Audit Principal risks Committee it is intended that the external The Board is responsible for assessing audit contract should be put out to tender the nature and extent of the principal risks before June 2018 and it is proposed that it is willing to take to achieve its strategic KPMG be re-appointed as the auditor for objectives.
The key risks to the Group and the financial year ending 31 December 2016. the steps taken to manage and mitigate them which were reviewed and approved by the Board are detailed on pages 21 to 24.
The Board has delegated authority for overseeing and reviewing the process of identifying, managing and reviewing risks to the Audit Committee which reports regularly to the Board.
Control environment A clearly defined An induction process Provision to all team High standards of behaviour are demanded organisation structure to educate new team members of a copy from staff at all levels in the Group.
with established members on the of the Team Member Thefollowing procedures are in responsibilities: standards required Handbook which place to support this: from them in their contains detailed role, including business guidance on employee ethics and compliance, policies and the regulations and standards of behaviour internalpolicies: required of staff: 34 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements given the opportunity to meet the Non-Executive Director is able to gain full Relations with Directors informally afterwards.
awareness of the issues and concerns of Shareholders major shareholders.
Notwithstanding this Notice of the annual general meeting Dialogue with shareholders policy, all Directors have a standing together with any related documents is The Company reports formally to invitation to participate in meetings required to be mailed to shareholders at shareholders twice a year, with the half-year with investors.
least 30 clear days before the meeting results typically announced in August and and separate resolutions are proposed Agreement with controlling the preliminary final results in March.
shareholder are programmes for the Chief Executive On 23 September 2014, Mark Dixon entered The voting in respect of all resolutions to and the Chief Financial Officer and Chief into a Relationship Agreement with the be put to the annual general meeting is Operating Officer to give presentations of Company so as to comply with Listing Rule conducted by means of a poll vote.
these results to the Companys institutional LR 9.2.
2A 2 a, which came into effect on investors, analysts and media in London The level of proxy votes cast and the balance 16 May 2014.
The following undertakings and other key locations.
for and against each resolution, together were given by Mark Dixon: with the level of abstentions, if any, are The Chief Executive and the Chief all transactions and relationships with any announced following voting on a poll.
Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer member of the Group will be conducted Where the Board considers that a significant maintain a close dialogue with institutional on arms length terms and on a normal proportion of votes have been cast against investors on the Companys performance, commercial basis: a resolution, the actions which the Board governance, plans and objectives.
These intends to take to understand the reasons no action will be taken that would have meetings also serve to develop an ongoing behind the vote result will also be explained.
the effect of preventing the Company understanding of the views and any concerns from complying with its obligations Financial and other information is made of the Companys major shareholders.
under the Listing Rules: and available on the Companys website: On 6 October 2015 Regus hosted a Capital www.
no resolution will be proposed, or procured Markets Day, which focussed on providing to be proposed, which is intended to, or information to investors on the Groups Compliance statement appears to be intended to, circumvent the strategy and operations.
The Company has complied with the proper application of the Listing Rules.
provisions of the Code throughout the Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views of institutional year ended 31 December 2015, with The Company confirms that it has complied the exception of the following: shareholders.
The Chairman attends the with its obligations under the Relationship main presentations of the half year and Provision E. 1.1 The Senior Independent Agreement during the financial period full year results and is also available to under review, and that so far as it is aware Non-Executive Director Lance Browne meet with shareholders on request.
does not have regular meetings with all other parties to that agreement have complied with it.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Annual Report, The Board considers it appropriate for The Company confirms that there are the half-year results and the annual no contracts of significance between the Chairman to be the main conduit general meeting.
to investors, rather than the Senior Mark Dixon and any member of the Group, with the exception of Mark Dixons service The Company continues to engage the Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman participates in investor agreement as a Director of the Company, services of Brunswick as its investor the terms of which are outlined in the relationsadviser.
meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major Directors Remuneration Report.
Annual general meeting announcements as well as upon request.
The annual general meeting each year is held The Chairman regularly updates the Board in May in Luxembourg and is attended, other and particularly the Senior Independent than in exceptional circumstances, by all Non-Executive Director on the results members of the Board.
In addition to the of his meetings and the opinions of formal business of the meeting, there is investors.
On this basis, the Board normally a trading update and shareholders considers that the Senior Independent are invited to ask questions and are also Policies and procedure Operational audit and To underpin the manuals and guidelines self-certification tools effectiveness of controls, that are readily which require individual it is the Groups policy accessible through the centre managers to to recruit and develop Groups intranet site: confirm their adherence appropriately skilled to Group policies and management and procedures: and staff of high calibre and integrityand with .
