76 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Report of the Nominations Committee This report has been prepared by the joint Nominations The Committee seeks to ensure that the Boards and their Committee of RELX PLC and RELX NV and has been approved Committees comprise an appropriate balance of skills, bythe respective Boards.
experience, independence, knowledge of RELX Groups businesses, and diversity, including gender.
The Committee has established a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Committee membership recruitment of candidates to the Boards and recommendations bythe Committee are made on the basis of a candidates merit, The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits During 2015, the Committee met four times.
Anthony Habgood Committee Chairman The Committee retained Kingsley Gate Partners LLP and Lisa Hook TheZygos Partnership, independent recruitment consultancies specialising in non-executive appointments with no other Ben van der Veer connection to RELX Group, to carry out a search for new Wolfhart Hauser from 21 July 2015 Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee worked closely with theconsultants and, following a rigorous process of assessment and interviews, recommended to the Boards, in February 2016, that Carol Mills and Robert MacLeod be proposed for election Role of the Committee asNon-Executive Directors at the Annual General Meetings inApril2016.
The principal role of the Committee is to provide assistance tothe Boards by identifying individuals qualified to become In light of the forthcoming retirement of Ms Hook and Mr Polet, directors and recommending to the Boards the appointment theCommittee also undertook, in consultation with the Corporate of such individuals.
The responsibilities of the Committee Governance Committee, a comprehensive review of the areset out in written terms of reference available at composition of the Board Committees.
This was to ensure that, www.
com and include: asthe Boards and their Committees are refreshed during 2016, anappropriate level of experience and knowledge of the Group to keep under review the size and composition of the Boards ismaintained and to allow for an orderly transition of to develop and agree the specification for the recruitment responsibilities.
of new directors Conflicts of interest to procure the recruitment of new directors During the year, the Committee monitored Directors conflicts of to recommend to the Boards the appointment of interest in respect of their outside appointments, and undertook candidates subject, where appropriate, to the approval of an annual review of these.
No actual conflicts were identified.
shareholders of RELX PLC and RELX NV However, situations were identified which could potentially give rise to a conflict of interest, and the Boards authorised those to recommend Directors to serve on the Committees of the situations and put in place appropriate procedures to manage Boards, having regard to the criteria for service on each anypotential conflicts at the recommendation of the Committee.
committee as set out in the terms of reference for such More information on conflicts of interest can be found in the RELX committees, and to recommend members to serve as the PLC Directors Report on page 150.
Chair of those Committees to make recommendations to the Boards in relation to the Director re-elections election or re-election of Directors at the Annual General The Committee also recommended to the Boards the re-election Meetings of RELX PLC and RELX NV of the Directors and in doing so took into account the outcome of the Board evaluation.
Details of the 2015 Board evaluation can be to review and make recommendations to the Boards found on page 71. inrelation to any Directors actual or potential conflicts ofinterest Diversity Following the appointment of Ms van Lier Lels as a Non-Executive Composition of the Boards and their Committees Director of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc, membership of the During the year, the main areas of focus for the Committee were: RELX Boards was fully aligned during 2015 and the Boards are the appointment of Marike van Lier Lels as a Non-Executive currently comprised of 30% women.
The charts on page 72 Director of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc Ms van Lier Lels illustrate in more detail the composition of the Boards.
Details of having served as a Non-Executive Director of RELX NV the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion in its workforce since2010 can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 46. succession planning in relation to the forthcoming retirement of two long-serving Non-Executive Directors from the Boards, Lisa Hook and Robert Polet, both of whom are retiring from theBoards in April 2016, including the appointment in 2016 of a successor Senior Independent Director reviewing the composition of the Board Committees in light ofthe retirement of the two long-serving Board members.
