62 Nomination Committee Report Role of the Committee John McAdam Chairman, The Committee has delegated authority from the Board as set out in its Nomination Committee terms of reference.
The primary purpose of the Committee is to ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken and to recommend any changes to the composition of the Board and its Committees and to instigate and manage recruitment processes.
Material findings and recommendations are reported at the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes of meetings are circulated to all Directors where appropriate.
The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed by the Committee during 2015 and are available at www.
com Dear Fellow Shareholder Composition of the Committee The Nomination Committee provides a focus for the key task of The composition of the Committee and attendance at meetings in ensuring that the Board continues to comprise a group of individuals 2015is shown in the chart on page 53.
The Committee met formally who work effectively together as a team and who possess the right twice during the year.
All Non-executive Directors were invited to mix of experience and talent to provide effective oversight and participate in meetings of the Committee in 2015 and, from 2016 challenge to management.
onwards, for the reasons described in this Chairmans letter it was Although there have been no changes to the Board in 2015, the decided to extend the membership of the Committee to all Committee has periodically reviewed the composition of the Board Non-executive Directors.
and tenure of Board members.
It has formulated a succession plan to Appointment process bring new, diverse skills and experience progressively onto the Board in 2016 when Peter Bamford will step down and beyond.
This Our policy on appointments to the Board is set out in the Corporate reflects and supports the current and developing shape of the Governance Report on page 49.
In brief, all appointments are made on business, notably its international scope and scale.
For example, as merit against objective criteria and the process is usually supported the Company continues to grow rapidly in North America and Asia, through the use of an external recruitment consultant.
This process was and invests in technology and innovation to maintain leadership in its followed most recently over the appointment of Julie Southern in 2014, business, it will be increasingly important for the Board to be able to and is also being followed for the current process to replace Peter access deep, relevant experience of those markets within its Bamford in May 2016.
The process typically commences with the membership, in order to provide an appropriate level of support and selection of a suitable recruitment consultant, who will be briefed on the challenge to the executive.
In order to benefit from as broad as skill sets and candidate experience we were seeking to attract.
possible insight and experience as we reflect on these challenges, we Therecruitment consultant Korn Ferry in the case of Julie Southern and have decided to extend formal membership of the Committee to all Odgers Berndtson for the recruitment of a successor to Peter Bamford the Non-executive Directors from 2016 onwards.
in May 2016, then prepares a candidate specification for approval by the Committee.
Thereafter potential candidates are identified, interviews The Committee continued to review the development of the senior take place with members of the Committee, with other Non-executive cadre of executives in the Company, and the Board programme in Directors and with Executive Directors, following which the Nomination 2015 has enabled all Board members to meet over 90% of the Committee forms a recommendation for consideration by the Board.
members of the Senior Leadership Forum as well as senior executives A similar process is undertaken when external candidates are under in key operational and functional roles beyond that group.
This has consideration for Executive Leadership Team roles, such as the enhanced the depth of understanding of the succession plans within appointment of Vanessa Evans as Group HR Director following the the Company.
It has been encouraged by the improved stability and retirement of Martin Sawkins at the end of 2015. performance of the senior management team in 2015 compared to previous years.
Diversity The Committees report on the year follows.
The Board remains of the firm view that in order to secure the best talent for the Board, or within the business, it is essential to draw on the Yours faithfully widest possible talent pool, and our diversity policy requires selection from diverse, objective and purely merit-based shortlists.
Diversity enriches debate and problem solving at Board level and enhances operational performance as well as governance processes.
The Board meets the Davies Reports targets for more balanced gender representation.
John McAdam We continue to focus on encouraging diversity and business skills and Chairman, Nomination Committee experience throughout the group, recognising that Directors and leaders 24 February 2016 in our businesses with diverse skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the effectiveness of the organisation.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 63 Nomination Committee Report The gender breakdown for the group as a whole 31,442 colleagues at the Activities of the Committee in 2015 end of 2015 and for the senior management population some 1,451 Matters considered by the Committee in 2015 included: colleagues is provided in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 38.
A review of the Committees report within the 2014 Annual Report and recommended approval to the Board: Director induction process Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, in A review of Board succession planning, including key skills and conjunction with the Company Secretary and Group HR Director, ensures experience to prioritise in the search for new Directors, and formulation that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is made available.
of a forward multi-year succession plan: The induction process is summarised below: A review of the Committees effectiveness which was externally On appointment the Company Secretary provides information on the facilitated by Lintstock, an independent corporate governance groups businesses, including: consultancy: Board and relevant Committee minutes and Board papers from the A review of the potential conflicts of interest authorised by the Board and prioryear: a review of the processes in place to ensure that potential conflicts are properly considered: and Key policies and procedures, and governance information about the Company, including the role of the Board, Board and Executive A review of the performance of individual Directors, utilising the output Committees, Chairman and Chief Executive: and from the Board evaluation process, and making recommendations to the Board over the re-election of Directors at the AGM.
Guidance for Directors on their legal and regulatory responsibilities in a UK publicly listed company, including briefings, on request, from the Committee effectiveness Companys external legal advisors.
The Committee conducted a review of how it operates, which concluded Before and after the first Board meeting the new Director will attend: that the Committee had operated effectively in 2015.
The Committee noted that in 2016 its attention would continue to be focused on Business briefings with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director rotation as well as broader executive and Board Meetings with other members of the Executive Leadership Team and succession planning.
senior management Visits to sites within the UK and or overseas, including opportunities to spend time with frontline staff in the course of their duties Meetings with the auditor, financial advisors and corporate brokers John McAdam Chairman, Nomination Committee 24 February 2016 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
