Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 69 Corporate Governance Corporate governance compliance The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV have implemented standards Roles of the Directors of corporate governance and disclosure policies applicable to Chairman companies listed on the London, Amsterdam and New York stock Leads the Boards, ensuring they function efficiently exchanges.
The effect of this is that a standard applying to one will, where not in conflict, also be observed by theother.
Promotes high standards of corporate governance The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV support the principles and Sets the agenda and chairs meetings of the Boards provisions of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Chairs the Nominations and Corporate Governance Governance Code 2014 the UK Code and the Dutch Corporate Committees Governance Code 2008 the Dutch Code.
This report and the compliance statement set out below are made in relation to the Ensures effective dialogue with shareholders UKCode.
The principles and provisions set out in the UK Code Facilitates effective communication among Directors andthe Dutch Code have applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
Ensures the performance of the Boards is assessed annually RELX PLC, which has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, has complied throughout the year with the UK Code.
Ensures effective induction and development of Directors RELX NV, which has its primary listing on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange, has also complied throughout Chief Executive Officer theyear with the UK Code and, subject to limited exceptions, Day-to-day management of the Group hasapplied the best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
Develops the Groups strategy and commercial objectives The ways in which RELX PLC and RELX NV have applied the Ensures that the strategy and decisions of the Boards mainprinciples of the UK Code are described below.
For further areimplemented information on the application of the Dutch Code by RELX NV, seethe Corporate Governance Statement of RELX NV which Promotes high standards of corporate governance isavailable on our website, www.
com Informs and advises the Chairman and Nominations Committee on executive succession planning The Boards Leads communication with shareholders Board composition and roles The Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc the Chief Financial Officer Boards are unitary boards and are comprised of the same Supports the Chief Executive Officer in developing and Directors.
The names of each Director, their roles on the Boards implementing strategy in relation to the financial and and their biographical details at the date of this report appear operational performance of the Group onpages 64 and 65.
Senior Independent Director The Boards currently comprise the Chairman, two Executive Leads the annual assessment of the performance of Directors and seven independent Non-Executive Directors, theChairman whobring a wide range of skills and experience to their roles.
Thecharts on page 72 illustrate in more detail the composition Available to meet with shareholders on matters where ofthe Boards.
usual channels are deemed inappropriate A profile which identifies the skills and experience of the Deputises for the Chairman, as necessary Non-Executive Directors is set out on page 71 and is available Acts as an intermediary between the other Directors onourwebsite, www.
com There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Boards and Non-Executive Directors approved delegated authorities to the Chief Executive Officer and Constructively challenge and provide advice to the other senior executives.
There is a clear separation of the roles Executive Directors ofthe Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which are set out Effectively contribute to the development of strategy in writing.
The adjacent table illustrates the key responsibilities ofthe Directors.
Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and monitor the delivery of Group strategy Serve as members of Board Committees The Boards have established a number of Committees, to which certain powers have been delegated.
The roles of the Board Committees are summarised on page 72.
70 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Key activities of the Boards As announced in February 2016, the changes set out below will be In 2015, the Boards considered the following: made to the composition of the Boards following the conclusion of the RELX NV and RELX PLC Annual General Meetings in April 2016: reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer on the Groups operational and financial performance Lisa Hook will retire from the Boards.
Ms Hook has served strategic and business presentations, including two full-day as a Non-Executive Director since April 2006 and is a member strategy reviews of the Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate Governance Committees.
She has served as the Senior Independent annual and interim results, and dividend declarations Director since 2013. the Groups corporate structure simplification project Robert Polet will retire from the Boards.
Mr Polet has served budgets and annual strategy plan 2015-2018 as a Non-Executive Director since April 2007 and is a member risk management reviews and ongoing risk monitoring of the Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committees.
Board succession and executive talent management Dr Wolfhart Hauser, who joined the Boards in 2013, will be appointments to the Boards and Board Committees appointed as Senior Independent Director.
information security update Carol Mills will join the Boards as a Non-Executive Director, the Groups revised Code of Ethics and Business Conduct subject to election by shareholders.
Ms Mills is a US citizen with investor relations activities a strong background in the enterprise software and technology sectors.
She currently chairs the board of Xactly Corporation, litigation update and also serves on the boards of Ingram Micro and WhiteHat updates on major acquisitions, investments and disposals Security.
She previously served on the boards of Adobe reports from the Committee Chairmen on the key activities Systems, Alaska Communications, Tekelec Corporation ofthe Board Committees andBlue Coat Systems.
Prior to that, Ms Mills spent more than25 years in executive leadership positions with companies Independence of the Non-Executive Directors such as Juniper Networks and Hewlett-Packard.
The Boards review the independence of the Non-Executive Directors every year, based on the criteria for independence set out Robert MacLeod will join the Boards as a Non-Executive in the UK Code.
The UK Code does not consider the Chairman to be Director, subject to election by shareholders.
Mr MacLeod is independent due to the unique role he has in corporate governance.
aBritish citizen with considerable international experience in Notwithstanding this, Anthony Habgood met the independence the engineering and chemicals sectors.
He is currently chief criteria contained in the UK Code when he was appointed Chairman executive of Johnson Matthey Plc, the FTSE100 speciality in 2009.
The Boards consider all Non-Executive Directors other chemicals company and global leader in sustainable than the Chairman to be independent of management and free technologies, and a non-executive director at Aggreko plc.
from any business or other relationship which could materially Until 2009, Mr MacLeod was group finance director at interfere with their ability to exercise independent judgement.
WSAtkins plc, and prior to that held a variety of senior finance and M&A roles with Enterprise Oil plc in the UK and US.
Terms of appointment RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders maintain their rights to In accordance with the articles of association of RELX PLC, appoint individuals to the respective Boards in accordance with Directors are normally subject to election by shareholders at the the provisions of the articles of association of these companies.
first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Subject to this, no individual may be appointed to the Boards Board.
Accordingly, Ms van Lier Lels will stand for election at unless recommended by the joint Nominations Committee.
theRELX PLC 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Members of the Committee abstain when their own In accordance with the UK Code, all Directors will retire from the re-appointment is being considered.
Boards of RELX NV and RELX PLC at the respective Annual General As a general rule, Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Meetings and, other than those retiring in 2016, will offer themselves provide that individuals will serve for an initial term of three years, for re-election.
Based on the review of performance and effectiveness and are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although made by the Corporate Governance Committee of each individual the Boards may invite an individual to serve for an additional period seeking re-election, the Boards have accepted a recommendation of three years.
The notice period applicable to Non-Executive from the Nominations Committee that each of these Directors be Directors is one month.
proposed for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting of the respective company.
Details of the annual evaluation of the Boards, The notice period applicable to the service contracts of the Committees and Directors are set out on page 71.
In compliance with the UK Code, all Directors seek re-election Board induction and development byshareholders annually, except for those Directors retiring Following appointment and as required, Directors receive immediately after the respective Annual General Meetings.
trainingappropriate to their level of experience and knowledge.
This includes the provision of a comprehensive briefing pack Board changes and a tailored induction programme so as to provide newly Changes during the year in the composition of the Boards and appointed Directors with information about the Groups Board Committees are set out in the table on page 73. businesses and other relevant information to assist them In 2015, membership of the Boards was fully aligned by the in performing their duties.
Non-Executive Directors are appointment of Marike van Lier Lels as a Non-Executive Director encouraged to visit the Groups businesses to meet of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc.
Ms van Lier Lels has served managementand senior staff.
as a Non-Executive Director of RELX NV since 2010.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 71 On joining the Boards of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc as a quality of information provided by management, and Board Non-Executive Director in July 2015, Marike van Lier Lels received Committee effectiveness.
The Chairman conducted interviews a briefing on the obligations and responsibilities of directors of with each of the Directors.
UKlisted companies, to complement her considerable knowledge The review of the performance of the Chairman of the Boards and experience of serving on the boards of Dutch companies.
wasled by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman was Onjoining the Audit Committees, Ms van Lier Lels undertook a notpresent during a discussion by the Non-Executive Directors comprehensive audit committee induction programme, designed asit related to him.
to ensure familiarisation with the Committees oversight responsibilities in relation to the Groups financial reporting, The conclusions of the review were subsequently considered at internal control and audit processes.
This programme included ameeting of the Boards.
internal briefings from senior management and external meetings with corporate advisers.
Conclusions of the 2015 review The review confirmed that overall, the Directors believed In addition to scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings thatthe Boards remain highly engaged and committed, held during the year, the Directors attend other meetings and andcontribute strongly to the development of the Groups sitevisits to support their continuing development.
All Directors commended the Chairman on his effective leadership of the Boards, noting that he continues Board information and support tofoster a supportive culture that facilitates the valuable All Directors have full and timely access to the information contribution of each member.
The Non-Executive Directors required to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
also demonstrated unanimous support and respect for They have access to the services of the respective Company executive management.
An area of continued focus for the Secretaries, other members of the Groups management and Boards in 2016 is non-executive succession, to ensure an staff, and external advisers.
Directors may take independent appropriate level of experience and knowledge of the Group professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the is maintained as Board membership evolves.
Where a Director is unable to attend a Board or Board Committee Based on the findings of the review, the Corporate Governance meeting, he or she is provided with all relevant papers and Committee believes that the Boards and their Committees information relating to that meeting and is able to discuss issues function effectively and collaboratively and with an appropriate arising with the respective chairman and other Board and level of engagement with management.
The Committee also Committee members.
believes that the performance of each Director continues to beeffective and that they demonstrate commitment to their Board evaluation respective roles.
Each year the Boards undertake an annual evaluation of their own effectiveness and performance, and that of their Committees and Progress made during 2015 in response to 2014 review individual Directors.
In 2014, the review was facilitated externally.
recommendations In 2015, the Boards undertook an internal evaluation, overseen The review confirmed that good progress is being made in bythe Corporate Governance Committee and supported by the response to the prior years recommendations, to: Company Secretaries.
further refine the Boards time allocation Using questionnaires completed by all Directors, the Committee continue its engagement with individual business areas explored key areas including: the performance of the Boards: and their strategies through senior management dialogue Board composition and succession planning: talent management and executive leadership succession: risk management, increase its involvement in talent management corporate governance and compliance: agenda planning and Percentage of the Areas of significant skills and expertise of the Non-Executive Directors on the Boards Non-Executive Directors Knowledge of corporate governance issues for listed companies 100% Operational experience in the Groups main geographical markets 100% Human resource management and executive remuneration 100% Corporate responsibility 100% Corporate strategy and organisation 100% Marketing and customer relations 88% Legal matters 88% Financial and organisational audit 75% Executive board experience in a large international listed company 63% Operational experience in the telecommunications and information technology sectors 63% Operational experience in the Groups product markets 38% Banking, tax and corporate finance 38% 72 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Board Committees The Boards have established a number of Committees, to which they have delegated certain powers.
The structure of these Committees, and a summary of their key responsibilities, is set out below.
All the Committees have written terms of reference, which are available on our website: www.
com Membership of each Committee and attendance during the year is set out on page 73.
The Boards Audit Committees Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Corporate Governance Responsible for the oversight Responsible for considering the Responsible for keeping Committee offinancial reporting, risk remuneration of the Group's underreview the composition Responsible for reviewing management and internal Executive Directors and the ofthe Boards and the Board ongoing developments and control policies, and the Chairman, and advising on Committees, and the bestpractice in corporate effectiveness of the internal remuneration of senior recruitment of new Directors.
governance, assessing the andexternal audit processes.
The Committee comprises performance of the Directors, The Committees comprise only The Committee comprises only onlyNon-Executive Directors.
and monitoring the structure, independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors.
operation and membership of Directors.
The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
Report of the Audit Directors' Remuneration Report of the Nominations Committees page 91 Report page 77 Committee page 76 BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GENDER DIVERSITY Executive: 2 Female: 3 Chairman: 1 Non-Executive: 7 Male: 7 LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NATIONALITY OF DIRECTORS Swedish: 1 Over nine years: 1 One to three years: 2 German: 1 British: 3 Seven to nine years: 1 American: 2 Dutch: 3 Four to six years: 3 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 73 Attendance at meetings of the Boards and Board Committees The table below shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Boards and the Board Committees during the year.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Committee Corporate 1 Director appointments Boards Audit Remuneration Nominations Governance Anthony Habgood Chairman 6 6 2 2 4 4 4 4 R N C Erik Engstrom 6 6 Nick Luff 6 6 2 Wolfhart Hauser 6 6 2 2 1 1 4 4 R N C Board Committee Adrian Hennah A C 6 6 7 7 4 4 membership key 3 Lisa Hook R N C 5 6 1 2 4 4 3 4 A Audit 4 Marike van Lier Lels 6 6 2 2 4 4 A C R Remuneration Robert Polet R C 6 6 2 2 4 4 N Nominations Linda Sanford A 6 6 7 7 4 4 C C Corporate Governance Ben van der Veer A 6 6 7 7 4 4 4 4 N C Committee Chairman 1 T he Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc.
In addition to the six scheduled meetings above, in 2015 all Directors attended an additional RELX Group plc Board meeting and two full-day strategy and business review meetings 2 Dr Hauser was appointed as a member of the Nominations Committee on 21 July 2015 3 M s Hook was unable to attend the July Boards and Corporate Governance Committee meetings, and the December Remuneration Committee meeting, due to long-standing diary conflicts 4 M s van Lier Lels was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc, and as a member of the Audit Committees, on 21 July 2015.
She has served asa Non-Executive Director of RELX NV since 2010 Shareholder engagement Business model RELX PLC and RELX NV participate in regular dialogue with Pages 2 to 62 describe the business and the progress made in institutional shareholders.
Presentations on the Groups 2015against the Groups long-term business priorities, aimed businesses are made by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and atdelivering better outcomes for our customers and creating Chief Financial Officer following the announcement of the interim value for the Group and shareholders.
and full-year results and these are simultaneously webcast.
Aconference call with investors was also held following the third Internal control and risk management quarter trading update for 2015.
In addition, two teach-ins were RELX Group has established internal controls and risk held for analysts and investors during the year and were also made management practices that are embedded into the operations available on our website, www.
com The first presentation ofthe businesses, based on the Internal Control Integrated focused on developments in primary research in the Scientific, Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Technical & Medical business, and the second focused on the Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
Details of application of technology across RELX Group.
theprincipal risks facing the Group and how these are mitigated The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the are set out on pages 60 to 62. investor relations team meet institutional shareholders on a Additionally, in order to provide reasonable assurance against regular basis and the Chairman also makes himself available to material inaccuracies or loss, and on the effectiveness of the major institutions as appropriate.
Trading updates are provided systems of internal control and risk management, the Group has ahead of the Annual General Meetings of the two companies and adopted the three lines of defence assurance model shown overleaf.
towards the end of the financial year.
The interim and annual results announcements and presentations, together with the Parent companies trading updates, other important announcements and corporate The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV have each adopted a governance documents concerning the Group, are available on schedule of matters which are required to be brought to them ourwebsite.
In accordance with the provisions of the Dutch Code, fordecision.
During 2015, the Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV RELXNV has adopted a bilateral shareholder contact policy, exercised independent supervisory roles over the activities and whichis also available on our website.
systems of internal control of RELX Group plc.
The Boards of The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV commission periodic RELXPLC and RELX NV also approved the strategy and the annual reports on the attitudes and views of the companies institutional budgets of RELX Group plc, and received regular reports on its shareholders and the results are presented to the respective Boards.
operations, including the treasury and risk management activities.
Major transactions proposed by the Board of RELX Group plc Annual General Meetings required the approval of the Boards of both RELX PLC and RELX NV.
The Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the Boards The RELX PLC and RELX NV Audit Committees met on a regular to communicate with individual shareholders.
The Chairman, the basis to review the systems of internal control and risk Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the chairmen management of RELX Group plc.
ofthe Board Committees, other Directors and a representative ofthe external auditors are available to answer questions from As reported in the 2014 Annual Report, RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders.
Both RELX PLC and RELX NV offer electronic voting transferred their direct ownership interests in Elsevier Reed facilities in relation to proxy voting at shareholder meetings.
Finance BV to RELX Group plc in February 2015.
As a consequence, the Audit Committee of RELX Group plc has assumed 74 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Withthe close involvement of business management and central functions, the risk management and control procedures ensure 1st Line of Defence that the Group is managing its business risks effectively and in a Group businesses maintain systems of internal co-ordinated manner across the businesses with clarity on the control which are appropriate to the nature and respective responsibilities and interdependencies.
Litigation and scale of their activities and address all significant other legal regulatory matters are managed by legal directors in strategic, operational, financial and legal the business.
compliance risks that they face.
The RELX Group plc Audit Committee receives regular reports onthe identification and management of material risks and reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives regular 2nd Line of Defence reports from both internal and external auditors on internal Central functions that are responsible for 1 control andrisk management matters.
In addition, each business designing policies, 2 introducing and sharing best area isrequired, at the end of the financial year, to review the practice, 3 monitoring and evaluating compliance effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and with RELX policies and relevant legislation and report its findings on a detailed basis to the management of RELX regulation and appropriate remediation.
These reports are summarised and, as part of the annual review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any 3rd Line of Defence significant internal control matters arising.
Internal and external auditors provide independent assurance on the effectiveness of the 1st and 2nd Annual review lines of defence.
As part of the year-end procedures, the Audit Committees and Boards reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management, including the Groups willingness totake on risk, during the last financial year.
The objective of these The Boards and Audit Committees systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards have confirmed, subject to the responsibility for reviewing the systems of internal control and above, that as regards financial reporting risks, the respective risk management of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
risk management and control systems provide reasonable assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have RELX Group plc functioned properly during the year.
The Board of RELX Group plc is responsible for the system of riskmanagement and internal control of the Group and has implemented an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, Responsibilities in respect of the monitoring and managing the principal risks faced by its businesses.
financialstatements This process was in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and up to the date of the approvals of the The Directors of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc are AnnualReports and Financial Statements 2015.
The Board monitors required to prepare financial statements as at the end of each these systems of internal control and risk management and annually financial period, in accordance with applicable law and regulations, carries out a review of their effectiveness.
which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, and of the profit RELX Group plc has an established framework of procedures and or loss, of the respective companies and their subsidiaries, joint internal control, with which the management of each business is ventures and associates.
They are responsible for maintaining required to comply.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters proper accounting records, for safeguarding assets, and for taking that are required to be brought to it for decision.
reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for selecting suitable accounting RELX Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that policies and applying them on a consistent basis, and making provides a guide for achieving its business goals and requires judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
officers and employees to behave in an open, honest, ethical andprincipled manner.
The Code also outlines confidential Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the procedures enabling employees to report any concerns about RELX Group consolidated financial statements, which are the compliance, or about the Groups financial reporting practice.
responsibility of the Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV, are TheCode is available on our website, www.
com prepared using accounting policies which comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Each business area has identified and evaluated its principal risks, the controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of Having taken into account all the matters considered by the residual risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures Boards and brought to the attention of the Boards, the Directors are embedded into the operations of the business and include the are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the management and board attention.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The principal risks facing RELX Group businesses are regularly reported to and assessed by the Board and Audit Committee.
RELX Group Operating and Governance Principles System of Internal Control Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 75 Going concern US certificates The Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV, having made appropriate As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the Group andby related rules issued by the US Securities and Exchange tocontinue in operational existence for the foreseeable future Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial andthat, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern Officer of RELX PLC and RELX NV certify in the respective Annual basis in preparing the 2015 financial statements.
In reaching this Reports 2015 on Form 20-F to be filed with the Commission that conclusion, the Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV have had due they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure regard to the Groups financial position as at 31December 2015, controls and procedures and that they have: the strong free cash flow of the Group, the Groups ability to access designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure capital markets and the principal risks facing the Group.
that material information relating to the Group is made known A commentary on the Groups cash flows, financial position and to them liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2015 is set out in the Chief evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls Financial Officers report on pages 54 to 59.
This shows that after and procedures taking account of available cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up short-term borrowings, all of the Groups based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees borrowings that mature within the next two years can be covered.
and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the The Groups policies on liquidity, capital management and design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management and credit exposures are set out on pages 125 to 129.
The principal or other employees who have a significant role in the Groups risks facing the Group are set out on pages 60 to 62. internal controls presented in the RELX Group Annual Report 2015 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure Viability statement controls and procedures In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that RELX PLC and RELX NV and other senior managers of the Group, the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as provides assurance to the Chief Executive Officer and they fall due, for the next three years.
The assessment period ChiefFinancial Officer regarding their Section 302 certifications.
aligns with the Groups annual strategy plan which covers a period of three years from the current year.
Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of RELX PLC and In support of their assessment, the Directors receive regular RELX NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports 2015 on updates from management on treasury, tax, acquisitions and Form20-F that they are responsible for maintaining adequate divestments and periodic briefings on significant risk areas internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting including information security, technology and legal and and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
In addition, Directors periodically receive conclusions ofthe assessment of internal control structures and updates from business area management on their operations, financial reporting procedures, which are unqualified, are prospects and risks over the three year strategic planning period.
presented in theRELX Group Annual Report 2015 on Form 20-F. Directors also bi-annually review the Groups principal risks as set out on pages 60 to 62 and assess the likelihood and impact of each risk together with the effectiveness of mitigating controls.
In reviewing these risks, the Directors stress test theGroups annual strategy plan by assessing each risks quantitative impact on the Groups revenue and profit and the effect of multiple risks occurring simultaneously, combined with the inability to access the capital markets to refinance scheduled liabilities as they become due.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups recent performance, current financial position, prospects and principal risks.
