Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 73 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit committee comprises the three The Audit committee Audit committee role non-executive directors, Carol Chesney hasavital role to play in andcomposition Chair, David Grant and John Jeans.
The Board is satisfied that at least one ensuringthe integrity of The Audit committee is appointed member of the committee has recent by the Board from the non-executive , and relevant financial experience, being directors of the Company.
The Audit the effectiveness of our risk Carol Chesney.
The terms of reference are committees terms of reference include available onthe Companys website.
all matters indicated by Disclosure and management processes Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
and internal controls, Meetings The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit committee and andin evaluating the The committee meets at least three times any changes are recommended to the a year with the Group Finance Director, performance of the Board for approval.
the Group Financial Controller, the Group external audit process.
Audit Manager, the Company Secretary The Audit committee reviews the and the external auditor in attendance.
Wefulfil our role by close Groups accounting policies and At least one meeting, or part thereof, is procedures, its annual and interim engagement with held with the external auditor without financial statements before submission executive directors present.
This year the management, internal audit to the Board and its compliance committee met three times: further details with statutory requirements.
The committee monitors the integrity During 2015 we also of the Groups financial statements monitored the various and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews changes to the Code.
the significant reporting judgements Thisreport explains how contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the we fulfilled our duties.
internal control systems and internal audit function.
Carol Chesney Non-executive director Chair of the Audit committee 74 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key issues and activities In addition to reviewing the financial reporting of the Company, the committee also spends a significant amount of time reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes.
Combined with the committees review of the internal and external audit functions, it is able to obtain sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
The principal activities in the year were: Financial statements and reports Risk management Internal audit External auditor and nonaudit work reviewed the effectiveness of the reviewed the output from evaluated the scope of considered the timing and Groups risk management and internal the Groups risk review work to be undertaken by process for the external controls and disclosures made in the process to identify, the internal audit function: audit tender: 2015 Annual report: evaluate and mitigate reviewed progress on reviewed, considered and risks and considered reviewed the 2015 Annual report, recommendations brought agreed the scope and whether changes the 2015 Interim report and all other forward and considered methodology of the audit in risk profile were trading updates issued during the year.
recommendations arising work to be undertaken by adequately addressed: The committee received a report from during the year: and the external auditor: the external auditor on the audit of the considered proposals considered the resource evaluated the 2015 Annual report: to further enhance the levels available to the independence and robustness of the risk reviewed areas of the accounts internal audit function.
objectivity of the management process: requiring judgement including the external auditor: carrying value of goodwill, the carrying received updates on agreed the terms of value of inventory, capitalisation of compliance with the engagement and the fees internally generated development Groups anti-bribery and to be paid to the external costs, amortisation of intangible corruption policy: and auditor for the audit of the assets, debtor provisions, warranty reviewed the Groups 2015 financial statements: provisions and taxation provisions: whistleblowing policy reviewed the level and reviewed the accounting and and process.
nature of non-audit services disclosures in the 2014 Annual provided by the external report in relation to the acquisition auditor: and of Advanced Consulting and Engineering, Inc: and undertook an effectiveness review of the external reviewed the accounting and audit process.
disclosures in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
An additional committee meeting is planned for October 2015, primarily to focus on the external audit tender, enhancements to the Groups risk management process and to consider other changes to the Code and their implementation in the 2016 financial year.
An extensive verification exercise Fair, balanced and Significant issues in relation was undertaken to ensure the factual understandable report to the financial statements accuracy of the Annual report by andaccounts As part of the reporting and review the Board and senior management.
process, the committee has regular One of the key governance requirements An advanced draft of the Annual report discussions with management and the is for the Annual report to be fair, was considered by the committee at external auditor relating to significant balanced and understandable.
its meeting on 8th July 2015 with a issues.
During the year the committee Ensuring that this standard is met final draft being reviewed on 24th July considered the significant issues set requires continuous assessment of 2015, prior to it being presented to the out below in relation to the financial the financial reporting issues affecting Board.
Following those discussions, the statements.
Also contained below is the Group on a year-round basis committee advised the Board that the a commentary on how these issues in addition to a number of focused Annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, were addressed: exercises that take place during the balanced and understandable.
accounts production process within a The directors statement on a fair, i The carrying value of goodwill strict timeframe.
balanced and understandable Annual The committee focused on the report is set out on page 87. impairment testing by the Company Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 75 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 of the carrying value of goodwill.
on the basis of lowest fees, but on Independence of By applying knowledge and making anumber of issues including: externalauditor enquiries of the relevant cash-generating skills and knowledge of the team In order to safeguard the independence units, reviewing the forecasts and the proposed to do the work: and objectivity of the external auditor, the sensitivity analysis, the committee committee reviews the nature and extent agreed with the conclusion reached that quality of the work: of the non-audit services supplied, no impairments were required.
independence of the audit firm from receiving reports on the balance of the Company: audit to non-audit fees.
The committee ii The carrying value of inventory regards it most cost efficient to use Provisions are made to write down audit partner rotation and the external auditor for tax advice and slow-moving and obsolete inventory succession planning: compliance since this requires an initems to net realisable value, based global coverage for the depth knowledge and understanding on an assessment of technological Companys subsidiaries: of the Companys business, products, and market developments and on customer base and markets.
The nonan analysis of historic and projected value for money: audit services policy provides that the demand.
The assessment used audit approach and methodology: auditor shall not be allowed to provide to calculate the provisions needed services where there is involvement in requires the application of judgement internal governance processes: management functions or management by management.
technical capabilities of the firm as decision making, and or any service on The committee received confirmation awhole: and which management may place primary from management that the approach reliance in determining the adequacy ethical behaviour and fair dealing.
used to determine the provision was of internal controls, financial systems consistent with the previous year and or financial reporting.
There are also The committee assesses the made enquiries of management to gain effectiveness of the external audit specified services which require the an understanding of how business prior approval of the Group Finance process and the quality of the audit work developments, both technological throughout the year by considering: Director and Audit committee chair and market-driven, had impacted the before the auditor may be appointed any issues arising from the prior provision during the year.
The external to provide such services.
In addition, year audit: auditor explained to the committee there are specified levels of authorisation the work they had performed on to be obtained before the auditor the proposed audit plan including inventory provisions during the year.
may be permitted to tender for nonthe identification of risks specific The committee was satisfied that the audit services.
to the Group, audit scope and management judgements applied were materiality thresholds: An analysis of fees paid to KPMG LLP, appropriate and that the provision was including the split between audit and feedback from executive appropriately stated at the year end.
non-audit services, is included in note 6 management, including the review to the accounts.
of a report presented by the Group Approach to auditor Finance Director, Group Financial appointment and audit quality Controller and the Group Audit Other matters The committee has primary Manager on the effectiveness of the The committee reviews the policy by responsibility for making the external audit process: which employees of the Company may, recommendation on the appointment, in confidence, raise matters of concern, the delivery of the audit in line with reappointment and removal of the including possible improprieties in the plan: external auditor, which the Board puts financial reporting or other matters.
toshareholders for approval at the AGM.
the communication of matters arising It also monitors the effectiveness of KPMG LLP and its predecessor firms during the audit to the committee: the Companys procedures to avoid have been auditor since 1974 and the any bribery related to the activities of private meetings with the auditor lead audit partner has changed in line the Group.
without management being present: with their internal rotation requirements.
and There has been no tender for audit services since 1974.
It is intended that the independence and objectivity of Carol Chesney atender will be undertaken in 2016. the auditor.
Chair of the Audit committee When tendering for audit services, 29th July 2015 tenders will not be assessed solely
