72 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Activities during the year The committee met once during the year.
Further details are on page 71.
A recruitment consultant, CT Partners Augmentum, was engaged in 2014 to seek appropriate candidates for appointment as an additional nonexecutive director, following a review of the composition of the Board and the experience represented.
The shortlist for interviews was to include candidates that have the required skills and experience and, where possible, at least one-third to be female candidates.
A range of experienced candidates were considered.
I am pleased to report that The Nomination committee Kath Durrant joined the Board in January Nomination committee role 2015, bringing with her extensive has an important role in and composition experience as a senior HR executive leading the process for The Nomination committee, which in the healthcare and engineering meets on an ad hoc basis as industries.
CT Partners Augmentum has Board appointments and required, is responsible for reviewing no other connection with the Company.
ensuring that the Board the size, structure and composition In addition to this appointment, of the Board, including its balance has the correct balance succession plans for the Board and of skills, knowledge and experience senior executives were also discussed.
ofexperience, diversity and for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
andskills to support our Boardroom diversity business model The members of the Nomination The Board has considered the committee are Sir David McMurtry recommendations of the Women on andstrategy.
Chair, Carol Chesney, Kath Durrant, Boards report issued by Lord Davies David Grant and John Jeans.
of Abersoch as regards setting out Sir David R McMurtry The majority of the members of aspirations for the appointment of Chairman and Chief Executive this committee are independent women to the Board by 2013 and 2015, Chair of the Nomination committee non-executive directors.
The terms and has decided that it is inappropriate of reference of this committee are to set out any levels that may require published on the Companys website.
positive discrimination in this respect, asthe overriding requirement is to appoint directors with the necessary skills and experience for the role.
However, as an international company, the Board acknowledges that diversity of all types is a benefit and should be borne in mind when recruiting to all roles within the Company, and has a policy to provide equal opportunities to all.
The Boards policy is to request, where recruitment consultants are appointed, that a proportion of female candidates are included in their shortlist.
Sir David R McMurtry Chair of the Nomination committee 29th July 2015
