Audit Committee report Dear shareholder Internal audit to monitor and review As Chairman of the Audit Committee the annual internal audit programme the Committee, I am pleased to present ensuring that the internal audit function to you this years Committee report which is adequately resourced and free from shows how the Committee applied the management restrictions, and to review principles of the UK Corporate and monitor responses to the findings and Governance Code during 2015. recommendations of the internal auditor.
External audit to advise the Board Key Objective on the appointment, reappointment, Acting on behalf of the Board, the remuneration and removal of the Committees key objective is to provide external auditor.
effective governance over the Companys financial reporting: this is achieved by Employee concerns to review the monitoring, reviewing and making Companys arrangements under which recommendations to the Board in employees may in confidence raise any respect of: The Committees key concerns regarding possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
the integrity of the Companys external objective is to provide The Audit Committee ensures that these financial reporting: effective governance over arrangements allow proportionate and the Companys system of internal control independent investigation and the Companys financial and compliance: and appropriate follow-up action.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Elmar Heggen Membership and meetings routinely reports to the Board on how Chairman the Committee has discharged its The Committee currently has five members, all of whom are Independent responsibilities, as well as highlighting any concerns that have been raised as Non-Executive Directors.
Five Committee meetings were held during 2015.
At the request of the Committee Activities of the Audit Committee Chairman, the external auditors, the during the year Executive Directors, the Company Secretary The following sections summarise the main acting as secretary to the Committee, areas of focus of the Committee and the the General Counsel and the Business results of the work undertaken in 2015: Assurance Director may attend each Financial reporting meeting.
The Audit Committee also Our main focus was the review of the routinely meets independently, without half-year results and this Annual Report the presence of management, with the together with the formal announcements Companys external auditors and with the Attendance relating thereto: before recommending Business Assurance Director to informally out of possible these to the Board we ensure that the maximum number discuss matters of interest.
actions and judgements made by Members of meetings Responsibilities management are appropriate.
Elmar Heggen, Summary terms of reference of the Chairman 5 5 Particular focus is given to: Committee, the full text of which is freely Lance Browne 5 5 critical accounting policies and practices available on the Companys website Nina Henderson 5 5 and changes thereto: www.
com, are: Franois Pauly 3 3 changes in the control environment: Florence Pierre 5 5 Financial reporting to provide support to control observations identified by Alex Sulkowski 2 2 the Board by monitoring the integrity of theauditor: financial reporting and ensuring that the Franois Pauly joined the Audit Committee on published financial statements of the decisions requiring judgements by 19 May 2015.
Group and any formal announcements management: Alex Sulkowski left the Audit Committee on 19 May 2015. relating to the Companys financial adjustments resulting from the audit: performance comply fully with the relevant clarity of the disclosures made and statutes and accounting standards.
Length of tenure of Non-Executive compliance with accounting standards Directors within the Committee Internal control and risk systems and relevant financial and governance to review the effectiveness of the reporting requirements: and 3 Groups internal controls and risk 1.
0-3 years: 3 the process surrounding compilation of 2.
the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure 3.
6-9 years: 1 they are fair, balanced and reasonable.
2 1 38 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee discussed and reviewed the Principal risks a system of regular reports from There are a number of risks and following significant issues with KPMG and management setting out key performance management in relation to the financial uncertainties which could have an impact and risk indicators has been developed.
on the Groups long-term performance.
statements for 2015: The above process is designed to provide The Group has a risk management structure Fair value accounting for business assurance by way of cumulative assessment in place designed to identify, manage and combinations: The Committee has and is embedded in operational mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment considered the business combinations management and governance processes.
and evaluation is an integral part of the purchased during the year and the fair Key elements of the Groups system of annual planning process, as well as the value and goodwill accounting valuations internal control which have operated Groups monthly review cycle.
Particular consideration throughout the year under review has been given to the assessment of what The Groups principal risks, together with are as follows: qualifies as a business combination an explanation of how the Group manages The risk assessments of all significant under IFRS and to managements these risks, are presented on pages 21 to 24 business decisions at the individual judgements relating to the non-current of this Annual Report.
transaction level, and as part of the annual assets acquired: The Committee is Internal control business planning process.
A Group-wide satisfied that management have The Committee has a delegated risk register is developed annually whereby adopted balanced accounting policies responsibility from the Board for the all Company-inherent risks are identified and made appropriate judgements.
Companys system of internal control and assessed, and appropriate action Valuation of intangibles and goodwill: and risk management and for reviewing the plans developed to manage the risk per The Committee has considered the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system the Companys risk appetite.
The Board impairment testing undertaken and is designed to identify, evaluate and control reviews the Groups principal risks register disclosures made in relation to the value the significant risks associated with the annually and management periodically of the Companys goodwill and intangibles Groups achievement of its business reports on the progress against agreed and has challenged the key assumptions objectives with a view to safeguarding actions to keep a close watch on how made by management in their valuation shareholders investments and the Groups we are managing our key risks.
Due to the limitations that are The annual strategic planning process, that an appropriately cautious approach inherent in any system of internal control, which is designed to ensure consistency has been used by management and is this system is designed to meet the with the Companys strategic objectives.
satisfied that no impairment of intangibles Companys particular needs and the risks The final budget is reviewed and approved and goodwill is required.
See notes 12 and to which it is exposed, and is designed by the Board.
Performance is reviewed 13 for furtherinformation.
to manage rather than eliminate risk.
against objectives at each Board meeting.
Accordingly, such a system can provide Following its in depth review of this Annual Comprehensive monthly business Report the Committee has advised the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance review processes under which business against material misstatement or loss.
Board that it considers the Annual Report, performance is reviewed at business taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and In accordance with the FRC Revised centre, area, country, regional and understandable, providing the information Guidance, the Committee confirms that functional levels.
Actual results are necessary for shareholders to assess the there is an ongoing process for identifying, reviewed against targets, explanations Companys position and performance, evaluating and managing the significant are received for all material movements, business model and strategy.
As such the risks faced by the Group.
and recovery plans are agreed where Committee recommended the Annual During the year under review, the Committee appropriate.
continued to revisit its risk identification and The documentation of key policies and Risk management assessment processes, inviting Board control procedures including finance, members and senior management to On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee operations, and health and safety oversees and reviews an ongoing process convene and discuss the Groups key having Group-wide application.
These risks and mitigating controls.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the are available to all staff via the Groups risks faced by the Group.
Major business A risk-based approach has been adopted in intranet system.
risks and their financial implications are establishing the Groups system of internal Formal procedures for the review and appraised by the responsible executives control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
approval of all investment and acquisition as a part of the planning process and are To identify and manage key risks: projects.
The Group Investment endorsed by regional management.
Key risks a number of Group-wide procedures, Committee reviews and approves all are reported to the Audit Committee, which policies and standards have been investments.
Additionally, the form and in turn ensured that the Board is made aware established: content of routine investment proposals of them.
The appropriateness of controls is are standardised to facilitate the a framework for reporting and escalating considered by the executives, having regard review process.
matters of significance has been to cost, benefit, materiality and the likelihood maintained: The delegation of authority limits with of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to regard to the approval of transactions.
mitigate those risks were considered by both reviews of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee and the Board in the management actions in addressing year under review, and were formally key Group risks identified by the Board reviewed and approved by the Board.
have been undertaken: and www.
com 39 Audit Committee report continued The generation of targeted, actionThe Committee and the Board regard External auditors KPMG Luxembourg, Socit cooprative oriented reports from the Groups responsible corporate behaviour as an sales and operating systems on a integral part of the overall governance was the Companys auditor for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Audit daily, weekly and monthly basis, which framework and believes, that it should provide management at all levels with be fully integrated into management Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditor, including an annual performance data for their area of structures and systems.
Therefore the responsibility, and which help them risk management policies, procedures and assessment of their independence and objectivity and the measures in place to to focus on key issues and manage monitoring methods described above apply them more effectively.
equally to the identification, evaluation and safeguard this.
control of the Companys safety, ethical and The delivery of a centrally co-ordinated During the year, the external auditor audited environmental risks and opportunities.
This assurance programme by the business the consolidated financial statements of the approach ensures that the Company has assurance department that includes key Company, performed control observations the necessary and adequate information to business risk areas.
The findings and throughout the Group and provided an identify and assess risks and opportunities recommendations of each review are overview of the half-year results of affecting the Companys long-term value reported to both management and the Company.
arising from its handling of corporate theCommittee.
KPMG Luxembourg, Socit cooprative responsibility and corporate did not perform any significant non-audit Annual internal control self-assessment governancematters.
and management certification exercise services.
The Committee has completed its annual covering the effectiveness of financial Measures in place to safeguard KPMGs review of the effectiveness of the system of and operational controls.
This is based independence were: internal control for the year to 31 December on a comprehensive internal control the Companys policy to use the external 2015 and is satisfied that it is in accordance questionnaire collated and reviewed auditor for non-audit-related services only with the FRC Revised Guidance and by business assurance.
Results and any where the use of the external auditor will the Code.
The assessment included necessary mitigating action plans are deliver a demonstrable benefit to the consideration of the effectiveness of the presented to senior management Company as compared to the use of other Boards ongoing process for identifying, and theBoard.
potential providers of the services and evaluating and managing the risks The maintenance of high standards of where it will not impair their independence facing theGroup.
behaviour which is demanded from staff or objectivity: Whistle-blowing policy at all levels in the Group.
The following all proposals for permitted defined procedures are in place to support this: The Company has an externally hosted non-audit services to use the external whistle-blowing channel EthicsPoint, a clearly defined organisation structure auditor must be submitted to, and which is available to all employees via email, with established responsibilities: authorised by, the Chief Financial Officer: and on the Companys intranet.
The aim an induction process to educate new permitted non-audit services include of the policy is to encourage all employees, advice on financial accounting and team members on the standards regardless of seniority, to bring matters that required from them in their role, regulatory reporting matters, reviews of cause them concern to the attention of the internal accounting and risk management including business ethics and Audit Committee.
compliance, regulation and controls, non-statutory audits e. g. The Business Assurance Director, where regarding acquisitions and disposal of internalpolicies: appropriate and in consultation with the assets and interests in companies and the availability of the Team Member senior management team, decides tax compliance and advisory services: Handbook, via the Groups intranet, on the appropriate method and level of which contains the Companys Code prohibited non-audit services include investigation.
The Audit Committee is book-keeping and other accounting of Business Conduct, detailed guidance notified of all material discourses made on employee policies and the standards services, actuarial valuation services, and receives reports on the results of recruitment services in relation to key of behaviour required of staff: investigations and actions taken on a management positions and transaction policies, procedure manuals and regular basis.
The Audit Committee has acquisitions, mergers and dispositions guidelines are readily accessible the power to request further information, work that includes investment banking through the Groups intranet site: conduct its own inquiries or order additional services, preparation of forecasts or action as it sees fit.
operational audit and self-certification investment proposals and deal tools which require individual managers executionservices: and to confirm their adherence to Group KPMG is required to adhere to a rotation policies and procedures: and policy requiring rotation of the lead audit a Group-wide policy to recruit partner at least every seven years.
A new and develop appropriately skilled lead audit partner took responsibility for management and staff of high the audit in respect of the financial year calibre and integrity and with ended 31 December 2015. .
40 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The breakdown of the fees paid to KPMG has been the Companys external the external auditor during the year to auditor since 2008.
In light of the new EU 31 December 2015 can be found in note legislation regarding auditor independence 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements and rotation, the Committee has on page 69. recommended to the Board that it is in the best interests of the Company for the In assessing the effectiveness of the Committee to launch a tendering process external audit process for 2015 the before June 2018 in respect of the financial Committee has considered: year ending 31 December 2018.
The the audit process as a whole and its Committee has debated the advantages suitability for the challenges facing and disadvantages related to tendering the Group: the Regus external audit prior to this and the strength and independence of the concluded that given the significant level external audit team: of other changes which remain ongoing, including the mix of countries in which much the audit teams understanding of the control environment: of the audit work is conducted, the rapid growth and evolving structure of the Group, the culture of the external auditor in changes in financial organisation and seeking continuous improvement and personnel, ongoing efforts to continue to increased quality: improve audit effectiveness with the existing the quality and timeliness of external auditor, and other factors, that it was communications and reports not appropriate or in the interest of received: and shareholders to bring this timeline forward.
the quality of interaction with Elmar Heggen management.
Chairman, Audit Committee Following the Committees assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process for 2015 and of KPMGs continuing independence, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG Luxembourg, Socit cooprative as the Companys auditor in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2016 be proposed at the annual general meeting.
