Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 47 Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement Good corporate governance As noted in the Chairmans statement, the principal governance framework applying to the Company is the UK Corporate Governance from the Board down Code, published in September 2014 the Code.
The Company has complied throughout 2015 with the requirements of the Code.
The Code through the business units is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the full text is ensures the right decisionavailable on its website at www.
uk making processes, controls We describe how we have applied the main principles of the Code in the table below, cross-referring to other parts of this Annual Report for and information to drive further information on internal control and risk management and Directors remuneration.
This table is intended to assist with the evaluation of our strategy and deliver longcompliance during the year and should be read in conjunction with the Governance section as a whole on pages 43 to 46.
Headings in the table term shareholder value.
correspond to the Principles headings contained in the Code.
A B C D E Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with Information can be found on page 49 Information can be found onpages Information can also be shareholders of thisCorporate Governance Report.
59 to 60 of the Audit Committee Report found on pages 64 to 83 Information can also be and this Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration found on pages 54 to 55 on pages 54 to 55.
of this Corporate Governance Report.
The composition of the Board C1.
Dialogue with business reporting components of shareholders The Boards responsibilities are set Our Board consists of eight Directors, all of out in the governance framework whom served throughout the year.
There are remuneration The Directors Statement of The Chairman has overall outlined on page 49.
The Board fiveNon-executive Directors inaddition to the Responsibility regarding the financial responsibility The Remuneration held 11 scheduled meetings plus Chairman and two Executive Directors.
statements, including i the going for ensuring that Committee assesses and one to discuss the Steritech Changes made tothe composition of the Board concern assessment and identifying any there is effective makes recommendations acquisition during the year and and Committees during the year are set out material uncertainties to the Companys communication with tothe Board on the holds additional Board Committee inthe Nomination Committee Report and ability to continue to operate for a period investors.
Further remuneration policies and meetings, as required.
All Directors Corporate Governance Report.
The balance of at least 12 months from the date of information on how we packages for individual are expected, wherever possible, and independence of our Board is kept under approval of the financial statements, and engage with our Directors.
More to attend all Board and relevant review by our Nomination Committee.
Peter ii the Viability Statement, is set out on shareholders can be information can be found Committee meetings, and the Bamford will be stepping down from the Board page 37 of the Strategic Report.
found on page 54 of this on pages 66 to 72 in the AGM.
Details of Board meetings at the AGM on 11 May 2016, having served Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration A statement is provided onpage 55 attendance for the year are set out nine years as a Non-executive Director.
The Report and on page 64 Report.
of this Corporate Governance Report on page 53 of this Corporate Board considers that all of the Non-executive of the Directors confirming that the Board considers that Governance Report.
Directors bring strong independent oversight Remuneration Report.
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken and continue to demonstrate independence.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
It provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The responsibility of our auditor is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 59 to 60.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 48 Corporate Governance Report A.
2 Appointments to the Board C. 2 Risk management and D. 2 Procedure E. 2 Constructive responsibilities internal control use of the AGM There were no appointments during the year to The Board has 31December 2015.
Further details on the process delegated a number of The roles of the Chairman and Chief An overview of the groups framework Our AGM will be held leading to the appointments of the current Directors responsibilities to the Executive are separate and the key for determining the nature and extent of on 11 May 2016. is set out in the Nomination Report on page 62 and Remuneration responsibilities of each are set out the principal risks and identifying and Further information can Corporate Governance Report on page 49.
Committee, including on page 50 of this Corporate managing risk is set out on page 54 of this be found on page 55 determining the policy Governance Report.
Further of this Corporate on remuneration of the information on i the Boards Governance Report Chairman, executives responsibility for the system of internal and a copy of our and senior control and risk management can be Notice of Meeting can management team.
Full found in the Directors Statement of be found at www.
details are set out in Responsibility on page 142, and rentokil-initial.
com the terms of reference ii information on the oversight of the investors for the Remuneration groups system of internal control and Committee published the monitoring of the groups risk at www.
management system and its com investors effectiveness can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 56 to 61.
Further details are set out in the terms of reference for the Audit Committee published at www.
3 Commitment C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditor The role of the Chairman is set out on During the year, the Board considered the external page 50.
Board meetings are arranged commitments of all of its Directors and is satisfied The Board has delegated a number of to ensure sufficient time is available for that these do not conflict with their duties and time responsibilities to the Audit Committee the discussion of all items.
In commitments as Directors of the Company.
Details including governance over the accordance with the Code, the of their commitments are set out in their respective appropriateness of the performance of Chairman was not considered biographies on pages 44 and 45 of this Corporate both the internal audit function and the independent on appointment as a Governance Report.
Changes to the commitments external auditor and oversight of the result of his participation in a one-off of all Directors are reported to the Board.
Directors groups systems of internal controls.
share incentive arrangement approved regularly review a conflicts register and any Further details of the composition of the by shareholders in 2008 in connection conflicts identified are submitted to the Board for Audit Committee and its activities are set with his recruitment to the business.
consideration and, as appropriate, authorisation in out in the Audit Committee Report on The share incentive arrangement accordance with our articles of association and the pages 56 to 58. lapsed in 2014.
4 Development Directors Details of Board induction and training and development is set out on pages 51 and 63 of this Details can be found on the role Corporate Governance Report.
responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director on page 50 of this Corporate Governance Report and the role of the Non-executive Directors on page 49 of this Corporate Governance Report.
5 Information and support Details of support for the Directors taking independent legal and or financial advice at the Companys expense and the role of the Company Secretary who assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information can be found on page 52 of this Corporate Governance Report.
6 Evaluation Information on the Boards own evaluation of its performance and that of the Committees and individual Directors is set out on page 51 of this Corporate Governance Report.
7 Election re-election All Directors have submitted themselves for re-election at the 11 May 2016 AGM with the exception of Peter Bamford who will step down from the Board after the AGM.
Further information can be found on page 55 of this Corporate Governance Report and the Notice of Meeting.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 49 Corporate Governance Report including those that would impact its business model and future Role and effectiveness of the Board performance.
More detail of the key risks identified and considered is set The role of the Board out on page 35.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company by creating value for shareholders and always acting in their An overview of the matters considered by the Board in 2015 is shown on interests.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human page 54. resources are in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives as Key Board roles well as ensuring that it takes into account safety, environmental and social The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive factors when reviewing operations and taking decisions.
is set out in writing and is summarised on page 50, together with the Specifically the Board must: primary responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary.
Non-executive Directors have regular opportunities to meet with provide entrepreneurial leadership: members of Executive management and also hold discussions under the understand and monitor risk: leadership of the Chairman without Executive members present.
At least once a year Non-executive Directors meet under the leadership of the develop the business model, consider and approve strategy, approve Senior Independent Director without the Chairman being present.
annual operating plans and major transactions: Appointments to the Board and composition ensure the adequacy of management resources and make executive A Nomination Committee comprising independent Non-executive appointments including that of the Chief Executive: Directors and chaired by the Company Chairman has responsibility for challenge and support executive management, oversee the governance managing the appointment process to ensure a formal, rigorous and process and the control framework: and transparent procedure for appointing Directors.
Its work is described on page 62. report to shareholders and be accountable to them.
In order for the Board to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, A schedule of the matters reserved for the Boards attention is reviewed it must comprise a diverse group of individuals whose skills and annually and was most recently reviewed in December 2015.
The experience are gained in a variety of backgrounds.
Successful candidates schedule sets out the Boards ultimate responsibility for the groups must demonstrate independence of mind and integrity, and must enhance strategy, operations and risks, and reserves to the Board power to the overall effectiveness of the Board.
Appointments are considered approve a range of decisions of a significant nature.
The schedule is objectively, regardless of gender, ethnicity or other personal available at www.
com characteristics, and are made on merit.
Pro-forma letters of appointment In addition to its other responsibilities, the Board is mindful of its and Directors service contracts are available for public inspection at responsibility for the groups risk management approach.
com carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, Board industry sector experience % Professional background % Gender diversity % 17% Professional Business Services 37% Finance Accountancy 75% Male 17% Retail 25% Marketing 25% Female 15% Financial Services 25% Science 12% Hospitality Food Processing 13% Law 9% Engineering 6% Airline 6% Chemical Manufacturing 6% Clothing Manufacturing 6% Entertainment 6% Telecommunications IT Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 50 Corporate Governance Report At the date of this report the Board has eight members: the Chairman, five The Board considers that an individuals independence cannot be Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The names of the determined arbitrarily on the basis of a particular period of service.
In the Directors serving throughout 2015 and their biographical details are set case of Alan Giles, who has served as a Director for ten years eight years out on pages 44 and 45. following the change in Executive management in 2008, and less than two years as Senior Independent Director, the Board benefits from his Balance and independence of Board members considerable experience and knowledge resulting from the length of his The Board considers that it and its Committees have an appropriate service as well as from his wider business experience.
composition to discharge their duties effectively and to manage All Non-executive Directors other than the Chairman have been determined succession issues.
The Board keeps its membership and that of its by the Board to be independent, having retained their independence of Committees under review to ensure that an appropriate balance is character and judgement.
In making this determination the Board has taken maintained.
into account indicators of potential non-independence as set out in the Code.
All Directors may serve on a number of other Boards, provided that they No Director took part in the Boards consideration of their own independence.
can demonstrate that any such appointment will not interfere with their time commitment to the Company and that they obtain the agreement of the Chairman before proceeding.
This also ensures that any potential Directors independence % conflicts of interest are considered and addressed.
The major commitments of the Directors are shown in their biographical information on pages 44 and 45.
Currently Non-executive Directors are obliged to commit at least 20 days a year and the Chairman is obliged to commit at least two days a week to the Company.
The independence of Directors is reviewed as part of the individual Director performance evaluation process, to ensure that all Non-executive Board members retain the necessary independence of judgement.
This continues to be reflected in constructive challenge to the Executive team and senior management at Board and Committee meetings, and during 63% Independent informal interaction outside those meetings.
37% Non-independent Board responsibilities Principal governance responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Company Secretary John McAdam Andy Ransom Director Daragh Fagan Alan Giles Duties include: Duties include: Duties include: Duties include: Secretary to the Board and each of Leading and managing the Board Recommending strategy and its Committees, reporting directly to Providing timely information to strategic priorities Leading the Non-executive their Chairmen Directors Managing agreed strategies and Directors appraisal of the Chairman Secretary to the Executive Setting the agenda and managing strategic priorities Working with the Chairman on Leadership Team, reporting directly the Boards time Operational and financial Board effectiveness to the Chief Executive Communication with shareholders performance, including monthly Providing an alternative channel of Assisting the Chairman and Senior Director induction, training and performance reviews with all regions communication for investors, Independent Director in their development and identifying and managing risks primarily on corporate governance evaluation of the Boards Board succession and Chair of the to delivery of strategy matters effectiveness Nomination Committee With the Chief Financial Officer, Being a sounding board for the Keeping the Board and its Performance evaluation of the Board explaining performance to Chairman Committees informed on and Chief Executive shareholders governance matters and advising on Executive management capability these through their Chairmen and development Management of the legal and health Overall development of group and safety functions, and assisting policies the overall development of group Responsibility for all corporate governance and compliance responsibility matters which are arrangements reviewed at least annually by the Board and by the Executive Leadership Team the groups corporate responsibility performance is in the groups web-based 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report which is available online at www.
com Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 51 Corporate Governance Report Succession planning and exposure to senior management: Directors length of service Over90% of the Senior Leadership Forum presented to or spent time with the Board during 2015, with agendas arranged to facilitate greater formal and informal contact with the pool of potential Executive Directors length of service % succession candidates.
as at 24 February 2016 The external evaluation in 2015 covered: the Boards balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge, and diversity including gender of Board members.
It also covered how the Board works together and the effectiveness with which it used its time.
As in 2014 this years review included an assessment of the strategy away day.
The review also covered strategic and operational risk oversight, key talent and succession, and the quality of information flow and Board support.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured in order to promote an open 38% 7-9 years and frank exchange of views.
25% 9 years 13% 5-7 years The Board considered the output from the 2015 review at its meeting on 12% 0-3 years 17 February 2015.
The review reported further progress in the 12% 3-5 years effectiveness of the Board and against the actions identified in the 2014 review.
Following some suggestions for further improvements, the Board agreed a number of actions, summarised below: Operational business reviews: Continuing with deep dive reviews of Board performance, training and succession all five regional businesses, the core categories and key functions: The Board ensures that the Directors continue to provide suitable implementing reviews of the control environment with regional Finance leadership for the Company through a regular performance evaluation Directors at the Audit Committee or with its chairman: the Board plans process, training processes, Board succession planning and annual to visit North America in June 2016 re-election by shareholders.
Risk oversight: Continuing the progress in this area, and considering Performance evaluation key or new risks in depth, such as emerging markets or cyber security: This involved an external independent facilitator, Lintstock, engaging with monitoring key operational risks such as the integration of Steritech and the Chairman and Company Secretary to set the context for the other North American acquisitions in 2015, and performance of the evaluation.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy and Workwear business especially in France and Benelux has no commercial dealings with the group, other than for the provision of corporate governance services to the Board.
Succession planning: Maintain focus on refreshing the Boards range of skills as new appointments are made, and succession planning for The performance evaluation was positive with all responses indicating Executive and Non-executive Directors: extending the membership of continued high or increased performance.
Actions taken following the the Nomination Committee to include all Non-executive Directors 2014 evaluation were as follows: Talent management: Spending additional time on Executive Operational business reviews: It was recommended that the succession and talent development Directors allocate additional time to consider operational matters.
In response, a programme of regional and functional deep dives was We will report on progress in implementing the actions in the 2016 instituted from the beginning of 2015, which covered all five regions and Corporate Governance Report.
Succession planning Committee time: The format of Board and Committee meetings was The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for Executive changed so that Committees take place on the afternoon before the and Non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee has conducted main Board.
This allows greater time for Committee discussions, as well a performance evaluation of each Non-executive Director seeking as more informal discussion time at additional Board dinners.
re-election and concluded that their performance individually and in aggregate continues to be effective and that each demonstrates Risk oversight: The regional deep dives, referred to above, included commitment to the role.
Further information on the succession planning reports from the regional Finance Directors to the Audit Committee on process is included in the Nomination Committee Report on page 63. the control environment in their regions, and functional reviews included the treasury function and controls.
The risk framework was restructured Training more clearly to separate strategic from operational risks, facilitating Where appropriate, Directors participate in peer group discussion forums Board oversight and clarity of understanding, as well as appropriate and seminars related to the commercial environment and targeted at mitigation activity.
Strategic risk issues were identified in the 2014 specific needs, for example relating to executive remuneration, financial evaluation and annual report, and more detail is set out overleaf.
Training also covers the group, its business Digital marketing: The Board continued to receive periodic updates on sectors and governance matters more generally, including individual progress at Board meetings and digital marketing performance was experiences with frontline staff.
Further information on the induction reviewed in depth at the strategy away day in November.
process for new Directors is included in the Nomination Committee Report.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 52 Corporate Governance Report Reports by the principal Board Committees Audit, Remuneration and Annual re-election Nomination, including a full discussion of their terms of reference, role, In accordance with the Code, the Directors are subject to annual re-election structure and composition are set out between pages 56 and 83.
To enable shareholders to make an informed decision, more details see: Audit Committee page 56, Nomination Committee the 2016 AGM notice includes biographical information and a statement page 62, Remuneration Committee page 66. as to why the Company believes the Directors should be re-elected.
The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all receives appropriate information to allow full preparation for meetings and to Directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all effective carry out its responsibilities effectively.
All Directors are able to make further Directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of enquiries of the Executive Directors, Company Secretary or management commitment to the role.
Peter Bamford, who joined the Board in July whenever necessary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising 2006, will be stepping down from the Board at the 2016 AGM and so will the Board through the Chairman on corporate governance matters, and not be put forward for re-election.
The terms of the Directors service there is also a procedure in place for Directors to take independent legal contracts are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report starting on advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors interests in shares are disclosed on page 79.
Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Managing conflicts of interest Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available at the AGM which will take place on The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation where they have, 11 May 2016.
Apro-forma of the Non-executive Directors letters of or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or might possibly appointment is available at www.
com conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Board is permitted under powers from shareholders contained in the articles of association to Board Committees and Board support authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
In addition to a clear statement of the matters reserved to the Board, each The Company has a procedure in place to deal with the situation where a Board Committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, Director has a conflict of interest and as part of the process the Board summarising its objectives, remit and powers.
These are available at considers each potential conflict situation on its merits.
Membership of the maintains a register of authorisations granted and the scope of any principal Board Committees is shown in the Directors attendance and approvals given.
These potential conflicts are not material either to the membership table opposite.
Company or, the Directors believe, to the other companies that are the Agendas, papers and minutes of Committee meetings are provided to all subject of the potential conflict.
The register of authorised conflicts is Board members, save for the private sessions of Committee members.
reviewed by the Board regularly.
All of the approvals given have been Chairmen of Committees update the Board following each Committee situational and no transactional conflicts have occurred.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by John McAdam, the Details of Directors interests are shown on pages 44 to 45.
The chairmen of Committees attend the AGM to has had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the answer any questions on the Committees activities.
Companys business at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
Governance overview Board Chief Executive Nomination Senior Leadership Investment Committee Executive Leadership Forum Committee IT Investment Team Committee Remuneration Committee Pest Hygiene category board Audit Group Risk Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Workwear category board Functional and Regional Governance Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 53 Corporate Governance Report Corporate responsibility occasion France.
The Board had the opportunity to meet the extended The Chief Executive is responsible for corporate responsibility and the management team of the business and conduct a detailed review of the Executive Leadership Team has authority for reviewing all aspects of business in France and Europe generally, focusing in particular on the corporate responsibility.
The Board reviews specific corporate Workwear business.
The agenda included a visit and tour of one of the responsibility matters on a regular basis and on a broader basis at least groups laundries in Marseille, and a review of the latest workwear designs once a year.
A Safety, Health and Environment SHE report, including a for different market segments.
review of SHE KPIs, is the first item on the agenda at each meeting of the Board, Executive Leadership Team and Senior Leadership Forum.
Further A summary of the activities carried out by the Board during the year is information can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages shown on page 54 and Directors membership and attendance at Board 38 to 40 and at www.
com responsible-delivery and Committee meetings is shown below.
Directors liabilities and protections Non-attendance at meetings by Directors was either as a result of unavoidable changes in commitments, illness, or from ad hoc meetings Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the Companys called by the Company which conflicted with existing arrangements.
They face significant personal liability under criminal or TheChairman or Committee chairman seeks the views of any Director civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency unable to attend a meeting and provides a briefing on outcomes.
Rules, and face a range of penalties including censure, fines and imprisonment.
The Company considers that it is in its best interests to protect individuals who serve as Directors from the consequences of Executive responsibilities innocent error or omission, since this enables the Company to continue to Executive governance attract prudent, appropriately qualified individuals to act as Directors.
The Boards governance procedures delegate the day-to-day management of the groups businesses to the Chief Executive who in turn The Company maintains at its expense a Directors and officers liability cascades authority to the wider management population through a insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the documented schedule of authorities, setting out responsibilities, benefit of group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, the decision-making and approval powers of managers at different levels in Directors.
The policy does not provide cover where the Director or officer the organisation.
has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Executive Leadership Team To support the Chief Executive in managing the business at group level In addition the Company has granted indemnities in favour of Directors, as the Executive Leadership Team has been established under the Chief permitted by s. 232 to s. 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
In general terms, Executives chairmanship and comprises the groups operational heads for the indemnities protect Directors to the extent permissible by law from all Europe, North America and UK & Rest of World and the heads of the costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal Finance & IT, Human Resources and Marketing & Innovation functions, as proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings well as the Company Secretary.
They meet regularly to review safety, or otherwise disposed of without finding fault or where there is a performance, operational plans and actions, governance and risk successful application to court for relief from liability.
Biographical information on the Executive Leadership Team operates to the extent that the Director is not able to recover the relevant is provided on page 46. amounts under the Companys Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Senior Leadership Forum The Chief Executive has also established the Senior Leadership Forum Board meetings comprising the 25 most senior operational and functional colleagues The Board met 11 times during the year, all scheduled meetings, and a globally who meet on a monthly basis by conference call and three times Committee of the Board met five times in relation to the release of ayear in person, to share progress and discuss a range of issues that are quarterly results and the acquisition of Steritech.
As in previous years critical to the operational performance of the group as a whole.
theBoard has this year visited one of its overseas operations, on this Directors attendance and Committee membership Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee John McAdam 11 11 Chairman 2 2 Chairman Andy Ransom 11 11 Jeremy Townsend 11 11 Peter Bamford 11 11 5 5 2 2 Richard Burrows 9 11 3 5 2 2 Alan Giles 11 11 5 5 5 5 Chairman 2 2 Angela Seymour-Jackson 11 11 5 5 Julie Southern 10 11 5 5 Chairman Total number of meetings 11 5 5 2 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 54 Corporate Governance Report Primary group committees Boards Key items discussed by the Board Disclosure Committee The Companys Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Board time allocation % Officer, supports the Boards responsibility for the accuracy and timeliness of the disclosures made by the Company, whether in connection with its financial reporting obligations or other matters.
Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, includes senior functional executives with day-to-day responsibility for the internal control environment covering financial, HR and IT systems, legal and regulatory compliance as well as the Director of Risk and Internal Audit 39% Strategy and a representative of operational management.
The Group Risk 25% Operations Committee supports the Audit Committee and Executive management by: 15% Financial 11% M&A providing oversight of the framework for managing risk throughout the 7% Governance group: 3% SHE providing oversight of the processes for reviewing the effectiveness of the group risk management framework and internal control systems: assisting the Committee and the Board assess the risks the group is prepared to take and monitoring emerging risks: and In 2015, the Board considered: Safety, Health & Environment SHE performance and governance determining internal responsibility for appropriate mitigating strategies.
Operational and financial performance, including review of the annual Copies of the minutes of the Group Risk Committee are provided to the operating plan and deep dive review of all five regional businesses and Audit Committee.
Information on the risk management and control key functions framework is provided in the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 35 to 37 and in the Audit Committee Report on pages 56 to 61.
Visits to the Global Science Centre to review the innovation pipeline, to Investment Committee France to review the French and European business and Workwear The Companys Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive business, and to the UK Sales Academy to review the training and and including the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the career development arrangements for frontline staff Company Secretary, reviews and approves investments below the Preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts, and quarterly and half threshold requiring approval by the Board, including M&A transactions, year financial results, and associated investor relations activity property sales and investments and environmental remediation expenditures.
M&A activity including the acquisitions of Eradico, Anderson Pest, Steritech and Oliver Exterminating Category Boards There are category Boards for Pest Control, Hygiene and Workwear.
Reviews of key risks to the business, including material disputes These are forums where the senior operational and functional leaders of Governance arrangements and processes including conflicts of interest, the relevant category meet to coordinate the development agenda for Board evaluation, and Board governance growth and productivity initiatives and to oversee the sharing of best practice.
They meet at least quarterly with the Pest and Hygiene category Strategy for the group and its businesses Board being chaired by the Chief Executive, while the Workwear Board is Succession planning chaired by the Managing Director, Europe.
Corporate responsibility Business units The governance process in business units comprises acting in Accountability to shareholders accordance with the the application of group and local policies and The Board fulfils its obligations of accountability to shareholders by clear procedures, management oversight and the analysis and management and open reporting on current performance and plans for the future, ofrisk, all underpinned by the groups values and behaviours.
The group engagement with shareholders and investor representative bodies and operates through locally constituted and governed legal entities in 67 taking into account the views expressed by shareholders.
All staff are required to act in accordance with principles set outin the groups Code of Conduct which is available to shareholders The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and atwww.
com an ADR listing on the New York Stock Exchange to facilitate shareholding by retail investors in the United States.
All ordinary shares carry the same rights and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, regardless of the size of their holding.
Further information on the rights attaching to shares can be found in the Directors Report on page 140.
The Company has been notified pursuant to DTR 5 of the following substantial interests in the Companys share capital.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 55 Corporate Governance Report The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Of ficer make Substantial interests in shares at 24 February 2016 themselves available to shareholders at all appropriate times No.
of Regular dialogue with institutional shar eholders through one-to-one and Ordinary Nature of group meetings, formal investor and analyst conference calls as well as % shares holding ad-hoc communications, where appropriate, and through exchanges Ameriprise Financial Inc. 10.02 182,600,557 Indirect with shareholder representative organisations Schroders plc 9.94 181,246,797 Indirect Formal presentations are held after full-year and half-year results, to which BlackRock, Inc. 6.31 115,064,870 Indirect investors and sell and buy-side analysts are invited.
These presentations Majedie Asset Management Ltd 5.61 101,963,126 Indirect are webcast and any investor is able to hear the presentation and Artemis Investment Management LLP 5.37 97,646,833 Direct related questions and answers via the Companys website.
Slide presentations of results are hosted as are recordings of meetings Invesco Ltd 5.04 91,879,258 Indirect AXA SA 4.8087,093,421 Indirect Investor roadshows are conducted after full-year and interim results, involving extensive investor meetings on each occasion, as well as Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 4.01 73,177,456 Direct opportunities for private client investor presentations across the UK.
In May 2015 a highly successful Pest Control Investor Seminar was held to Ameriprise Financial Inc. includes Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Ltd provide investors with additional information on the Pest Control business and our leading position within it globally Formal reporting The Company publishes a half yearly unaudited interim statement at the The Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Financial Controller end of July early August as well as audited financial statements which are and Treasurer, regularly meets with and hears the views of announced in February and circulated to shareholders in early April.
In representatives of the debt capital markets accordance with the changes implemented by the Financial Conduct The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Committee Authority with effect from 7 November 2014, we now only provide Chairmen are available to attend meetings with investors, as required, simplified quarterly trading updates in May and November.
We will and will typically do so on a number of occasions annually continue to keep under review our quarterly reporting practice, and seek shareholders views on the benefits of doing so.
Dialogue with both private and institutional shareholders at the AGM: the Board and executive welcome this opportunity to engage with all our The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015 shareholders on the performance of the business they own meets the Code requirement to provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects in The Board is briefed on the Companys investor relations programme its external reporting.
through a regular report from the Head of Investor Relations as well as by periodic updates from the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer Over 88% of shareholders obtained their primary information on the Company through electronic communications and the Companys Additional information for investors can be found on pages 143 to 144. website.
The Company strongly encourages shareholders to use electronic means for accessing shareholder communications, saving Annual General Meeting AGM resources and cost that would be involved in distributing printed material The AGM will be held at 12 noon on 11 May 2016 in the Ascot Suite at each printed copy of the Annual Report costs approximately 22 to The London Gatwick Hilton Hotel, South Terminal, Crawley, West Sussex produce.
Shareholders who elect to receive electronic communications RH6 0LL.
A separate notice of meeting, containing explanation of the can revert to paper communications at a future time, if they so wish.
The items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is available Company continues to canvass shareholders on how they wish to receive at www.
The Company encourages all shareholders to their shareholder communications and did so in February 2015 and attend the AGM and to participate in discussion of the matters at the January 2016. meeting.
The Chief Executive will present to shareholders on the Companys The Companys website www.
com contains information on strategy and performance and all Directors will be available to answer the Companys operations and the Investor section contains information questions both formally at the meeting and informally over lunch.
Voting at on past results and publications, press releases and analyst presentation the AGM will be conducted by a poll and the results announced to the material.
It also contains information to help shareholders manage their market and displayed on the Companys website the day following the AGM.
holdings such as change of address or change of name notifications, transfer of shares, lost share certificates, online and telephone share dealing facilities and how to receive shareholder communications electronically.
Shareholder communications The Board places great importance on communications with shareholders, John McAdam and also recognises the contribution made by other providers of capital, Chairman and is open to hearing the views of such providers in so far as they are 24 February 2016 relevant to the Companys overall approach to governance.
The following summarises the activities carried out by the Company to ensure that investors and other interested parties have a transparent and effective dialogue with the Company.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
