STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 37 GOVERNANCE subject to both regulatory and shareholder approval, the Group is In my statement on pages 2 and 3, I said solidly positioned for the proposed takeover of Rexam by Ball.
The board evaluation process and outcomes are more fully described that the board sets the tone for Rexam through on pages 43 and 44. its conduct and that good governance is Every year the board has a programme of key items to consider and essential to ensure that we remain both also focuses on the strategic issues for the Company, examples of which are shown on page 42.
The board delegates certain responsibilities successful and sustainable.
During 2015, to its committees to assist it in carrying out its functions.
During 2015 our remuneration committee considered the remuneration related the board continued to uphold and practice arrangements relevant to the Ball transaction whilst retaining a clear focus on new provisions of the updated UK Corporate Governance effective governance and risk management.
Code and best practice remuneration guidelines.
We need to be trustworthy and expectations Our audit and risk committee considered the Groups significant of companies such as ours are, with every financial and business matters during the year.
This included a robust assessment of risk related matters, the new requirements to prepare a good reason, very high.
The recommendation viability statement, compliance with relevant Competition and Markets Authority rules and the increased financial reporting requirements to by the board to approve the offer from Ball assist Ball in their US filing obligations as part of the Ball offer.
Corporation Ball does not affect or alter Our nomination committee led the process to consider talent and succession planning for senior management and the nomination the boards duties in any respect whilst committee had the opportunity to meet more informally with Rexam remains a standalone company.
individuals in the talent pool.
The board believes that good corporate governance is strong values and A key strength of our board lies in its diversity across a range of measures a desire to do what is right for employees, shareholders and all other including skills, experience, gender and nationality.
The action plan to stakeholders.
The board influences the way in which the Company enhance diversity within the senior management functions continues conducts itself, its definition of success and its attitude to risk and to be developed, details of which can be found on page 19. ethical matters.
Integrity and trust are more important than ever in todays business world, During the year, the board spent time reviewing the Companys longer and the board and I will continue to provide leadership to the business term strategy and direction to be the best beverage can maker in the as a whole and build upon the high standards of good governance world, which the board is committed to achieve through its business that have been implemented to date.
Our responsibilities as a board model see pages 10 and 11.
On the approach by Ball, our focus will continue until such time as the proposed Ball offer completes, at remained committed to business as usual and the implementation of our which point myself and my fellow directors will resign from office.
To manage the approach and subsequent negotiations and Stuart Chambers discussions relating to the Ball offer, we established a defence committee Chairman reporting to the board which continued to meet throughout the year.
I am pleased at how our solid governance principles and clear processes continue to guide us as we maintain business as usual whilst dealing with regulatory clearances, divestment and integration workstreams aimed at achieving the anticipated completion of the transaction and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT ultimate change in ownership.
This corporate governance report and other disclosures set out on pages 73 to 75 make up the directors report.
During 2015, the board visited the beverage can plant in Milton Keynes and toured the graphics and design centre in Luton.
Such visits, arranged UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE annually, enable the non executive directors to deepen their knowledge This corporate governance report has been prepared in accordance and understanding of the day to day functioning of the beverage with the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial can business.
Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 the Code.
We continued to engage with our shareholders to explain our business The Code can be viewed on the www.
This report, model and strategy, and the steps we are taking to deliver value to together with the remuneration report, describes how we have applied the our shareholders and other stakeholders.
main principles of the Code and complied with its detailed provisions.
I am pleased to be able to report that we made good progress against It is the boards view that throughout the year, 1 January 2015 to the actions agreed following the 2014 board evaluation.
Our 2015 31 December 2015, the Company has applied the main principles board evaluation was facilitated by myself, the senior independent and complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Company has not, director and the company secretary.
As a board, we have identified however, tendered for audit services in the past 10 years as explained areas of development to ensure that we continue to contribute in an on page 49. open and transparent way and ensure that, whilst the Ball Offer is
