STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 47 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE AREAS OF FOCUS 2015 Berlin factory closure The closure of the Berlin plant was announced in February 2015 Reviewed and recommended for approval the financial results of the and the committee received updates on progress from management Group at the meetings immediately prior to the full and half year results during the year confirming works council approval and assessing the announcements, following discussion with management and the risk of industrial action.
The committee discussed the key judgments external auditors.
relating to the accounting treatment of the closure which included Reviewed and approved where appropriate additional financial redundancy provisions, accelerated depreciation, transfer of assets reporting requirements in relation to the Ball offer.
to other Group plants, and asset impairment with management and The Ball offer has required focus during 2015 for the committee and the external auditors.
Internal audit carried out a review of the plant additional meetings have taken place during the year to review with controls and the closure process in the period prior to closure on management and the external auditors the progress on the transaction 31 December 2015 and reported its conclusions to the committee.
The committee considered the reports it had received, its discussions Reviewed the effectiveness of both external and internal audit, the two with management and internal audit, and guidance from the external key assurance providers on which the committee places reliance, to auditors, and concluded that it was satisfied that the closure and the ensure that independent reporting on the controls and financial results appropriate accounting treatment had been fully considered and is maintained.
A review of the external auditors effectiveness was was appropriate.
carried out following completion of the 2014 year end audit.
A separate Tax review of internal audits effectiveness was carried out at the end of The committee considered key tax issues facing the Group, in 2015 and reported to the committee at its February 2016 meeting.
particular those where judgement was required to determine their The committee has a high focus on risk and reviewed the enterprise risk treatment in the financial statements, such as the recognition and management process and its results at two meetings during the year, recoverability of deferred tax assets and the appropriate levels of which are dedicated to risk management.
At each of these meetings provisions where there are uncertainties or interpretation of local a business sector or key Group function will present its risks and provide laws and regulations.
The external auditors provided an external details of the mitigation measures in place to address those risks.
perspective confirming the judgements adopted by management, During 2015 the Beverage Can Europe and the Beverage Can Africa, and the committee was comfortable with the judgements taken.
Middle East and Asia sectors presented their risks to the committee.
Brazil currency hedging Reviewed updates from the director internal audit on the controls Management discussed with the committee their decision to apply within the businesses, including IT risks and controls.
cash flow hedging in Brazil to mitigate the costs associated with financial hedging of the Brazilian Real.
The accounting treatment for Presentation by chief information officer on information technology the Brazilian currency hedging was discussed in depth between the risks with emphasis on cyber risks.
committee, management and the external auditors, and the committee External audit plan for 2015 year end approved: early warnings reports concluded that the accounting treatment was appropriate based on presented by external auditors.
Reviewed and considered the quarterly updates presented by Global and significant contracts the director internal audit of the results of audits carried out by the The major contracts being negotiated during the year were discussed internal audit team and information relating to audit opinions given, with management as to their progress and the key terms within the recommendations made and remediated by the businesses, key contracts.
The committee sought the advice of management and performance indicators for the internal audit team and any whistle the external auditors relating to the accounting treatment of up front blowing reports received.
The committee was satisfied that the position Meetings of audit and risk committee chairman with the director taken by management was supportable.
internal audit and with the external auditors.
Goodwill impairment The committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and other FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING assets compared with the value in use for each business in the Group The audit and risk committee shares responsibility with the board for to ensure sufficient headroom, including appropriate sensitivities, and reviewing in detail the annual report and half year results announcements, discussed key assumptions and judgements with both management which provide a clear assessment of the performance and prospects and the external auditors, concluding that no impairment was of the Group through the business model, strategy, and a review of necessary.
The external auditors reported to the committee that strategic risks and financial and non financial performance.
The annual managements approach was appropriate and concurred with report is reviewed at draft stage by sector and functional management managements position that the carrying value of goodwill and to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable.
Also included in the other assets remains supportable.
annual report is the external auditors report to the members providing UAC acquisition an independent opinion on the truth and fairness of the Groups financial The committee discussed with management the progress made statements.
The half year results announcement includes the external in integrating the UAC business into Rexam and the key risks were auditors review report to the Company.
presented to the committee by the AMEA sector.
Internal audit reviews, which took place at the beginning and end of the year, highlighted Other financial information that is to be published is reviewed by the a number of control issues, none of which were significant, and the audit and risk committee for statutory and regulatory compliance and progress being made by management to address those issues.
The is submitted to the board with a recommendation for approval.
committee also discussed with management and the external auditors the acquisition accounting for UAC and specifically the fair values Significant issues considered by the committee attributed to intangible assets, concluding that the accounting The committee has regular discussions with both management and treatment was appropriate.
the external auditors on significant matters.
The following principal risks, judgements and accounting issues were considered by the committee during 2015, as part of the reporting and review process.
