14 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: STRENGTHEN CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS In todays business climate, our customers are not simply Expansion looking at supply chain savings to help drive their growth.
Building on success They also want a global partner who can offer a framework Following successful launches in 2014, in 2015 we expanded for collaboration: a packaging expert who speaks their our design capabilities at our UK language.
This is what can help them stay ahead in their and Russian design centres.
The investment in Luton UK sees the markets, and enables us to maintain our competitive edge.
installation of a fully operational design reproduction studio, whilst new state of the art technology is now available in the Russian centre based in Moscow.
EDITIONS CONTINUES TO DELIVER SLEEK FAMILY EXPANDS Our Editions variable printing portfolio Rexam has added two new can sizes to its continues to grow as our customers exploit Sleek family, reaffirming its position as a the technology to support brand promotion leading global can maker.
and the 473ml Super Sleek cans, both with 202 ends, are manufactured in Ejpovice, 2015 saw a number of customer collaborations Czech Republic, and are available to customers come to fruition, including our biggest in 990 across Europe.
Providing a sophisticated and terms of different cans printed for Baltika.
modern packaging solution, the 400ml can This campaign saw cans produced using 990 Customer collaboration is an ideal shape and size for on the go different Russian city names printed on an We collaborated with Baltika #3, consumption.
The new 202 end on the identical urban skyline graphic using our 50cl one of Russias most popular beer 473ml can offers Rexams customers a more cans.
SABMiller also used our Super Premium brands, to create 990 different convenient filling format and is available in Editions technology for their Czech beer can designs for a first of its kind addition to the existing 206 end.
brand Pilsner Urquell to create a range of limited collection.
Using our patent award winning and limited edition eye pending Editions technology, NEW BEVERAGE CATEGORIES catching can designs.
the design project, completed Last year also saw us further expand into in just three days, is the largest Aiming to stay at the forefront of our industry, new beverage categories.
Bon Affair is one Rexam has undertaken to date.
we are currently developing further variants of the first companies in the US to utilise our in the Editions portfolio.
FUSION aluminium bottle for its single serve sauvignon blanc wine spritzer.
Noahs Spring Water also launched in our innovative and resealable Cap Can in 2015.
