40 LEADERSHIP HOW THE BOARD OPERATES DEFENCE COMMITTEE The board brings leadership to the Group.
It does this through the The board established a defence committee in December 2014 to manage discussions with Ball relating to a possible combination of the development, monitoring and review of the Groups strategy, guided by the executive directors to whom the board delegates the operational two businesses.
The defence committee comprised Stuart Chambers committee chairman, Johanna Waterous senior independent director, management of the business.
It ensures that risks are effectively managed Graham Chipchase, David Robbie and David Gibson.
Since July 2015 through robust policies and procedures, supported by the right values Kath Kearney-Croft has attended meetings of the defence committee in and culture.
The boards primary focus is the sustainable long term David Robbies absence.
The defence committee report their discussions success of the Group to deliver value for shareholders, taking into and actions to the board for full debate and consideration.
Since the account other stakeholders.
The board does not routinely involve itself boards recommendation to Rexam shareholders in February 2015 that in day to day business decisions but there is a formal schedule of matters the terms of the offer received from Ball for the entire issued and to that require the boards specific approval, as well as those which can be issued ordinary share capital of Rexam be accepted, the defence be delegated to committees of the board or senior management.
committee has continued to meet to discuss the Ball offer and related The board retains responsibility for all such delegated matters.
matters and continues to provide updates to the board at regular intervals.
The fundamental matters reserved to the board are: CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE board appointments and removals The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate with each the Groups strategy having clearly defined responsibilities.
Nonetheless, they maintain a close acquisition and disposal of businesses working relationship to ensure the integrity of the boards decision material financial decisions relating to equity, marketable securities, making process and the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
borrowing facilities, guarantees or indemnities and changes in Stuart Chambers is the chairman of the Company.
The chairman creates accounting policies or practice and manages a constructive dialogue between the executive and non all capital expenditure projects over 20m or any capital expenditure executive directors.
He works with the company secretary to ensure that project which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the Groups appropriate matters are discussed during board meetings.
Graham financial criteria Chipchase is the chief executive of the Company.
He has responsibility significant contract approvals for leading the executive directors and the senior executive team in changes to the Groups management and control structures the day to day management of the business and ensures effective matters relating to the Companys share listing implementation of board decisions.
The key responsibilities of both the the appointment and removal of principal advisors and chairman and the chief executive are more fully described on page 41. external auditors.
The written job specifications for the roles of chairman and chief The board considers all matters in an open and transparent environment executive are approved by the nomination committee.
whereby all directors have unrestricted access to information and NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS management.
The board works as a team but independence of thought and At the date of this annual report, Rexam has a non executive chairman approach as well as constructive debate are encouraged.
This collective and five other non executive directors, including a senior independent vision of the Companys purpose, its values, culture and the behaviours director, all of whom are considered to be independent.
Their collective the board promotes, form the foundation of strong corporate governance.
role is to understand the business and its markets, consider proposals on strategy and constructively challenge management.
The non executive BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 2015 directors hold or have held senior positions in industry and commerce, 1 and contribute a wide range of international experience and objective Attendance perspective to the board.
Through the board committees, the non executive Stuart Chambers chairman 9 9 directors bring focus and independence to governance and succession Graham Chipchase 9 9 planning, internal controls, risk management and remuneration policies.
Carl-Peter Forster 9 9 Johanna Waterous is the senior independent director and, if required, John Langston 9 9 will deputise for the chairman.
She is available to talk to shareholders if Leo Oosterveer 9 9 they have any issues or concerns or if there are any unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to her attention.
Ros Rivaz 9 9 2 In addition to planned board and committee meetings, the chairman David Robbie 4 9 meets with the non executive directors to discuss, on a less formal basis, Johanna Waterous 9 9 the Groups performance, strategy, governance, and board succession David Gibson company secretary 9 9 plans.
The executive directors do not attend these meetings.
1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that Non executive directors serve the Company under contracts for services the director could have attended.
which are generally for an initial three year term.
On appointment, an 2 David Robbie was unable to attend five board meetings during the year as he undertaking is requested confirming that the non executive director has was diagnosed with a serious medical condition and was granted a leave of sufficient time to fulfil his or her role on the board and any new absence to undergo medical treatment and chemotherapy.
The Board asked directorships are subject to approval and notification to the board.
Stuart Kath Kearney-Croft, a senior member of the Group finance team, to be acting Chambers has confirmed to the board that his appointment to the Hearings finance director in David Robbies temporary absence and the board has invited Committee of The Panel on Takeovers and Mergers with effect from her to board meetings.
During key periods, David Robbie has continued to 30 April 2016 will not conflict with him discharging his responsibilities provide support to Kath Kearney-Croft and the board.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 41 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Company operates through the board and its main board committees, namely the audit and risk, the nomination and the remuneration committees.
The board evaluates the membership of its individual board committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that each of the committees has a different non executive director as its chairman.
The board committees are governed by terms of reference which detail the matters delegated to each committee and for which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms of reference for the board committees can be found on the Rexam website.
Shareholders The chairman key responsibilities Leads the board.
Ensures compliance with Group policies concerning the conduct of the business.
Promotes a culture of openness, challenge and debate.
Provides guidance to the executive directors and Monitors progress towards the timely and effective senior management.
implementation and achievement of the objectives, policies and strategies set by the board.
Reviews and agrees directors training and development needs.
Ensures that the board has the appropriate balance of Safeguards the interests of shareholders.
skills, experience and diversity, and gives consideration Ensures that the board sets clear expectations concerning to succession planning.
the Groups culture, values and behaviours.
Reviews the effectiveness of the board, its committees, and individual directors.
The board key responsibilities Overall direction of the Groups strategy and the long term success of the Groups business.
For the boards discussions during 2015 see page 42.
Audit and Nomination Remuneration Chief executive committee committee key responsibilities risk committee Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: shareholder value to ensure the board to determine the to monitor the integrity develops and manages and the effectiveness is effective and policy on executive the Group and its trading comprises individuals remuneration, of the Groups financial performance within the and business reporting, with a diverse balance the remuneration authorities delegated of skills, knowledge arrangements for the the performance of the by the board internal and external and experience, and to directors and senior develops and delivers the develop succession plans management and policy audit functions, internal Groups strategic plan control policies and the for the refreshment of the for the Groups annual as agreed by the board board.
For further details and long term incentives.
Groups procedures for ensures the timely and identification, assessment see pages 43 to 45.
For further details see effective implementation pages 54 to 72. and reporting of risk.
For of the objectives, policies further details see pages and strategies set by 46 to 51. the board leads the executive management team Executive leadership team ELT key responsibilities and ensures that management has the The ELT currently comprises appropriate balance Graham David Gibson Rich Grimley nine members being the Chipchase Legal Group Operations of skills and experience Groups most senior business Chief executive Communications ensures management and functional executives.
succession plans and Craig Jones Claude Marbach Carlos Medeiros management development Key objectives: to focus on Beverage Can Africa, Beverage Can Beverage Can plans are in place taking the implementation of the Middle East & Asia North America South America into account the benefits Groups strategy, financial of diversity structure and planning, Iain Percival David Robbie Nikki Rolfe organisational development oversees the Groups Beverage Can Finance director Human resources and policies and to review performance in safety, Europe the Groups financial and health and sustainability competitive performance.
matters Kath Kearney-Croft Finance acting finance director and has been invited to attend meetings during David Robbies absence is the primary interface with shareholders Oliver Graham Commercial Marketing promotes high standards member until 14 December 2015 when he assumed responsibility of ethical business conduct.
for the businesses to be divested in connection with the Ball offer 42 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED BOARD DISCUSSIONS 2015 TO ACHIEVE OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Stakeholder engagement Strategy Risk and governance discussed the strategy and performance engaged with private shareholders at considered the reports on matters the AGM for each business sector with a focus discussed at audit and risk on emerging markets committee meetings considered annual investor audit and discussed integration of the acquisition feedback and broker presentation on reviewed the legal compliance of a controlling interest in United Arab composition of Rexam share register arrangements and policies presented Can Manufacturing Limited, Saudi by the Group and business sectors reviewed Rexams sustainability Arabia, and a joint venture acquisition arrangements and programmes discussed the Group risk management of Envases Del Istmo SA Panama incorporating all aspects of corporate process, risk tracking and mitigation approved the capital expenditure for social responsibility reviewed the Group and business a third line at the beverage can plant engaged with institutional shareholders procedures and controls in Dammam, Saudi Arabia and investor bodies discussed and considered the received reports on the approved received reports on meetings with requirements and content of the purchase of land and build of a new customers and suppliers and viability statement and reviewed beverage can plant in India to meet considered contract terms.
the principal risks identified by the growth demands in that region the Group which were the focus monitored investment in expanding for enhanced stress testing.
the capacity of the FUSION aluminium Delivering our strategy bottle production in the Czech Republic Strengthen our customer relationships maintained a business as usual Invest to capture growth approach to strategic decision making Pursue continuous improvement reviewed reports and agreed in operational excellence parameters relating to the Ball offer Shape our future and associated workstreams Build a winning organisation.
considered research, development and innovation in relation to the Other business strategic agenda to create and The boards recommendation in maximise value February 2015 that the terms of the offer received from Ball for the entire considered and approved responses for global bid process issued and to be issued ordinary share People, culture and values capital of Rexam PLC the Ball offer be approved increase in investment in held board meeting with the approved by Rexam shareholders new plant in Widnau, Switzerland to Beverage Can Europe leadership Consideration of transactional matters add two further lines team and visited the plant in relating to the Ball offer.
approved sector recommendations for Milton Keynes, UK closure of a beverage can plant in reviewed health and safety Germany and investment in plants in arrangements to ensure our Finland, Denmark and Germany.
employees and customers get Budget and performance home safely every day approved the Groups budget for 2016 considered reports on matters and the strategic plan to 2018 discussed at nomination committee maintained oversight of the financial and remuneration committee External environment position of the Group and its meetings updates and discussion on aluminium performance against budget, forecast premium and market influences and market expectations considered appointment of acting finance director discussed the key issues affecting the approved the Groups full year and half focused on the effectiveness of the business and industry trends year results, dividend policy and trading updates board during 2015 following feedback received updates from the audit and from the board evaluation process risk committee on participation in the reviewed the performance of UK governments cyber security considered reports on The Rexam business segments healthcheck and associated actions Pension Plan discussed redemption of B shares in discussed the developing connection with the final phase of the received reports on the Horizon and macroeconomic environment Return of Cash to shareholders Academy programmes hosted by the in regions of operation.
