Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Audit Committee report This report sets out the work carried out by the Audit Committee Committee of the Board with reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code Code and associated best practice guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Governance of the Committee The Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Simon Cloke, who has significant financial experience gained as a Managing Director within HSBC Banks Corporate Sector Group.
In May 2015, Debbie Hewitt joined the Board and became a member of the Committee.
Tony Hughes and Sally Cowdry are also members of the Committee.
The composition of the Committee meets the requirements of the Code to have at least three independent non-executive directors.
Simon Cloke The Board continues to review the composition of the Committee to ensure that it remains proportionate to the task and provides sufficient scrutiny of risk management and internal and external controls.
The Committee regularly invites the external auditor, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to its meetings.
Discussions are held in private when appropriate.
Responsibilities of the Committee These are set out in its terms of reference and the principal requirements are to: provide additional assurance regarding the integrity, quality and reliability of financial information used by the Board and in financial statements issued to shareholders and the public: review the Companys internal procedures for control and compliance with regard to financial reporting to satisfy itself that these are adequate and effective: review the principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the Groups financial statements to ensure they comply with statutory requirements and generally accepted accounting principles: receive reports from the Groups external auditor concerning external announcements, in particular the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report: develop and oversee the Companys policy regarding the external audit process, review the independence of the external auditor, review the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and review and approve the remuneration of the external auditor: and consider any other matter that is brought to its attention by the Board or the external auditor.
The Committee also reviews the whistleblowing arrangements whereby employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters to ensure there are proportionate and independent procedures in place.
During the year, the Board as a whole performed a robust assessment of principal risk factors of the business.
Further details are provided on page 24 of the strategic report.
The Board as a whole is also responsible for reviewing the work carried out by the Group Internal Audit function.
53 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Audit Committee report continued Committee meeting frequency the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and The Committee meets at least twice a year.
Specific accounting policy issues which were meetings of the Committee were held during 2015, the first to considered include the Groups policies in relation to the review and discuss the 2014 year end audit and the second recognition and timing of commercial discounts received to review and discuss the findings from the external auditor and the impairment of tangible fixed assets, among other on the 2015 interim review.
A third formal meeting was held matters.
to discuss, among other things, the Groups risk appetite Commercial discounts received this continues to consistent with achieving its strategic objectives, matters be an area of focus for the Board and Committee.
related to the preparation of the new, long-term viability The Committee considered a detailed report from the statement and the process of planning for the 2015 year end external auditor on this topic and assessed the strength audit.
On one occasion, a conflicting appointment prevented of management controls in this area.
full attendance of the Committee.
The Chairman and other Impairment of tangible fixed assets these continue to members of the Committee also meet with the Chief Financial be the most quantitatively significant item on the balance Officer and the external auditor, as required, to discuss sheet.
The Committee reviewed a paper prepared by matters pertinent to the Committees responsibilities.
This management setting out their approach and challenged included a meeting to discuss the ongoing monitoring of risk the key judgements made relating to impairment as well as management and controls, developments in corporate reviewing this topic in discussion with the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee Other matters lease classification, as either finance or also meets, as required, with the Group Internal Audit function operating leases, is critical to the financial statements and to review their findings.
the Committee continuously assesses managements approach to appropriate classification of leases.
In Committee process addition, consideration of the risk of management override The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined in of controls was a key area of focus.
its terms of reference, through Committee meetings during the year, at which detailed reports are presented for review.
The Committee also considered, with reference to a detailed From time to time, the Committee commissions reports from management paper on this subject, the statement made by external advisers or Company management, either after the Directors that there is a reasonable expectation that the consideration of the Companys major risks or in response Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its to developing issues.
The Committee has the opportunity to liabilities as they fall due over the next three years, known meet privately with the external auditor at least twice a year as the long-term viability statement.
The assessment of the and liaises with Company management in considering areas Groups prospects, together with the Groups going concern for review.
The Groups financial statements are reviewed by statement are set out on page 32, and the long-term viability the Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
statement is set out on page 25.
2015 Committee considerations For further information on the judgements and estimates During the year, the Committee considered the following reviewed in relation to the impairment of tangible fixed assets, matters: see section a of the critical accounting judgements and key interim and full year financial results.
As part of this review sources of estimation and uncertainty in the accounting the Committee received reports from the external auditor policies for the consolidated accounts on page 63. on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts and their review of the Interim Report: Independence of the external auditors Non-audit work and pre-approval policy the external auditors interim and full year reports: The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit work which is in compliance with the scope and cost of the external audit: the Code.
The pre-approved services may be summarised non-audit work carried out by the external auditor in as follows: accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the safeguard of audit independence: audit related services, including work related to the annual Group financial statements audit, advice on applying the effectiveness of the external audit process and revisions to the Code, subsidiary audits and local statutory consideration of the reappointment of the external auditor: accounts: and changes to the Code, strengthening the need for noncertain specified tax services, including tax compliance, executive Directors to satisfy themselves that financial tax planning and tax advice.
information, financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: and 54 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 It is noted that for periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016, The external audit and audit tendering new European Union regulations come into force which Under the Competition & Markets Authority final order restrict or prohibit the nature and amount of non-audit and provision C3.7 of the Code, the Group must tender the services, including tax services, that can be provided by the audit every 10 years.
Deloitte was first appointed as external auditor and require that the permissible non-audit service fees auditor, following a tender process, for the year ended cannot exceed 70% of the average audit fees for the previous 30 December 2007. three years.
Our current understanding is that the cap will be applied prospectively with the three year average comparative The Committee expects to tender the external audit no later period beginning in financial year 2017.
Therefore, for the than the end of the current external audit partners rotation Group, the regulations will first apply for our 2020 year end.
following the 2016 financial year end.
The Group intends to comply with these regulations.
The Committee undertakes a review of the objectivity Auditor independence and effectiveness of the audit process each year.
When Other work to be carried out by the external auditor is subject considering the suitability of the external auditor, the to review by the Committee.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding Committee takes account of the findings set out in the the independence of the external auditor, the Committee Public Report on the most recent inspections of Deloitte takes into account the following: carried out by the FRCs Audit Quality Review team and their reports on all other auditors in its sample.
When considering the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the suitable external auditors the Committee also takes account role of the senior statutory audit partner who signs the audit of the ability of the auditor to add value through observations report and who, in accordance with professional rules, has from the audit process and interactions of the auditor with not held office for more than five years: the Companys management.
the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit Overview relationship: As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has a report from the external auditor describing their concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts reference.
The Committee has reviewed the independence of interest: and objectivity of Deloitte as external auditor and recommends their re-appointment by shareholders at the AGM to be held the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the on 12 May 2016. external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: On behalf of the Audit Committee and the past service of the auditor who was first appointed by Simon Cloke formal tender in 2007.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 9 March 2016 During the year, the Group engaged Deloitte LLP Deloitte to assist with the refinancing of the Groups debt.
Deloitte was chosen for this advice due to their extensive experience and expertise in this area.
The team that performed the work have no involvement with the external audit.
The Committee considered, and was content that, the engagement did not compromise the independence of the external auditor.
Auditor effectiveness To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Committee takes into account: the arrangements for ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the auditors conclusions with regard to existing management and control processes.
