Governance | Corporate governance report Introduction Statement of compliance The following sections explain how the Company applies the The Code sets out the principles and provisions relating to main provisions set out in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance good governance of UK listed companies.
We are pleased to Code, the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council con rm, that for the year under review, the Group has FRC, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct complied fully with the principles and provisions of the Code.
Authority FCA and meets the relevant information provisions Further information on the Code can be found on the FRCs of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA.
The statement of corporate governance covers the The Boards role following areas: The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the The structure and role of the Board and its committees: overall direction and control of the Group and has the powers Relations with the Companys shareholders and the Annual and duties set out in the relevant laws of England and Wales General Meeting AGM : and and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board The reports of the Audit Committee and Nomination delegates certain matters to the Board committees and Committee including Board effectiveness and evaluation.
delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and the day to day operational aspects of the The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out business to the executive directors.
The Boards main separately in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages responsibilities and the key actions carried out during the 42 and 43 and 53 to 66. year are set out below: The Groups risk management and internal control framework and the principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 17 to 18 and 35.
The Directors Report on pages 38 to 40 also contains information required to be included in this statement of corporate governance.
Responsibility Speci c actions during the year Strategy and Two day off-site strategy Approval of the Groups Meetings by the CEO and Review of cash return policy direction workshop, including an budget for 2016 and its COO with global portal and capital structure external consultants input three year business plan peers with insights shared on emerging models, to 2018 with the Board consumer trends and technologies in the portal market and property industry to identify any new threats and opportunities for Rightmove Performance Received regular market Marketing update on Received presentations Regular updates on monitoring updates and reports about nd your happy campaign from senior management business performance competitor activity including particular focus covering progress of relative to analyst on the London market businesses other than UK consensus forecasts residential home advertising and plan Shareholder Reviewed the 2015 AGM Received monthly reports Feedback from the Presentation by analyst on engagement proxy voting gures and on shareholder composition executive directors post their view of Rightmove and made preparations in and signi cant changes to results and investor Rightmove peer comparison respect of the 2015 AGM the shareholder register roadshows 26 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibility Speci c actions during the year Governance Regular management Reviewing and approving Received brie ngs and Active review of the risk and risk and review of the risks the Groups regulatory presentations from senior register by the Chairman appearing on the risk results announcements management covering a and by the Board register including changes and Annual Report wide range of topics in signi cant risks affecting including cyber and security the business and risks, corporate governance considering potential and legal update and 2016 previously unidenti ed risks.
insurance renewal Presentation by Rightmove programme Assurance on risk management and the new viability statement People and values September Board meeting Presentations by senior held in Milton Keynes management to the Board providing the opportunity throughout the year to to interact with employees ensure exposure to the and bene t from interactive Board of the breadth presentations led by and depth of talent employees across a supporting business growth number of departments within the business The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters requiring Board committees speci c approval.
These include: The Board has established three principal committees, The approval of the annual business plan: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and Review of Group strategy: the Nomination Committee, to assist it in the execution of its Changes to the Groups capital structure: duties.
The Chairman of each Committee provides a report Approval of the dividend policy: or update of each meeting of the respective Committee to Acquisitions and disposals: the Board at the subsequent Board meeting.
Appointment and removal of of cers of the Company: The Committees terms of reference are available on the Approval of annual and half-year results and shareholder Companys corporate website, plc.
co. uk or by communications: and request from the Company Secretary.
System of internal control and risk management.
Each of the Committees is authorised, at the Companys expense, to obtain legal or other professional advice to assist The Board normally schedules seven or eight meetings each in carrying out its duties.
No person other than a Committee year although meetings can be scheduled at short notice at member is entitled to attend the meetings of these the request of any director, if required.
In addition to formal Committees, except by invitation of the Chairman of that Board meetings, there is regular informal dialogue between Committee.
Current membership of the Committees is shown on The Board receives meeting papers suf ciently in advance page 30.
The composition of these Committees is reviewed of the meetings to allow time for review and consideration of regularly, taking into consideration the recommendations of the documents beforehand.
If any director has a concern the Nomination Committee.
about any aspect of the business conducted at any Board meeting, the Company Secretary shall discuss this with the director concerned and record their concern or comments in the Board minutes.
The Board receives monthly management and financial reports on the operational and financial performance of the business setting out actual and forecast financial performance against approved budgets in addition to other key performance indicators.
The Board also receives copies of broker reports and press releases relating to the Group.
Rightmove plc annual report 2015 27 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Membership Minimum number required under the of meetings Committee report Committee Role and terms of reference terms of reference per year on pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on At least three Three 32 to 35 the Groups financial reporting, internal members control and risk management systems, the independence and effectiveness of All members should the external audit process and reviewing be independent the plan, results and effectiveness of the non-executive internal audit function.
directors Makes recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders of the Company in relation to the appointment of the external auditors Remuneration Responsible for setting and At least three Two 42 to 43: 53 to 66 recommending to the Board the members remuneration policy and strategy to ensure that the Companys executive All members should directors and senior management are be independent properly incentivised and fairly rewarded non-executive for their individual contributions to the directors Groups overall performance, having due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Group Nomination Undertakes an annual review of At least three Two 36 to 37 organisation and succession planning members and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the The majority should balance of skills, remains appropriate.
be independent Makes recommendations for the non-executive membership of the Board, Audit and directors Remuneration Committees Board composition Board changes The Board at the date of this report comprises three executive In May 2015, Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar retired from directors and five non-executive directors, including the the Board and relevant Committees both having served nine Chairman.
The three executive directors are Nick McKittrick years.
All other directors served throughout the year.
Peter Chief Executive Of cer, Peter Brooks-Johnson Chief Williams became the Senior Independent Director and Operating Of cer and Robyn Perriss Finance Director.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May 2015. non-executive directors are Scott Forbes Chairman, Peter Williams Senior Independent Director, Ashley Martin, Colin Kemp and Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard.
Biographical details of all directors at the date of this report appear on pages 24 to 25 and details of their Committee membership appear on page 30.
Consideration of the Board size and composition is kept under regular review by the Nomination Committee.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Division of responsibilities The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer are separate and there are clear written guidelines to support their division of responsibilities.
The key responsibilities of the Board members are summarised below: Chairman The leadership and governance of the Board: Ensuring its effectiveness by creating and managing constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors: Ensures there is ongoing and effective communication between the Board and its key shareholders: and With the assistance of the Company Secretary, setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussions and that the Board receives suf cient, pertinent, timely and clear information.
Chief Executive Of cer Responsible for the day to day management of the Group: Responsible for the operations and results of the Group: Developing the Groups objectives and strategy and following Board approval, the successful execution of strategy: Responsible for the effective and ongoing communication with shareholders: and Chairing the Executive Committee.
Non-executive directors Constructively challenge the executive directors: and Monitor the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
The non-executive directors bring wide and varied commercial experience and independent judgement to the Board and the Committees deliberations.
The breadth of management, financial and listed company experience of the non-executive directors is described in the biographical details on pages 24 to 25 and demonstrates a range of business expertise that provides the right mix of skills and experience given the size of the Group.
Senior Independent Director Acting in an advisory capacity to the Chairman: Deputising for the Chairman if required: Serving as an intermediary for other directors when necessary: Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer or other executive directors for which such contact is inappropriate: and Conducting an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the non-executive directors.
Company Secretary Monitoring compliance with appropriate Board procedures: Advising the Board on corporate governance matters: Assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all the directors have full and timely access to relevant information: and Assisting the Chairman by organising induction and training programmes.
In addition to her duties as Company Secretary to the Board, the Company Secretary also acts as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
Rightmove plc annual report 2015 29 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Board diversity Re-election to the Board We are committed to a Board comprised of directors from Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance different backgrounds, diverse and relevant experience, with the Articles of Association of the Company and the perspectives, skills and knowledge.
We believe that diversity, provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
All directors are including gender diversity, amongst directors contributes subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment towards a high performing and effective Board.
We strive and to re-election at intervals of no more than three years in to maintain the optimal balance.
accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
As at 31 December 2015, 25% 2014: 25% of Board However, following changes to the Code, all directors will seek members were female.
Consequently, the Board has met its re-election at the 2016 AGM, in accordance with the Code minimum target representation level to be achieved by 2015, provision B.
7.1. as recommended by the Davies Review.
Board and Committee membership and attendance Board independence The membership of the Committees of the Board and The Code provides that the Board should identify in the attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the year Annual Report each non-executive director that it considers under review are set out in the table below: to be independent.
That is, to determine whether the director is independent in character and judgment and whether there Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgment.
Total meetings 8 5 5 2 The Board reviews non-executive director independence 2 Scott Forbes 8 5 N A 2 on an annual basis taking into account such factors as their Nick McKittrick 8 N A N A N A contribution to unbiased and independent debate during meetings.
The Board considers that there is an appropriate Peter Brooks- 8 N A N A N A Johnson balance between the executive 37.5% and non-executive directors 62.5% and that all non-executive directors are fully Robyn Perriss 8 N A N A N A independent of management and independent in character 1 1 1 1 Jonathan Agnew 1 2 1 and judgment.
Colin Kemp 8 5 N A 2 To safeguard their independence, a director is not entitled 5 5 Ashley Martin 8 2 52 to vote on any matter in which they may be con icted or have 1 1 1 1 a personal interest.
Where necessary, directors are required to Judy Vezmar 1 2 1 absent themselves from a meeting of the Board while such 4 4 Peter Williams 8 5 5 2 matters are being discussed.
In cases of doubt, the Chairman 3 3 3 Rakhi Parekh 85 5 2 of the Board is responsible for determining whether a con ict Goss-Custard of interest exists.
The Chairman is also the Chairman of another publicly 1 Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar retired from the Board and relevant Committees on 7 May 2015.
They attended all meetings up until that date.
The executive directors do not hold any 2 The Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the Chairman other non-executive directorships or commitments requiring of the Board attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
3 Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard was appointed to the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee in May 2015.
Prior to that she attended those Board tenure Balance of directors meetings by invitation.
She was invited to attend two Nomination Committee as at 31 December 2015 as at 31 December 2015 meetings on a guest basis.
4 Peter Williams was appointed to the Audit Committee meetings and Nomination Committee in May 2015.
Prior to that he attended the meetings by invitation.
2 5 Ashley Martin stepped down from the Remuneration Committee and was 3 appointed to the Nomination Committee in May 2015.
3 4 2 1 1 0-3 3-6 6-9 10 Executive Chairman Nonyears years years years directors executive directors 30 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts Annual General Meeting meetings with the non-executive directors without the The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain executive directors being present when required.
Peter aspects of the Companys business, and to ask questions of Williams, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting the directors, who will also be available for discussions with of the Board at which the performance of the Chairman was shareholders prior to and after the meeting.
The AGM will also reviewed, without the presence of the Chairman.
be held on 5 May 2016 at the of ces of UBS Limited at 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
Indemni cation of directors The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and The Articles of Association of the Company allow for a related papers to be available on the Companys corporate qualifying third-party indemnity provision between the website at plc.
co. uk or posted to shareholders Company and its directors and of cers, which remains in where requested so as to allow at least 20 working days force at the date of this report.
The Group has also arranged for consideration before the AGM.
directors and of cers insurance cover in respect of legal The Company also complies with the Code with the action against the directors.
Neither our indemnity nor the separation of all resolutions put to the vote of shareholders.
insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven The Company proactively encourages shareholders to vote to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
at general meetings by providing electronic voting for The Group has written policies in compliance with an shareholders who hold their shares through the Crest system internal code of securities dealings in relation to the process and provides personalised proxy cards to ensure that all votes and timing for dealing in shares, which is equivalent to the are clearly identi able.
The Company presently takes votes at Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
The Code applies general meetings on a show of hands on the grounds of to all directors, other persons discharging managerial practicality due to the limited number of shareholders in responsibility and other relevant employees.
Votes are taken by a poll at any shareholder meeting where legally required.
All proxy votes are counted Shareholder relations and the level of proxy votes including abstentions lodged for The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance each resolution are reported after each resolution and and activities of the Company and welcomes the opportunities published on the Companys website.
Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the Company has conducted regular dialogue with institutional shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional investors and research rms to discuss strategy, operating performance and financial performance.
Contact in the UK is principally with the Chief Executive Of cer and the Finance Director.
The Chairman attends certain investor meetings in the UK and typically participates in the USA investor meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to shareholders if they wish to supplement their communication, or if contact through the normal channels is inappropriate.
The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the Company through reports from the Chief Executive Of cer and the Finance Director, as well as reports from the Companys joint brokers, UBS and Numis.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups activities through the half year results statement and Annual Report and the investor relations section of its website, at plc.
co. uk, which provides details of all the directors, latest news including financial results, investor presentations and Stock Exchange announcements.
Rightmove plc annual report 2015 31 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report The Committee welcomes the changes to the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, published in September 2014.
These changes apply to the Group for the first time this year and have been areas of focus for the Committee.
This report also outlines the signi cant accounting matters which received our particular focus during the year.
It seeks to Ashley Martin explain why the issues are considered signi cant and together Chairman of the Audit Committee with the external auditors report provides additional context for understanding the Groups accounting policies and Dear shareholder financial statements for the year.
I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Audit In May 2015 Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar retired Committee the Committee.
from the Board and Committee.
On behalf of the Committee, The Committee is an essential part of Rightmoves I would like to thank them for the wisdom and experience they governance framework to which the Board has delegated have brought to the Committees deliberations over many oversight of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls, years.
We were pleased to welcome Peter Williams and outsourced internal audit function and the relationship with Rakhi Parekh as members of the Committee from May 2015. the external auditors.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions The terms of reference for the Committee were reviewed about the work of the Committee.
during the year with the key responsibilities as follows: Financial Reviewing the financial statements and results reporting announcements and ensuring compliance with relevant regulations: and Ensuring the Groups accounting policies are appropriate, consistently applied and supported by relevant judgments and estimates.
Ashley Martin Internal control Reviewing the processes and systems to identify Chairman of the Audit Committee and internal and mitigate both financial and nonfinancial risks: Approving the internal audit plan, reviewing the Composition and attendance at meetings results and considering the effectiveness of the internal audit function: and Committee members Number of meetings attended Reviewing the procedures for detecting and Ashley Martin Chairman of the Committee 5 out of 5 managing the risk of fraud.
1 Judy Vezmar 1 out of 1 External audit Make recommendations to the Board on the 1 Jonathan Agnew 1 out of 1 appointment of the external auditor, overseeing the relationship and assessing the effectiveness 2 Peter Williams 4 out of 4 of the external audit process.
2 Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard 4 out of 4 A signi cant change in the Groups internal control framework 1 Judy Vezmar and Jonathan Agnew retired from the Board and the Committee on 7 May 2015. last year was the appointment in December 2014 of 2 Peter Williams and Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard were appointed to the  LLP PwC to provide an Committee with effect from 7 May 2015. outsourced internal audit function known as Rightmove Assurance.
During the year we have established a Rightmove The Committee is comprised entirely of independent Assurance Terms of Reference and approved a plan for a two non-executive directors, the biographical details of whom year cycle of work focusing on both core financial processes can be found on pages 24 to 25.
The Board is satis ed that and specialist reviews of certain key risk areas.
We will both Ashley Martin and Peter Williams have recent and continue to monitor and review the effectiveness of the relevant financial skills and experience.
Both have professional Groups internal control and risk management systems with quali cations with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of the support of this new function.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Finance Director and the Head of Finance are normally Revenue recognition invited to attend the meetings as well as the external auditor, The timing of revenue recognition in relation to the billing of KPMG and the internal auditor, PwC.
Other relevant people subscription fees and additional products and services and from the business are also invited to attend certain meetings the accounting for any membership offers to customers with in order to provide a deeper level of insight into certain key discounted or free periods.
This was a prime area of audit issues and developments.
The Committee regularly meets focus with KPMG performing detailed analytical procedures separately with the external and internal auditors without using computer-assisted audit techniques throughout the others being present.
year on amounts billed to the two largest customer groups The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two members.
Agency and New Homes, together with the billing of Appointments to the Committee are for a period of up to three Overseas customers, investigating any anomalies and outliers years, extendable by no more than two additional three-year identi ed and providing detailed reporting to the Committee periods, so long as members continue to be independent.
The Committee discussed any reported The Committee Chairman briefs the Board on the matters anomalies highlighted by KPMG ensuring that adequate discussed at each Committee meeting and the effectiveness of explanations were received from management in line with the operation of the Committee was reviewed as part of the their business understanding.
effectiveness review of the Board and its committees in In addition the Committee received regular updates from December 2015. management discussing current customer offers and their impact on revenue recognition.
Principal activities of the Committee during the year As this area is of higher audit risk the Committee also The principal activities of the Committee through the year, received detailed verbal and written reporting from KPMG on and the manner in which it discharged its responsibilities are this matter.
The Committee was satis ed with the explanations described below: provided and conclusions reached.
Financial reporting Share-based incentives and the related deferred The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial tax balance reporting is to review with both management and the external The external auditors and Committee discussed the auditor the appropriateness of the half-year results statement audit plan and assessed the risks associated with shareand the Annual Report and financial statements including, based incentives and the related deferred tax balances and amongst other matters: concluded that it was no longer a signi cant audit risk area.
The quality and appropriateness of accounting policies and It remains an area of judgement for management given the practices: technical complexity of the calculations and the assumptions The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with relevant around the rate at which the related deferred tax asset is likely financial reporting standards and governance reporting to reverse.
requirements: and Key accounting issues or matters in which signi cant Internal audit judgements have been applied.
The Group established an outsourced internal audit function provided by PwC during 2015 known as Rightmove At the request of the Board, the Committee was asked to Assurance.
The aim of Rightmove Assurance is to provide consider whether the 2015 Annual Report and accounts, independent and objective assurance on the effectiveness of taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and internal control, risk management and governance processes.
provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, and has concluded that this is the case.
The signi cant areas of judgment considered by the Committee in relation to the 2015 Annual Report and how these were addressed were: Rightmove plc annual report 2015 33 Governance | Corporate governance report continued During the year and in accordance with the approved internal Effectiveness of the external audit process audit plan, Rightmove Assurance has carried out reviews The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent in respect of certain core financial processes, the robustness on a number of matters.
These include the quality, continuity, of the risk management framework in the context of the new experience and training of audit personnel, business Corporate Governance Code, options in relation to the understanding, technical knowledge and the degree of rigour provision of mortgage content on the www.
co. uk applied in the review processes of the work undertaken, website, the identi cation and prevention of certain fraudulent together with appropriate audit risk identi cation at the start online activities by third parties against Rightmove and the of the audit cycle.
systems and controls in place to prevent the loss or malicious The Committee evaluated the effectiveness of the audit publication of Rightmove data.
Reports setting out their process in addressing these matters together with input principal findings and agreed management actions were from management.
Areas the Committee considered in this discussed by the Committee.
review included the quality of audit planning and execution, engagement with the Committee and management, quality External audit of reporting and capability and experience of the audit team.
KPMG has been the Groups auditors since 2000.
Following For the 2015 financial year, the Committee were satis ed the 2012 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code by that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the Financial Reporting Council, a decision was made by the the primary areas of audit risk and concluded that the Committee to formally tender the provision of audit and performance of KPMG remained ef cient and effective.
taxation services to the Group.
A comprehensive tender and review process was concluded in March 2013.
The Committee Non-audit services was satis ed that the skills and depth of industry knowledge in The Committee also discussed its responsibilities to safeguard the team remained very strong and combined with the fresh audit objectivity and independence as well as the needs of the perspective of the new audit partner decided that KPMG business and agreed that it was practical in certain limited should be re-appointed as the Groups auditor, with Karen cases for the auditor to be assigned to other non-audit project Wightman taking over responsibility as lead audit partner work due to their knowledge and expertise of the business.
The EU Audit Regulations have not yet been formally In November 2015 the Committee agreed a policy that enacted in the UK, however, in October 2015 the Department management be given authority to incur permitted non-audit for Business Innovation & Skills consultation on the legislative fees up to 50% of the annual agreed audit fee in any financial implementation of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation, year without the prior approval of the Committee.
Thereafter commented that a tender of an audit engagement resulting in all additional fees will be referred to the Committee in the reappointment of the incumbent auditor for an accounting advance, subject to a cap on permitted non-audit fees at 70% period beginning up to 10 years before the application of the of the average audit fees over the three preceding financial new EU Audit Directive and Regulation, effective 17 June years, in line with the forthcoming new EU Regulations.
2016 The EU Regulation, should be treated as a tender for Permitted non-audit fees exclude those services prohibited by the purposes of the transitional provisions.
As KPMG were the EU requirements, in particular all tax services.
Non-audit reappointed in 2013 following a competitive tender process, services required by legislation are not subject to the cap.
we therefore anticipate Rightmoves next requirement to In 2015 the non-audit fees were 5,000 in relation to tender its audit will be for the 2023 calendar accounting year.
other advisory services and were 10,000 in relation to tax These timeframes will also ensure compliance with the compliance and advice and are fully disclosed in Note 6 of provisions of the CMA Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. the financial statements.
As a result of the forthcoming The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner EU regulations on permitted non-audit services, KPMG will responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current lead no longer be able to provide tax compliance and advisory partner, Karen Wightman, has been in place for three years.
services and we have therefore appointed PwC to provide The Committee also approved the fees of KPMG during these services in 2016. the year.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Internal controls A comprehensive disaster recovery and business continuity The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of plan based upon: internal controls and has established a framework of financial co-hosting of the rightmove.
co. uk website across three and other controls which is periodically reviewed in accordance separate locations which is regularly tested and reviewed: with the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to Directors the capability for employees to r emote work from home or publication for its effectiveness.
a third party location in the event of a loss of one our The Board has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate premises which has been tested for both our London and measures to ensure that the chances of financial irregularities Milton Keynes of ces during the year.
occurring are reduced as far as reasonably possible by Regular testing of the security of the IT systems and improving the quality of information at all levels in the Group, platforms, regular backups of key data and ongoing threat fostering an open environment and ensuring that the financial monitoring to protect against the risk of cyber attack: analysis is rigorously applied.
Any system of internal control is A treasury function which manages cash ow forecasts and designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to cash on deposit and counterparty risk and is responsible for achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable monitoring compliance with banking agreements, where and not absolute assurance against material misstatement appropriate: and or loss.
Whistleblowing and bribery policies of which all employees The Groups management have established the are made aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing line management or, if appropriate, con dentially outside the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the line management.
signi cant risks to the Group.
These procedures have been in place for the whole of the financial year ended Through the procedures outlined above, the Board, with 31 December 2015 and up to the date of the approval of advice from the Committee, has considered all signi cant these financial statements and they are reviewed regularly.
aspects of internal control for the year and up to the date of The key elements of the system of internal control are: this Annual Report.
No signi cant failings or weaknesses were Major commercial, strategic, competitive and financial risks identi ed during this review.
However, had there been any are formally identi ed, quanti ed and assessed, discussed such failings or weaknesses, the Board con rms that with the executive directors, after which they are considered necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
by the Board: A comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and monitoring Group results.
This includes monthly management reporting and monitoring of performance against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for all signi cant variances: An organisational structure with clearly fide ned lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: Clearly fide ned policies for capital expenditure and investment exist, including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval: Rightmove plc annual report 2015 35 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee report Peter Williams was appointed Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman in May 2015.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Scott Forbes Chairman of the Nomination Committee Scott Forbes Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholder Composition and attendance at meetings I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Nomination Committee the Committee.
Committee members Number of meetings attended The Committees role is to regularly review the structure, Scott Forbes 2 out of 2 size and composition including the skills, knowledge and Chairman of the Committee experience of the Board, with a view to ensuring the Peter Williams 2 out of 2 continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace, and make recommendations to the Board with Ashley Martin 2 out of 2 regard to any changes.
Colin Kemp 2 out of 2 The terms of reference for the Committee were reviewed 1 Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard 2 out of 2 during the year with the key responsibilities as follows: 1 During the year Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard, non-executive director, Board evaluation Evaluate the performance of the Board both attended the meetings by invitation.
collectively and individually against performance criteria.
Determine the level of Board Membership effectiveness based on the assessment.
The Committee is comprised entirely of non-executive Organisation and Give full consideration to the organisation and directors, the biographical details which can be found on succession succession plan in order to identify the executive pages 24 to 25.
As at 31 December 2015 three out of the four planning and non-executive resources required for the members of the Committee were considered by the Board to Company to meet its strategic objectives.
The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two members.
At the request of the Committee Chairman, In 2015 the Committee reviewed the organisation and the Chief Executive Of cer is normally invited to attend the succession plans and conducted its tri-annual, externally meeting to discuss the annual organisation and succession facilitated Board evaluation and Board skills and plan.
The Chairman of the Company may not chair the The external Board evaluation was conducted by Echelon Committee in connection with any discussion about the Compensation Partners Echelon and the Board skills and appointment of his successor to the chairmanship of the composition review by Korn Ferry International Korn Ferry.
In these circumstances, the Senior Independent Echelon have no other connection with the Company.
Korn Director will take the chair.
Ferry, an executive search rm, conducted a Board review Appointments are for a period of up to three years, in 2012 and successfully placed Peter Williams and Rakhi extendable by no more than two additional three year Parekh Goss-Custard.
Further details on the Board skills periods, so long as members continue to be independent.
and composition review can be found in the section on Board effectiveness and evaluation on page 37 of my report below.
Principal activities of the Committee during 2015 Following completion of their third term of service to the During the year the Committee has: Board, both Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar retired from Reviewed the Board composition: the Board and Committees after the 2015 AGM.
The Board Reviewed the Board committees composition: now consists of eight directors, including five non-executive Approved the plans for the organisation and succession directors, four of which are considered to be independent.
of the executive directors and senior management: 36 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Agreed the process for and considered the outcome of The Board skills and composition review involved a series the Boards external evaluation: of Korn Ferry independent interviews with each executive and Considered the diversity of the Board and agreed the non-executive director.
Questions were intended to identify policy regarding gender composition on the Board: and the Groups strategy and the ideal capabilities and experience Conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
required on the Board that will best support the Groups effort to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board skills and Board induction and training composition review also explored corporate governance All new non-executive directors joining the Board undertake requirements including compliance with the UK Corporate a tailored induction programme to meet their individual needs.
Governance Code, best practice and diversity policies.
Priority This covers for example: the operation and activities of the capabilities and experience were cross-referenced against the Group including meeting with members of the senior pro le of the current Board both at the present time and as management team, spending a day on the road with a sales of the anticipated dates that directors will retire in order to director meeting our customers and attendance at an Agency identify gaps against which the Boards recruitment policy seminar, the role of the Board and the decision making is based.
matters reserved to it, the responsibilities of the Board The work of Korn Ferry was substantially complete in Committees: and the strategic challenges and opportunities December 2015, with the results of the review to be facing the Group.
distributed in a report to the Committee in early 2016.
There are procedures in place for individual Board The Committee will review the report and discuss its members to receive training and to seek the advice and recommendations with the Board as part of an ongoing services of independent professional advisers, at the Groups process to ensure that the Board operates at a high level of expense, where speci c expertise or training is required in effectiveness forti ed by the most appropriate resources in furtherance of their duties.
support of the Groups business strategy.
Board effectiveness and evaluation The Board is committed to undertaking annual reviews of its own performance and also the performance of its Committees and individual directors.
For the past two years, the Board has undertaken an internal self-assessment.
This year, Echelon, an external rm of consultants, was appointed to undertake an independent review of the performance of the Board and its Committees together with a Board skills and composition review which was undertaken by Korn Ferry.
The external Board evaluation was conducted by Echelon in the fourth quarter of 2015.
The evaluation results including anonymous ratings and comments were summarised in a report and discussed by the Committee and Board in December 2015.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and Committees operate at a high degree of effectiveness with all individuals contributing with plenty of open debate and challenge from all directors.
Recommendations for continued development included remaining proactive in the search for the right talent, both at the Board and executive level: further enhancing Board diversity by recruiting more female non-executives or non-executives from different ethnic backgrounds: and ensuring that the Group strategy continues to be both communicated and understood at levels beyond the executive management team.
An internally facilitated review of the performance of the Board and its Committees will again be conducted during 2016.
