STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS Corporate governance Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate the ultimate responsibility for the Director independence governance to comply with the regulatory compensation of the external auditors and the The tests of independence of a non-executive obligations associated with its three principal appointment of the external auditors of director vary between the jurisdictions where stock exchange listings in the UK, Australia Rio Tinto plc rests with the shareholders.
The Nominations and the US.
Committee has adopted a formal policy for the Further information about the corporate determination of the independence of the Statement of compliance with governance framework is available in the non-executive directors.
governance codes and standards Corporate governance section of in 2015 Rio Tintos website.
Among the key criteria of the independence policy are independence from management In compiling this report, the directors have The board and the absence of any business relationship referred to the September 2014 edition of the which could materially interfere with the Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a  theCode, the directors independence of judgement and common board of directors.
The directors are ASX Corporate Governance Councils Corporate ability to provide a strong, valuable responsible for the success of the Group and, Governance Principles and Recommendations contribution to the boards deliberations, or through the independent oversight of RD 3 edition the ASX Principles, and the New which could interfere with the directors ability management, are accountable to shareholders York Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate to act in the best interests of the Group.
Where for the performance of the business.
Governance Standards the NYSE Standards.
contracts in the ordinary course of business Role and responsibilities Throughout 2015, and at the date of this exist between Rio Tinto and a company in The principal role of the board is to set the report, the Group applied the principles of, and which a director has declared an interest, these Groups strategy and to review regularly its , theASX are reviewed for materiality both to the Group, strategic direction.
In doing this, the board also Principles and, except in the one instance and the other party to the contract.
Material has responsibility for corporate governance.
noted below, with the Code.
is defined in the policy as being where the relationship accounts for more than two A formal schedule of matters reserved by the TheGrouphasnot, asrequiredbyCode per cent of either partys consolidated gross board has been established by the directors.
provision C. 3.7, put its external audit contract revenue per annum, although the test also , out to tender within the last ten years.
A takes other circumstances into account.
The major investments, acquisitions and discussion of the Groups position on the timing Code includes criteria to assess independence divestments and oversight of risk.
It is available of the audit tender and the reason for the delay where a director has served on the board for on the website.
is set out on page 60 of this report.
more than nine years from the date of their first Responsibility for day-to-day management of Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American election by shareholders.
 Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE, is The chairman was considered independent and other members of the Executive obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any upon his appointment under the Code, and in Committee under a Group delegation of significant ways in which its practices of the boards view he continues to satisfy the authorities.
A number of management corporate governance differ from the tests for independence under the ASX committees support the chief executive and NYSE Standards.
Principles and the NYSE Standards.
the Executive Committee in the performance of The Company has reviewed the NYSE their duties.
After rigorously applying the criteria of the Standards and believes that its practices are independence policy, the board is satisfied that As part of the annual financial planning broadly consistent with them, with the all of its non-executive directors are and process, the board sets annual performance following exceptions where the literal remain independent.
Richard Goodmanson, targets, which include personal and business requirements of the NYSE Standards are not who was elected by shareholders in 2005, is performance measures, under the Groups met due to differences in corporate governance not standing for re-election in 2016 and will short-term incentive plan detailed on page 80 between the US and UK Australia.
retire at the end of the annual general meeting for the chief executive.
These performance The NYSE Standards state that companies of Rio Tinto Limited in May 2016. targets are determined by the Remuneration must have a nominating corporate governance Committee on behalf of the board.
The chief Executive directors other directorships committee composed entirely of independent executive establishes targets for the Executive Executive directors may be invited to become directors which, in addition to identifying Committee.
Those objectives are cascaded non-executive directors of other companies.
individuals qualified to become board throughout management teams.
The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the members, develops and recommends to the board, operates a procedure under which Details of the terms of appointment of the board a set of corporate governance principles approval may be given to accept such directors and members of the Executive applicable to the company.
Rio Tinto has a invitations, recognising the benefit to be Committee are discussed in the Remuneration Nominations Committee comprising the derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from Policy section of the Remuneration Report on chairman and independent non-executive such appointments.
 directors, information about which is set out on executives external appointments are set out the executive directors and other members of page61.
 on page 51. the Executive Committee are discussed in the corporate governance principles for the Implementation Report section of the boards approval.
The board itself develops Election and re-election Remuneration Report on pages 79, 81 to 85 such principles.
The directors may appoint additional members and pages 86 to 88 respectively.
to join the board during the year.
Directors Under US securities law and the NYSE appointed in this way will be subject to election Board balance and independence Standards, the company is required to have an by shareholders at the first annual general Board composition audit committee that is directly responsible for meetings after their appointment.
In The names, skills and experience of each the appointment, compensation, retention and subsequent years, the directors are expected director together with their terms in office are oversight of the work of external auditors.
to submit themselves for re-election at the shown in the biographical details on pages 51 While the Rio Tinto Audit Committee makes annual general meetings each year.
Details of changes to the board during recommendations to the board on these 2015 and in the year to date are set out in the matters, and subject to legal and regulatory Directors report on page 53. requirements on oversight of audit tenders, 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 55 Corporate governance continued Non-executive directors are normally In addition, the directors are in regular The first stage of the process involved agreeing expected to serve at least six years and would informal communication with members of the questions with the chairman and the not typically serve more than nine years.
Executive Committee and other members of committee chairmen for discussion with Non-executive directors serving more than senior management.
This helps to foster an directors and the Group company secretary in nine years are subject to rigorous open and regular exchange of knowledge interviews to be conducted by Lintstock during independence review by the Nominations and experience.
All new non-executive directors undertake a The findings from these questionnaires and All directors apart from Richard Goodmanson full, formal and tailored induction on joining the interviews will form the basis of evaluation will offer themselves for re-election at the board.
The board is provided with training and reports for the board and its committees.
annual general meetings in 2016 and further development opportunities during the year.
These will contain recommended actions which details about each of them are set out on pages The directors regularly attend site visits to the will be discussed with the chairman and the 51 to 53 and in the notices of the annual  chairmen of the committees ahead of a full general meetings.
meet with employees and, from time to time, review at meetings of the board and its shareholders and other key stakeholders.
In Governance processes committees expected to occur in mid-2016.
2015, new members of the board visited our In 2015, there were nine scheduled board iron ore mines, rail and port facilities in the The non-executive directors, led by the senior meetings.
Details of the directors attendance Pilbara, Western Australia, and the full board independent director, are responsible for the at all of the board and committee meetings visited our recently modernised aluminium performance evaluation of the chairman.
held in 2015 are set out on the following page.
smelting operations in Kitimat, Canada as well Lintstock will also facilitate this review through  as our bauxite mining operations in Weipa, a questionnaire and interviews and report to management on the Groups strategy.
These visits are designed to ensure the senior independent director.
Non-executive discussions typically include presentations directors have appropriate knowledge of the directors will meet to give their views and the given by senior management during the year.
company and access to its operations and staff.
senior independent director will also seek the The board attends an annual two-day strategy views of the executive directors.
The senior Progress against our priorities meeting with the Executive Committee, which independent director will give feedback on the Progress made towards achieving the priorities includes broader, detailed review sessions on chairmans performance to him at the set by the board during 2015 is set out on the Groups strategic direction.
The outputs conclusion of this process.
pages 10 and 11. from this event help underpin the boards The chairman continues to be responsible for annual financial planning exercise and provide Performance evaluation the assessment of each individual directors strategic direction and focus to the Executive An exercise is undertaken periodically to performance and contribution.
evaluate the effectiveness of the board, board committees and individual directors.
Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate information to enable them to fulfil In February 2015 the board reviewed the their duties.
They also have direct access to the outcome of the 2014 evaluation of its advice and services of the Group company performance.
The Chairmans Committee secretary, who is accountable to the board and reviewed progress against the recommended advisesthechairman, and, throughthe actions from that evaluation in July 2015, and chairman, the board on all governance matters.
reported its findings to the board in August , through 2015. the Group company secretary, independent The board decided to adjust the timetable for professional advice at the Groups expense.
the 2015 evaluation to better suit its annual The chairman and non-executive directors schedule.
In the fourth quarter of 2015, the meet, typically at the start of each board board engaged Lintstock Limited, a specialist meeting, without the executive directors corporate governance consultancy with no present, to create an opportunity for nonother connections to the company, to executive directors to raise any issues undertake an independent evaluation of the in private session.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during 2015 Board Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Chairmans c c c c c c d scheduled Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Jan du Plessis 9 9 7 7 4 4 13 13 ChrisLynch 9 9 11 13 SamWalsh 9 9 12 13 Robert Brown 9 9 6 6 4 4 Megan Clark 9 9 5 5 a Michael Fitzpatrick 4 4 2 2 4 4 2 2 Ann Godbehere 9 9 6 6 4 4 Richard Goodmanson 9 9 7 7 5 5 4 4 b Lord Kerr 4 4 2 2 2 2 Anne Lauvergeon 9 9 5 5 4 4 Michael LEstrange 9 9 5 5 4 4 Paul Tellier 9 9 6 6 7 7 4 4 Simon Thompson 9 9 5 5 4 4 John Varley 9 9 6 6 7 7 4 4 a Stood down from the board on 7 May 2015. b Stood down from the board on 7 May 2015. c The number of meetings attended maximum number the director could have attended.
d This included two meetings during which Mr Lynch was in transit to Australia to present the full and half year results.
In both cases, Mr Lynch attended a sub-committee meeting with the Group company secretary to finalise the results announcements.
The committees are governed by terms of The chief executive is assisted by the key Governance structure reference, set and approved by the board, management committees noted below in The board has established committees which which are reviewed annually.
The terms of monitoring performance and delivering are responsible for audit, remuneration, reference of the Audit, Nominations, Rio Tintos strategy.
In Remuneration and Sustainability Committees addition, a Chairmans Committee operates may be viewed in the Corporate governance under delegated authority between scheduled section of the website.
These committees support the board in ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained across the Group.
Board of directors Audit Sustainability Remuneration Nominations Chairmans Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief executive Disclosure Investment Executive Closure Ore Reserves Risk Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Steering Committee Committee Board committees Management committees 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 57 Corporate governance continued Board committees Audit Committee report Chairmans introduction Dear shareholders The Audit Committee fulfils an important oversight role on behalf of the board and is focused on the quality of the Groups financial reporting and the effectiveness both of the Groups systems of internal control and its risk management processes.
In 2015 our activities included: Reviewing asset carrying values, cash generating units, pension valuations and other material accounting matters.
Reviewing Group Audit & Assurance findings and approving the Internal Audit Plan and budget and the associated resources.
Reviewing internal controls over financial reporting SOx testing results.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls systems.
Reviewing reports from the head of Group Compliance.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems.
Considering the requirement for the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
Assessing managements projections under different scenarios to allow the board to make its assessment of the longer-term viability of the company.
We have also focused on ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the external audit processes, having regard to the legal and regulatory requirement to tender the external audit by 2020.
This included: Holding discussions between the Committee and the external auditor regarding the rotation of the UK audit engagement partner after the 2015 year end and the introduction to the Committee from November 2015 of PwCs agreed replacement, Mr Paul Barkus.
The Committee also agreed the replacement of the Australian audit engagement partner after the 2016 year end.
Conducting ongoing monitoring of all non-audit activities performed by the Groups external auditors and approval of their audit engagement contracts and compensation.
Reviewing managements evaluation of the effectiveness of PwC for Group audit and local statutory audit work, discussed in more detail below, as well as the outcomes of the Audit Quality Review of PwC by the Financial Reporting Council in the UK and the Quality Assurance Department of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Committees additional work during 2015 included undertaking training and development on relevant accounting topics, considering the findings from the 2014 evaluation of the Committees performance, and reviewing the impact of the EU Statutory Audit Amending Directive both on the regulatory environment in which the Group operates and on the way that the Committee will discharge our terms of reference in 2016.
In early 2016, the Committee considered, at the request of the board, the draft 2015 Annual report and accounts, to assess whether it is, taken as a whole, fair, balanced and understandable.
During the remainder of 2016 the Committee will follow our annual schedule of meetings and topics for discussion and approval and we will report on thesamein2017.
Ann Godbehere Audit Committee chairman 2 March 2016 58 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OPERATIONS Membership the external auditors appointment and Significant issues relating to the Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere relationship : financial statements chairman, Robert Brown, Paul Tellier and The significant issues considered by the the effectiveness of the risk management John Varley.
Michael Fitzpatrick stepped down Committee in relation to the financial framework: and from the Committee with effect from 7 May statements are set out in the table below, the integrity and compliance programme 2015 upon his retirement from the board.
together with a summary of how the issue was including the Groups Speak-OUT addressed by the Committee.
In addition, the whistleblowing programme.
Key responsibilities Committee and the external auditors have  In carrying out its responsibilities, the discussed the significant issues addressed by assist the board in monitoring decisions and Committee has full authority to investigate all the Committee during the year and the areas of processes designed to ensure the integrity of matters that fall within its terms of reference.
particular audit focus, as described in the financial reporting, sound systems of internal Accordingly, the Committee may: Independent Auditors Report on control and risk management.
pages 202 to 208. obtain, through the Group company The Committees terms of reference set out its secretary, independent professional advice main responsibilities, and are available to view on in the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of the website.
The Committee is responsible for: theGroup:and financial reporting:  the Group as it may reasonably internal control, including internal control require including the external and over financial reporting: internal auditors.
internal audit and assurance: Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee Review of carrying value of The Committee assessed managements determination of cash-generating units, review of cash-generating units and impairment triggers and consideration of potential impairment charges and reversals over the impairment charges course of the year.
For cash-generating units dependent upon major capital spend Oyu Tolgoi and Simandou and for commodities with weak demand outlook eg uranium the Committee considered the key judgments made by management in relation to discount rate, forecast commodity prices and actions being taken to recover value.
The Committee reviewed disclosures related to the sensitivity of recoverable amounts in note 6 on page 130 and the impairment charge of US$2.8 billion recorded in 2015.
Estimate of provision for closure, restoration The Committee reviewed the significant changes in the estimated provision for closure, restoration and environmental obligations and environmental obligations by product group and legacy management.
It considered managements proposed accounting for such changes in this complex area including, where appropriate, the treatment of long-dated monitoring and maintenance costs.
At 31 December 2015, the Groups balance sheet included provision for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations of US$8.4 billion as described in note 26 on page 144.
Policy for items excluded from The Committee approved the Groups policy for exclusion of certain items from underlying underlying earnings earnings and confirmed consistent application of this policy year on year.
The Committee reviewed action taken by management in late 2015 to reduce the foreign currency retranslation volatility arising from currency exchange gains and losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances by converting US dollar debt to local currency in Canada and Australia.
The items excluded from underlying earnings amounted to US$5.4 billion and are described in note 2 on page 125.
The Groups tax exposures The Committee considered managements assessment of the Groups tax exposures including the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the appropriateness of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
At 31 December 2015, the Groups balance sheet included a net tax payable liability of US$234 million.
Defined benefit pension plan During 2015 the Committee received a comprehensive update on the status of funding, investment surpluses and deficits and governance of pensions and other retirement benefits provided to current and former employees of the Group.
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee critically assessed the projections of future cash flows under different scenarios of the financial statements and compared these with cash balances and committed facilities available to the Group.
The Committee satisfied itself that it was appropriate to recommend to the board the adoption by the Group of the going concern basis of preparation.
Finance transformation The Committee reviewed the progress of the Groups finance transformation programme which includes the centralisation and outsourcing of certain finance activities excluding key controls to a third-party provider.
Group Audit & Assurance has performed a series of point-in-time reviews of the effectiveness of the finance transformation governance structure and the transition of certain processes to the outsourcing provider and reported on the findings from these reviews to the Committee.
com 59 Corporate governance continued Governance processes In exceptional circumstances, the chief The Committee continues to believe that the The Committee met six times in 2015.
The financial officer is authorised to engage the requirements of good governance and the chairman of the board, chief financial officer, external auditors to provide such services needs of Rio Tinto are best served by other senior management and external and without going to tender, but if the fees are tendering in the above timeframe for the internal auditors regularly attended the expected to exceed certain pre-determined following reasons: Committees meetings.
The Committee carries limits the chairman of the Committee must The Group continues to undergo significant out its business following an agreed annual give prior approval of the engagement.
All of business process change through the cost cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
the engagements for services provided by PwC saving programme, which includes were either within the pre-approval policies or  outsourcing of certain activities including separately approved by the Committee.
The independent and free of any relationship that the finance transformation programme.
Committee members are satisfied that the would affect their impartiality in carrying out A measured rotation timetable maintains provision of non-audit services by PwC in their responsibilities.
The members meet the stability in the independent oversight accordance with this procedure is compatible independence requirements of the Code, the provided by the external auditors while the with the general standard of independence for .
The business fully implements the changes to auditors imposed by relevant regulations.
Committee meets the composition, operation maximise efficiency and effectiveness.
A breakdown of the categories of permitted and responsibility requirements of the Rio Tinto draws on expertise from other non-audit services and the fees paid to PwC for ASX Principles.
accounting firms and therefore a rotation of .
external audit services will require careful The Committee is also bound by SEC The external auditors attended all six planning of transition periods to ensure that requirements for audit committees financial Committee meetings during the year.
In all services are fully contracted experts and the requirements of the Code and advance of the Committee meetings, the audit throughout the rotation process.
ASX Principles that at least one committee partners brief the chairman of the Committee member should have recent and relevant Rio Tinto ensures independence through other on key matters.
Private discussion sessions financial qualifications and experience.
Ann means, including detailed review, challenge were held between PwC and the Committee Godbehere, chairman of the Committee, is and reporting of all work performed by without management present to discuss the considered by the board to have recent and accounting firms.
A summary is presented status of the audit and the nature of relevant financial experience, and financial annually to the Audit Committee of the fees interactions with management.
qualifications, and has been designated the incurred and nature of work performed.
All other During the year, the Committee reviewed the information on fees paid to PwC in 2015 for members of the Committee are, in the opinion effectiveness of PwC for Group audit and local audit and non-audit services are set out on oftheboard,  statutory audit work.
The evaluation, managed page 50 of the Directors report.
by virtue of their business experience.
by the Groups financial controllers, took the However, the Committee keeps the external form of a survey comprising a range of The Committee considered reports from audit arrangements under regular review and if questions covering objectivity, quality and management in order to assess the quality and it deemed it appropriate may accelerate the effectiveness of the Groups internal control efficiency, and was completed by individual planned appointment of new auditors at systems, including the effectiveness of the Rio Tinto business units.
The results of this any time.
Groups internal controls over financial survey and review were assessed by the reporting and the Groups disclosure controls Committee which concluded that PwC The Company confirms that it complied and procedures in accordance with sections continued to provide a high-quality audit and with the provisions of the Competition and 404 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. effective and independent challenge to Markets Authoritys Order for the financial The Committee separately received objective management.
The Committee was satisfied year under review.
reports from PwC and Group Audit & Assurance with the external audit process and that the Sustainability Committee report on the activities undertaken in reviewing and independence of the external auditors was in Members of the Committee are Richard auditing the control environment.
Goodmanson chairman, Anne Lauvergeon,  PwC have been the external auditors since Michael LEstrange, Simon Thompson and of Group Audit & Assurance and Compliance before the formation of the DLC structure in Megan Clark.
Lord Kerr stood down from the from time to time without management 1995, and their reappointment has not been Committee with effect from 7 May 2015 upon present and the chairman of the Committee subject to a tender during that time.
In the UK, his retirement from the board.
Megan Clark will has regular discussions with them.
the audit engagement partner Richard Hughes assume chairmanship of the Committee upon was appointed in 2011 and will rotate off the Richard Goodmansons retirement from the The Committee maintains a clearly defined account after the 2015 year-end audit process.
board in May 2016. policy for the pre-approval of permitted As noted above his role will be assumed by services provided by the Groups external Key responsibilities Paul Barkus.
In Australia the audit engagement auditors, PwC.
For non-audit services, because The Committee assists the board with partner Paul Bendall was appointed in 2012 of their knowledge, experience and or for overseeing strategies designed to manage and is due to transition off the account after the reasons of confidentiality, it can be more social and environmental risks, overseeing December 2016 year-end audit process.
His efficient or necessary to engage the external management processes and standards, and role will be assumed by Debbie Smith.
auditor rather than another party.
achieving compliance with social and The Committee considers its recommendations environmental responsibilities and At half year and year end, the chief financial to the board on the appointment and commitments.
The Committee reviews the officer and the external auditors submit to the reappointment of auditors annually, and effectiveness of management policies and Committee a schedule of the services that were specifically has responsibility for establishing procedures relating to safety, health, performed by PwC during the period.
The formal and transparent arrangements with employment practices, relationships with Audit Committee may impose a financial limit PwC.
The Committee has reviewed the neighbouring communities, environment, on the total value of other permitted services timetable for tendering, taking into account all human rights, land access, political that can be provided.
Any non-audit service relevant regulation and guidance.
In light of involvement and sustainable development.
The provided by the external auditors, where the this, the Committee proposes to tender the Committees terms of reference set out its expected fee exceeds a pre-determined level, audit in 2018 with the new auditors appointed main responsibilities, and are available to view must be subject to the Groups normal tender procedures.
no later than for the 2020 financial year.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance processes Key responsibilities Remuneration Committee In 2015, the Committee met five times.
The The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the The report of the Remuneration Committee is chairman of the board, chief executive, and board, for regularly assessing the balance of set out on pages 67 to 104.
It has been other senior management regularly attend its executive and non-executive directors and the recommended by the Committee for approval meetings.
The Committee carries out its composition of the board in terms of the skills, bytheboard,  business following an agreed annual cycle of experience, diversity and capacity required to on2March2016.
 meetings and topics for consideration.
oversee the delivery of Rio Tintos strategy.
sections dealing with the responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and how it spent its  The Committee develops and agrees in time in 2015. independent in accordance with the advance the desired profiles of potential independence policy adopted by the candidates for board membership.
It oversees Members of the Committee are John Varley Nominations Committee.
the recruitment process and engages external chairman, Jan du Plessis, Richard search consultants to manage searches on its Goodmanson and Paul Tellier.
Michael 2015 activities behalf, including constructing shortlists Fitzpatrick stood down from the Committee In 2015 the Committee: comprising candidates from diverse with effect from 7 May 2015 upon his Reviewed key risks associated with process backgrounds and conducting appropriate retirement from the board.
safety and communities and social background and reference checks on Richard Goodmanson will retire from the performance, and managements plans for shortlisted candidates.
Following a final review Committee when he retires from the board on tackling them.
of shortlisted candidates, the Committee 5 May 2016.
Megan Clark will join the makes recommendations for new board Reviewed work plans formulated for health, Committee with effect from 1 May 2016. members to the board for approval.
safety, environment, communities and Key responsibilities employment practices, and assurance over The Committee engages Egon Zehnder from The Remuneration Committee assists the selected areas within the Committees time to time.
Egon Zehnder conducts searches board with fulfilling its oversight responsibility terms of reference.
and executive evaluations for a number of to shareholders.
In particular, the Committee Undertook reviews around major risk areas, Rio Tinto positions and not only at board and seeks to spend compensation resource fairly including geotechnical risk and water Executive Committee level.
Egon Zehnder has and responsibly to ensure that remuneration management, as well as a review of the no other connection with the company.
policy and practices are properly linked to framework in place to manage the Groups On behalf of the board, the Committee also corporate and individual performance and to material risks for which the Committee has reviews proposals for appointments to the the delivery of the Groups strategy on behalf oversight.
Executive Committee and monitors executive of our owners.
The Committees terms of  succession planning.
reference set out its main responsibilities, and fatalities at IOC in late 2014, QIT are available to view on the Groups website.
Madagascar Minerals, Zululand Anthracite The Committees terms of reference set out its Colliery, Sorel-Tracey and Guinea.
main responsibilities, and are available to view Governance processes on the website.
Considered the findings from the 2014 The Committee met seven times in 2015. evaluation of the Committees performance.
The Committee carries out its business Governance processes following an agreed annual cycle of meetings The Committee meets as required and in 2015, We draw to your attention the Sustainable and topics for consideration.
The members of the development report on pages 22 to 28 of this Committee are independent in accordance with report.
In 2016 the Committee will conduct its In addition to the matters noted on page 79, the independence policy adopted by the agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics for the Committee considered the findings from Nominations Committee.
consideration including the outcome of the the 2014 evaluation of the Committees 2015 evaluation of the Committee.
In 2016 the Committee will The Committee in its proceedings takes consider the outcome of the 2015 evaluation account of the Groups Inclusion and diversity Chairmans Committee report of the Committee.
policy, and progress in the inclusion and Members of the Committee are Jan du Plessis diversity arena, discussed further below.
As set out in the Committee chairmans chairman, Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch.
annual statement on pages 67 to 69, we In 2015, the Committee: Key responsibilities are committed to a continuing dialogue The Committee acts on behalf of the board Continued regular executive and with our owners.
between scheduled board meetings either in non-executive succession planning reviews.
accordance with authority delegated by the Considered the findings from the 2014 board or as specifically set out within its terms evaluation of the Committees performance.
It supports the functioning of the Reviewed the mix of skills and experience board and ensures that the business of the required for non-executive directors and board and its committees is properly planned briefed the search firm accordingly.
When Received and considered leadership mandated by the board, the Chairmans assessments and development reports on Committee will consider urgent matters senior management from Egon Zehnder, between board meetings.
Other than for the and discussed the same with them.
chairman of the board whose remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee, the In 2016, the Committee will continue its Committee performs the annual review of regular executive and non-executive non-executive directors fees and makes a succession planning reviews and consider recommendation to the board.
the outcome of the 2015 evaluation of the Committee.
Nominations Committee report Members of the Committee comprise Jan du Plessis chairman and all non-executive directors.
com 61 Corporate governance continued Board skills, experience and diversity and complementary skills and experience.
The board recognises that the evolution of the mix of skills and diversity gender and nationality is a More information about the boards process for the selection, long-term process and it weighs the various factors relevant to board appointment and election of directors is available in the Corporate balance and diversity when vacancies arise.
The key attributes relevant governance section of the Groups website.
for our board are set out below.
In leading a large global mining and metals company, the board aims to evolve its membership by seeking non-executive directors with diverse Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving large-scale capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Executive leadership Sustainable success in business at a senior executive level.
Financial Proficiency in financial accounting and reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, corporate funding, and the associated risks.
Global Experience in multiple global locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standard of governance, including experience with a major organisation that demonstrates rigorous governance standards.
Government relations geopolitical Interaction with government and regulators and involvement in public policy decisions.
Health, safety and environment Familiarity with issues associated with workplace health and safety, environment and social responsibility, and communities.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing, and development of product and or customer management strategies.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining organisation involved in the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Remuneration Understanding of the link between strategy, performance and remuneration outcomes.
Risk management Experience in developing an asset or business portfolio over the long term that remains resilient to systemic risk, and establishing risk management frameworks, setting risk appetite and overseeing organisational risk culture.
Strategy Proven ability in developing and implementing successful strategies, including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic objectives.
Technology A strong understanding of technology and innovation, and the development and implementation of initiatives to enhance production.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Inclusion and diversity discussions were on raise awareness about Rio Tinto and to Inclusion and diversity the agenda at Rio Tintos senior leader increase the attraction, development and Our commitment to inclusion and diversity conference, as part of engaging the entire retention of talented women wherever We are a global company and, wherever we leadership group on the topic.
operate and across every part of our business, The expansion of training programmes Inclusion and diversity progress focused on we strive to create an inclusive culture in which aimed at countering unconscious bias.
four key levers leadership, inclusion, difference is recognised and valued.
By bringing These have targeted senior leaders, hiring integration and business rationale.
together men and women from diverse managers and recruiters to help minimise Accountability for inclusion and diversity backgrounds and giving each person the the impact of bias in recruitment and was placed more clearly with the leaders of opportunity to contribute their skills, experience development practices, as well as to the product groups and functions.
Progress and perspectives, we believe that we are able to improve the cross-cultural interactions and was linked to incentive plans.
develop the best solutions to challenges and  needed to globalise our Inclusion was made a central part of the deliver value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
initiatives, to ensure that progress is The continuation of a three-year What inclusion and diversity mean sustainable over the long term and that the commitment by the chairman to mentoring for Rio Tinto organisation can make the most of the high-potential female board candidates Embracing workforce diversity age, diversity we have.
through the FTSE100 Cross-company gender, race, national or ethnic origin, Significant time was invested in integrating Mentoring Programme.
religion, language, political beliefs, sexual inclusion and diversity into the core orientation and physical ability.
Proportion of women employees and board practices and competencies of the business members Valuing diversity of perspective in order to ensure that we can deliver an leveraging the diverse thinking, skills, In 2015, the proportion of women on the board irreversible change.
experience and working styles of our was 25 per cent ie three out of 12, in senior Inclusion and diversity action groups have been employees and other stakeholders.
management 18.1 per cent and in the overall working within product groups and functions to workforce 18.5 per cent.
Building a flexible organisation providing assess issues and help leaders develop focused opportunities for work arrangements that Senior management includes the business plans.
accommodate the diverse needs of unit or functional unit leaders who are direct individuals at different career and life stages.
Active involvement with Women in Mining reports of Executive Committee members, and Respecting stakeholder diversity groups, professional womens associations those at general manager, Group adviser and chief adviser levels.
developing strong and sustainable and other targeted recruiting efforts to relationships with diverse shareholders, Measurable objectives and progress communities, employees, governments, The board established the following five-year measurable objectives for workforce diversity at the customers and suppliers.
start of 2011: How we support inclusion and diversity Measurable objective Progress during 2015 We use the following to drive action and build Women to represent 20 per cent of our Women represented 18.1 per cent of our senior awareness about inclusion and diversity: senior management by 2015. management in 2015.
Governance models Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 Women represented 43 per cent of our 2015 Policies, practices and targets graduate intake.
Leadership and cultural competence 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to 33.3 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake were Stakeholder relationships be nationals from regions where we are nationals from regions where we are developing Education and communication developing new businesses.
We prioritise long and short-term programmes based on need and impact.
Read a summary of We will continue to report against these implementation.
Management is required to our Inclusion and diversity policy in the objectives yearly going forward.
adhere to these policies and standards and any Corporate governance section of our website.
mandated procedures and to monitor their Subsidiary board diversity effectiveness.
Our current focus Women represented 10.1 per cent of the Rio Tinto policies and standards address a  directors of our principal controlled subsidiary variety of important topics which apply to all our representative of the countries and undertakings during 2015 14 female: managed businesses.
Where the Group does communities in which we operate.
not have operating responsibility for a business, our focus is to improve the representation of Other disclosures Rio Tintos policies and standards are women and of people from nationalities which communicated to our business partners.
We are under-represented in our workforce, and to Policies and standards make every effort to ensure that the standards continue to build an inclusive culture in which Rio Tintos commitment to integrity and we espouse are respected at all times and to all talent can thrive.
compliance is set out in The way we work, our encourage non-managed businesses to adopt global code of conduct, which is available on our Some of the activities and initiatives relating to similar policies and standards of their own.
It contains universal principles that diversity during the year are: guide our behaviour, and inspires us to commit Rio Tinto employees are required to undertake Sam Walsh took over as the executive to our company values of respect, integrity, training on the requirements of The way we champion for inclusion and diversity in teamwork and accountability.
It is supported by work and various policies and standards.
January 2015. a number of Group policies and standards.
Whistleblowing programme A Group-wide inclusion and diversity These are adopted after wide consultation and, Speak-OUT is the Groups confidential and steering committee was formed, chaired by once adopted, are communicated globally, to all independently operated whistleblowing the chief executive and including a number our business units, together with related programme.
It offers an avenue through which of senior executives.
procedures, guidelines and resources to employees, contractors, suppliers and support 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 63 Corporate governance continued customers of Rio Tinto managed sites can  During 2015, meetings with the investment report concerns, anonymously if they so executive, chief financial officer, Group community focused on the issues of strategy, choose, subject to local law.
This can include company secretary, Group executive Legal board succession, corporate governance, any significant concerns about the business, or & Regulatory Affairs, the head of Investor executive remuneration, and the operational the behaviour of individuals, including suspicion Relations and the head of External Affairs and financial performance of the Group.
of violations of financial reporting, safety or & Communications.
Regular investor seminars provide a two-way environmental procedures or business integrity communication opportunity with investors and Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure unless issues in general.
On 17 March 2015, a corporate an exemption applies allowing a delay to the telephone and web submissions, a case governance forum was hosted in London to relevant listing authorities in accordance with management tool to manage cases, and a provide investors with an opportunity to their rules of any information that a reasonable reporting tool to allow for improved analysis of engage with the chairman and the chairs of the person would expect to have a material effect case statistics and reporting.
Rio Tinto board committees, a similar seminar having on its share price.
All information released to continuously considers ways to promote been held in Sydney in November 2014. the markets is posted on the Media section of positive awareness of Speak-OUT.
The Audit Feedback from such engagement is routinely our website.
Committee receives a report twice annually on communicated to the board.
Surveys of major Speak-OUT activity, with the Sustainability In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tintos shareholders opinions are presented to the Committee receiving an annual report on website features information on corporate board by the Groups investor relations Speak-OUT relating to sustainable governance, and general investor information.
Annual and half year results, as well as any Risk management major presentations, are webcast and the Dealing in Rio Tinto securities A description of the principal risks and materials are available on our website.
Rio Tinto operates rules which restrict the uncertainties that could affect Rio Tinto and the Presentation material from investor seminars dealing in Rio Tinto securities by directors and Groups framework of risk governance and is also made available on our website.
employees with access to inside information.
reporting and the mitigation strategies relating The annual general meetings present an  to them may be found on pages 14 to 21.
On an opportunity to provide a summary business clearance before any proposed dealing and annual basis, the board conducts a robust presentation, to inform shareholders of recent  assessment of those principal risks, with the developments and to give them the can deal.
Generally, the These rules also prohibit persons discharging The Audit Committee has completed the chairs of all board committees will be available managerial responsibility from engaging in annual review of the Groups risk management to answer questions raised by shareholders hedging or other arrangements which limit the system for 2015 and concluded that the and all directors are expected to attend where economic risk in connection with Rio Tinto system remains effective.
In 2015 all of the directors attended securities issued, or otherwise allocated as the annual general meetings, save for Internal controls remuneration that are either unvested, or that Ann Godbehere who was unable to attend the  have vested, but remain subject to a holding Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting due system of internal controls and for reviewing period.
 to her attendance at the UBS AG annual annually the effectiveness of the internal broader group of employees requiring them to general meeting.
Rio Tintos external auditors, control system.
The Audit Committee supports seek clearance before engaging in similar PwC, attend the annual general meetings and the board in this regard.
This includes arrangements over any Rio Tinto securities.
are available to answer questions about the reviewing material financial, operational and conduct of the external audit and the Communication with stakeholders compliance controls.
The Audit Committee has preparation and content of the Independent Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective completed the annual review and assessment auditors report.
Any such questions received and timely communication with shareholders for 2015 and concluded that the system and answers provided ahead of the annual and the wider investment community.
general meetings are made available to To ensure that trading in its securities takes Two of the Groups management committees, shareholders, who also have the opportunity place in an informed marketplace, Rio Tinto the Executive Committee and the Disclosure to meet informally with directors after has adopted procedures to ensure Committee, regularly review reports related to the meetings.
Rio Tintos compliance with its continuous the Groups control framework in order to Rio Tinto provides shareholders with the option disclosure obligations.
satisfy the internal control requirements of the to receive communications from, and send Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards The Disclosure Committee is responsible for communications to, the Companies and the  determining whether information relating to .
The Group Audit & Assurance function Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets  performs reviews of the integrity and under the continuous disclosure requirements page 244 and on our website.
effectiveness of control activities and provides in the jurisdictions in which Rio Tinto is listed.
regular reports to the Audit Committee, The main channels of communication with the The specific focus of the Disclosure Committee Sustainability Committee and other investment community are through the is to consider and determine on a timely basis management committees.
chairman, chief executive and chief financial whether information would, to the extent that officer, who have regular meetings with the the information is not public and relates Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses Companies major shareholders.
The senior directly or indirectly to Rio Tinto, be likely to and functions complete a representation letter independent director has a specific have a material impact on the price of confirming that adequate internal controls are in responsibility to be available to shareholders Rio Tinto Securities if that information was place, are operating effectively and are designed who have concerns, and where contact with the generally available.
to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, chairman, chief executive or chief financial if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, officer has failed to resolve their concerns, or as appropriate.
for whom such contact is inappropriate.
In his capacity as Remuneration Committee chairman, the senior independent director meets shareholders to discuss remuneration issues.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following chart represents, at a high level, the Groups internal control framework.
Lines of Organisational Financial Compliance Operational risk defence structures and risk risk internal Resource Operations Services People HSEC and controls and projects security Oversight Board and its committees Third Internal audit Group Audit & Assurance Framework The way we work, operating model, delegation of authorities documents Chief executive Executive Committee Risk Management Committee Plan Review Ore Reserves Global Closure Disclosure Committee Steering Benefits Committee Committee Management Committee Committee committees Investment Committee Finance Technology Technology Organisational Organisational Organisational Legal & & Innovation & Innovation Resources Resources Resources Regulatory Affairs HQ and central support Speak-OUT Annual reporting suite certifications Executive Committee and managing directors Internal Managing Insurance Regulatory Subsidiary Control director & critical risk energy & entity boards over Competent assessments greenhouse Financial Person gas reporting Annual integrity Reporting Management reporting certificates Second Programme assurance, Regulatory reporting, Ore Reserves HSE reporting Mandatory Local monitoring and & Mineral compliance statutory certifications Resources HSEC training accounts reporting assurance Compliance reports and certification Group Resources & Asset Acceptable use Employment HSEC Governance Treasury reserves management of information & electronic Inclusion and HSE Risk Group Tax resources diversity management management system Project Procurement Human rights evaluation Closure Group policies Business and standards Security integrity Technical Data privacy safety eg process Antitrust safety and underground External communications First Line Product groups: Aluminium, Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals, Iron Ore management Group functions 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 65 Corporate governance continued Internal assurance Management conducts extensive review and with the participation of the chief executive and challenge in support of the boards obligations chief financial officer, has evaluated the Group Audit & Assurance in this regard, seeking to ensure balance effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group Audit & Assurance is an internal function between positive and negative statement and Groups disclosure controls and procedures which provides independent and objective good linkages throughout the Annual report.
pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness The directors were responsible for the the end of the period covered by this report and of the Groups systems for risk management, preparation and approval of the Annual report has concluded that these disclosure controls internal control and governance together with for the year ended 31 December 2015.
They  recommendations to improve the effectiveness consider the Annual report, taken as a whole, assurance level.
of the relevant systems and processes.
The to be fair, balanced and understandable, and function has an internal audit methodology Managements report on internal control over that it provides the information necessary for which is aligned with international auditing financial reporting shareholders to assess the Companys position standards set by the Institute of Internal Management is responsible for establishing and performance, business model and strategy.
and maintaining adequate internal control over The directors are responsible for maintaining financial reporting.
The Companies internal The function operates independently of proper accounting records, in accordance with control over financial reporting is a process management, under a mandate approved by UK and Australian legislation.
They have a designed under the supervision of the chief the Audit Committee, and has full access to all general responsibility for taking such steps as executive and chief financial officer to provide functions, records, property and personnel of are reasonably open to them to safeguard the reasonable assurance regarding the reliability the Group.
The head of Group Audit & assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect of financial reporting and the preparation and Assurance administratively reports to the chief fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are fair presentation of the Groups published executive and has direct communication lines also responsible for ensuring that appropriate financial statements for external reporting with the chairs of both the Audit Committee systems are in place to maintain and preserve purposes in accordance with International and Sustainability Committee and regularly the integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by attends their meetings.
in the UK governing the preparation and the European Union IFRS.
A risk-based approach is used to focus dissemination of financial statements may The Groups internal control over financial assurance activities on high-risk areas and differ from current and future legislation in reporting includes policies and procedures that audit plans are presented annually to the other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the pertain to the maintenance of records that, in Audit Committee and Sustainability Committee auditors does not involve consideration of such reasonable detail: for approval.
developments and, accordingly, the external auditors accept no responsibility for any accurately and fairly reflect transactions In support of its internal audit function, changes, should any be made, to the financial and dispositions of assets: Rio Tinto utilises the services of external statements after they are made available on provide reasonable assurances that service providers.
The function has a policy the Groups website.
transactions are recorded as necessary to which addresses conflicts of interest in relation permit preparation of financial statements to engagements of the service provider that are The directors, senior executives, senior in accordance with IFRS, and that receipts requested by management.
The policy financial managers and other members of staff and expenditures are being made only in complies with the IIAs standards on who are required to exercise judgment in the accordance with authorisations of independence.
Certain services are course of the preparation of the financial management and directors of each of the pre-approved under the policy as they are not statements are required to conduct themselves Companies: and in conflict with the internal auditors role.
There with integrity and honesty and in accordance provide reasonable assurance regarding is a list of prohibited services which may not be with the ethical standards of their profession prevention or timely detection of undertaken without approval of the head of and the business.
unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition Group Audit & Assurance, and guidance on the The directors consider that the 2015 Annual of the Groups assets that could have a consideration of services which may give rise to report presents a true and fair view and has material effect on its financial statements.
been prepared in accordance with applicable Due to inherent limitations, internal control Financial reporting accounting standards, using the most over financial reporting cannot provide Financial statements appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos absolute assurance, and may not prevent or The directors are required to prepare financial business, and supported by reasonable detect all misstatements whether caused by statements for each financial period which give a judgments and estimates.
The accounting error or fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto true and fair view of the state of affairs of the policies have been consistently applied.
The plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Group as at the end of the financial period, and  .
from the chief executive and the chief financial Management conducted an assessment of the This includes preparing financial statements in officer to this effect.
In accordance with the effectiveness of internal control over financial accordance with UK company law which give a internal control requirements of the Code and reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on true and fair view of the state of the Companys the ASX Principles Recommendation 4.2, this the Internal Control Integrated Framework affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report written statement confirms that the issued by the Committee of Sponsoring which includes the information required by declarations in the statement are founded on a Organizations of the Treadway Commission Regulation 11, Schedule 8 of the Large and sound system of risk management and internal COSO issued in 2013, and concluded that it Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts controls,  was effective.
and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and effectively in all material respects in relation to There were no changes in the internal controls the Australian Corporations Act 2001. financial reporting risks.
over financial reporting that occurred during In addition, the Code requires that the board Disclosure controls and procedures the period that have materially affected, or are provides a fair, balanced and understandable  reasonably likely to materially affect, the assessment of the Companys position and procedures as such term is defined in US internal controls over financial reporting of prospects in its external reporting.
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e. Management, each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
