Directors Report Committee reports DN ire om cto in rs at R ion ep s o & rt G C ov or er p n ora anc te e C gom ovem rn ia tt nc ee e NOMINATIONS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CONTINUED At a glance Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Succession The selection and appointment of a new Chief Executive The committee recommended the appointment of Warren East as planning and talent following John Rishtons decision to retire.
Chief Executive and the appointments of Irene Dorner, Alan Davies management and Sir Kevin Smith as Non-executive Directors during 2015.
Identifying the need for, and leading the process to select Pages58 to 61 set out their biographies.
and recruit, additional Non-executive Directors.
Changes to the ELT were agreed during 2015, resulting in the Succession planning below Board level, including the composition shown on page 61. composition of the current ELT.
Committee Committee refreshment arising from the retirement The Board committees were restructured, and care was taken membership ofone Non-executive Director and from the appointment during the recruitment process to ensure the skills and experience of WarrenEast as Chief Executive.
of the new Non-executive Directors were closely matched to the needs ofthe committees.
The revised committee membership is shown on pages 58 to 61 and on page 65.
Governance The implementation of the revised governance Approval of the new framework, including new delegated framework framework and the extension of the framework below authorities, and a process for rolling out the framework across Board level.
Security clearance Management of sensitive information to ensure good The committee established a sub-committee of Non-executive oversight and control.
Directors who have received appropriate clearance to enable them toreview highly sensitive and secure data.
The committee agreed appropriate levels of engagement with the board of Rolls-Royce North America following the departure of JamesGuyette.
Shareholder Liaison with ValueAct, a major shareholder, and A constructive dialogue was established with ValueAct and engagement consideration of its request for a seat on the Board.
thecommittee initiated a nomination process to consider the proposedcandidacy.
Conflicts of interest Directors are required to declare any potential or actual The committee considered the schedule of Directors conflicts conflicts of interest that could interfere with their ability ofinterests and recommended that the schedule be approved toact in the best interests of the Group.
Reviewed its own Evaluation of how well the members and the committee The committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference.
terms of reference operated during the year.
InNovember 2015, it reviewed whether it had undertaken all the work required under its terms of reference and concluded that ithaddone so.
Principal risk Board composition A principal risk to the business is the inability to attract, retain and The committee reviews the balance and composition of the Board, incentivise sufficiently talented individuals to deliver our strategy.
itscommittees and the senior executive team on a regular basis.
The committee is responsible for reviewing talent and capability Thisreview is not just to identify current needs, but also to consider management and it held two sessions during 2015 which looked longer term succession planning.
To this end a sub-committee of the atthe processes to develop and maintain talent.
These discussions Nominations & Governance Committee was formed in February 2015 focused around the need to reconfigure the ELT and resulted tolook specifically at contingency planning for senior positions.
initsnew composition to deliver business transformation, Thissub-committee reported back to the committee in February 2015 asshown on page 61. andin April 2015, when the committee considered theappointment ofanew Chief Executive.
70 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Committee reports Nominations & Governance Committee At the start of the year, the committee discussed James Guyettes 2015 and joined the Audit and Nominations & Governance wish to retire and recommended to the Board that he step down at Committees.
Alan is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants the end ofthe 2015 Annual General Meeting.
As part of the Board in Australia.
As well as his strong financial background which includes evaluation carried out in 2014, the current Board mix was discussed serving as CFO of Rio Tintos iron ore division, Alan brings with him a and it had been agreed that, subsequent to James leaving the Board, wealth of leadership experience, including transforming operational his role as CEO & President of Rolls-Royce North America would performance and driving cultural change through a complex global nolonger be a Board position, although his successor would still organisation.
He has deep knowledge of China and key emerging bea member of the Executive Leadership Team.
Alans appointment also adds further expertise in safety andoperations to the Rolls-Royce Board.
In early 2014, the committee had carried out work with Korn Ferry on succession planning.
Korn Ferry provides services of this nature, Dame Helen Alexander will be stepping down from the Board after the including the recruitment of senior executives, for the Group but AGM in May 2016, having served on the Board for nine years.
At that does not have any other relationship with the Group.
When, in 2015, time, she will be succeeded as Chairman of the Remuneration John Rishton indicated his desire to retire as Chief Executive, Committee by Ruth Cairnie.
Being mindful of the need for progressive KornFerrys work was revisited by a sub-committee of the refreshing of the Board and committees, the committee recommended Nominations & Governance Committee.
This sub-committee to the Board the appointment of a further Non-executive Director comprised the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and three in2015 to ensure that there was scope for an orderly hand over.
Specific criteria for Sir Kevin Smith was appointed on 1 November 2015 as a therole were drawn up and approved by the full committee and a Non-executive Director, joining the Remuneration, Nominations & comprehensive international search was undertaken with assistance Governance and Science & Technology committees.
Sir Kevin was a from Korn Ferry.
This search identified asmall number ofsuitable full-time partner atUnitas Capital, a leading Asian private equity candidates, each of whom was assessed against the objective firm, having served for nine years as CEO of GKN plc, the global criteria.
The members of the Nominations & Governance Committee engineering and manufacturing company.
Before then, Sir Kevin met each of the candidates on the shortlist and, as a result of this spent nearly 20 years with British Aerospace BAE plc.
In February process and following formal meetings with the remaining Board 2016, Sir Kevin was appointed as chairman of the Science & members, Warren East was confirmed as the preferred candidate.
Kevins knowledge of Asia and ofcomplex Warren has been a Non-executive Director of Rolls-Royce since technological and engineering companies is extremely relevant to January 2014 and he was CEO of ARM Holdings from 2001 to 2013.
Rolls-Royce and we look forward to his contribution.
On becoming Chief Executive of Rolls-Royce on 3July 2015, Warren In February 2016, Lewis Booth indicated his intention to relinquish his stepped down from the Audit, Nominations & Governance and responsibility as Senior Independent Director once a successor has been Science & Technology Committees.
Lewis will continue as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman led the evaluation of Warrens performance as Details of the Non-executive Directors experience are on pages 58 to 61.
ChiefExecutive, including obtaining the individual views of the other Directors and certain members of the ELT, before a discussion at the MWM Consulting was engaged as the search consultant for the committees meeting in December 2015.
It was recognised that in his newNon-executive Directors.
The committee set out the particular first fewmonths in the role Warren had made a strong start.
He skills required in its brief, and this resulted in the appointment of veryquickly identified the need for improvements in operational Irene, Alan and Sir Kevin.
MWM does not provide any other services to, performance and cost reduction, set the priorities and communicated and is not otherwise connected with, theCompany.
these effectively both internally and with investors, and is reshaping the Each of the Directors continues to be effective and able to devote leadership team to support the transformation agenda.
sufficient time to the business of the Company and the Board The committee started the process for recruiting additional Nonwillcontinue to keep its composition under review.
executive Directors during 2014 by considering the areas of expertise that should be added to the Board.
An external search consultant was Succession planning and diversity appointed and a wide range of high calibre independent candidates was considered and a number of interviews were carried out.
The Board fully recognises and embraces the benefits of diversity throughout the Group as it brings a broader and more rounded As a result of this process, Irene Dorner joined the Board as a perspective to decision making.
Increasing diversity influences our Non-executive Director in July 2015 and joined the Audit Committee, approach to succession planning and training and development.
the Safety & Ethics Committee and the Nominations & Governance Thepercentage of women on the Board has increased to 29% Committee.
Irene has considerable international and risk 2014:21%.
managementexperience and is a powerful advocate for diversity andinclusion in theworkplace.
We believe a wide range of people and experiences is beneficial toachieving a high performance culture and enables innovation The committee considered that strengthening the level of financial helping us to deliver excellence.
Rolls-Royce is a founder patron andtechnical accounting knowledge on the Board would be beneficial ofthe FTSE100 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme which aims and, again following the process outlined above, Alan Davies joined to widen the pool of eligible female board candidates.
theBoard as Non-executive Director with effect from 1 November Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 71 Directors Report Committee reports D DN i ir re e om c ct to or in rs s at R R ion e ep p s o or & rt t G C ov or er p n ora anc te e C gom ovem rn ia tt nc ee e NOMINATIONS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CONTINUED We will continue to consider candidates for future Board appointments Warren East received a comprehensive induction when he was from the widest possible pool and will only engage executive search appointed as Chief Executive.
Before he took over as Chief Executive, firms that have signed up to the Voluntary Code ofConduct for Executive Warren met with a number of key customers, suppliers and partners.
Search Firms in relation to gender diversity on corporate boards.
Healso spent several weeks visiting Rolls-Royce sites and meeting the senior personnel as well as Board members.
In gaining an understanding We acknowledge the challenges of increasing diversity within our of the business challenges, he listened to feedback from most areas industry, and during 2015 we have introduced a refreshed global ofthe business.
Since joining, Warren has conducted town hall meetings diversity and inclusion policy and a revised anti-discrimination policy.
at sites he has visited and introduced a blog on the Groups intranet These policies aim to ensure that all employees are treated with respect which has been well received as it opens up a constructive dialogue and are empowered to deliver without fear of bullying or harassment.
withemployees on the issues that affect the businesses.
We recognise that succession planning includes nurturing our In 2015, the training programme was improved to ensure that all owntalent pool and giving opportunities to those who are Directors had the opportunity to visit our operations.
We regard capable ofgrowing into more senior roles.
We give full and fair visits by Board members to our operating sites as an important part consideration to all employment applications from people with of continuing education as well as an essential part of the induction disabilities, and support disabled employees, helping them to make process.
They help Directors understand the business through direct the best use of their skills and potential.
We have continued to roll experience of operating processes with employees at different out High Performance Culture training across the globe to help levels.
This also gives the Non-executive Directors the chance to employees increase their personal effectiveness.
spend time with their fellow Directors in a less formal setting, We have established several Employee Resource Groups ERGs to which helps them to understand the concerns of their colleagues.
support our diversity and inclusion strategy.
These include Womens In 2015, Irene Dorner and Sir Kevin Smith visited operational sites ERGs in Germany, USand the UK, a Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and inDerby, UK and Irene visited production sites in the US Indianapolis Transgender ERG and an African Caribbean ERG, both in the UK.
and Crosspointe : Ian Davis spent time with the supply chain team The committee held two focused sessions during the year inDerby, UK and visited customers and suppliers in Japan, Singapore, toconsider succession planning at a senior level including the Dubai and Washington, DC.
Ruth Cairnie visited Friedrichshafen, re-organisation ofthe ELT announced in December 2015.
Germany and Singapore, and Dame Helen Alexander visited our operations inAlesund, Norway.
The members of the Audit Committee visited the Companys ITsecurity operations centre to better Board induction and development understand the Groups preventative and reactive cyber security The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that new measures.
Metrics to support cyber security assurance have since Directors have a thorough and appropriate induction.
Each of the been developed and are periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee.
newly appointed Non-executive Directors has participated in a Further training is available for all Directors, as appropriate, structured induction programme and received a comprehensive including presentations by the executive team on particular aspects data pack providing detailed information on the Group.
For example, all Non-executive Directors undertook Eachinduction has been based on the individual Directors the Groups ethics training programme during the year.
requirements and included meetings with relevant employees, committee members and external advisers to ensure that each newDirector understands the Groups governance structure.
Board members by gender Senior managers by gender Employee headcount by gender Female 4 29% Female 14 7% Female 7,700 15% Male 10 71% Male 177 93% Male 42,800 85% 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 72 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Committee reports Nominations & Governance Committee There is a procedure for Directors to take independent professional We reviewed Board committee membership during the year, following advice at the Companys expense and every Director has Warren Easts appointment as Chief Executive, JohnNeills departure independent access to the Company Secretary.
from the Board and the appointments ofIrene Dorner, AlanDavies and Sir Kevin Smith.
The committee took care to ensure that the skills and experience of the new Board members were closely aligned with the Governance needs of the Board committees.
Committee membership is set out onpages 58 to 61 and on page 65.
The Nominations & Governance The committee has taken on responsibility for corporate governance.
Committee is satisfied with the composition of the committees and Early in the year, we adopted the Companys Board governance document confident that they are appropriately resourced to carry out their work.
which sets out the roles and responsibilities of the Board members, the matters reserved to the Board and the terms of reference of the Board The committee also reviewed and recommended to the Board that committees.
This was revised for best practice in December 2015.
Jasmin Staiblin, who has served on the Board for three years, be We also oversaw the development of the Companys internal governance reappointed for a further three-year term, subject to shareholder framework, which documents how the Group is run, and recommended support at the AGM.
its adoption by the Board.
It sets out the mandatory policies, processes As part of its consideration of Board governance, the committee and procedures that must be observed by all employees, clarifies the way discussed the implications of ValueAct increasing its shareholding in which we take decisions, and sets out our system of internal controls, in the Company and encouraged engagement with ValueAct risk management and assurance.
Greater clarification around these tobetter understand its views.
issues is important in strengthening our governance and ensuring that all employees know what is expected of them.
Conflicts of interest and independence We reviewed an updated schedule of delegated authorities and recommended it to the Board for adoption.
The revised authority The Nominations & Governance Committee reviews the Non-executive levels are better aligned with business needs, helping the Group to Directors external interests every year to determine whether each eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy whilst still providing sufficient Non-executive Director continues to be independent.
In undertaking control to manage the business responsibly at appropriate levels.
this evaluation, the committee considers among other things the criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The committee reviewed the process through which sensitive information is handled and recommended the formation of It also reviews any potential conflicts of interest as they arise and asub-committee, comprising only Directors who have received recommends to the Board whether these should be authorised and security clearance, to ensure proper oversight and control of classified whether any conditions should be attached to any such authorisation.
This sub-committee will meet whenever necessary.
Additionally, an annual review of conflicts of interest is undertaken toensure that any previously authorised conflicting situations are During 2015, an executive-level Disclosure Committee was still being dealt with appropriately.
established to review all significant market announcements and tooversee the process for handling any price-sensitive information.
Having carried out a rigorous review, the committee advised the Atits first meeting in October 2015, the committee members agreed Board that it considered that each of the Non-executive Directors, its terms of reference, and received a refresher training session on with the exception of the Chairman for whom the test is not inside information from the Companys external legal counsel.
The appropriate, continued to be independent and recommended committee met in November 2015 to consider the operating review totheBoard that each of the Directors potential conflicts of interest update and interim management statement before their release to be authorised, without attaching any conditions.
the market, and again in February 2016 to review at executive level this Annual Report including as to whether it is fair, balanced and Looking forward understandable and our draft preliminary results announcement.
A key challenge has been to improve the quality and timeliness Good progress has been made on governance during the year.
ofinformation going to the Board and its committees.
The Company For2016, the key focus for the committee will be the development has worked to develop better information systems, creating a more of succession plans to ensure that the transformation of the consistent and thoughtful approach topresenting technical materials.
business is adequately supported below Board level and This has included the creation of templates and the introduction of a underpinned by the internal governance framework.
new board portal for easier and more timely access to key information.
Ian Davis As recommended in the 2014 Board evaluation, we have encouraged Chairman of the Nominations & Governance Committee more frequent conversations between senior management and theDirectors, resulting in greater and more constructive challenge, although the latest Board evaluation indicated that we can do more inthis area, see page 66.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 73 Directors Report Committee reports Remuneration Committee REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Highlights No salary increases in 2016 No annual bonus payout for 2015 Amended 2016 Performance Share Plan PSP awards, including reduction in value New operational measures for annual bonus 2015 overview Introduction Principal responsibilities Committee members and attendance The key areas of responsibility of the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased The committee membership and attendance committee are: tointroduce our 2015 Directors throughout 2015 is shown onpage 65.
Remuneration Report, for which we seek Inaddition to the committee members, the t o set and monitor the strategy and policy your support at our forthcoming AGM, Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer forthe remuneration of the Executive inMay 2016.
This report is designed and any of the Non-executive Directors may Directors, the Chairman and members todemonstrate the link between the attend one ormore meetings at the ofthe ELT: Groups strategy, its performance, committees invitation, although none was t o determine the design, conditions andtheremuneration outcomes for present during any discussions of his or her andcoverage of annual and long-term ourexecutives, in particular the own remuneration package.
The committee incentive plans for senior executives and ExecutiveDirectors.
2015 has been a issupported by the Company Secretary, approve total and individual payments challenging year for the Group and this is theSenior Reward Consultant, the Group under the plans: reflected in the performance outcomes Human Resources Director, and the Global for Executive Directors under the annual Performance, Reward & Pensions Director.
t o determine targets for any bonus and Performance Share Plan PSP.
The committee is advised by Deloitte LLP, performance-related pay plans: anindependent reward adviser.
At the beginning of 2016, we consulted t o determine the issue and terms with shareholders on proposed changes ofallshare-based plans available tothe 2016 annual bonus and PSP.
These toallemployees: and changes are within the terms of the t o oversee any major changes in approved policy, but we nevertheless remuneration.
considered it important toreceive input from shareholders to maintain an open dialogue on remuneration and inform our judgement.
The changes were driven by our desire to ensure we properly motivate our Executive Directors to deliver the transformation of the business, whilst balancing the interests ofshareholders and other stakeholders.
Following Warren Easts appointment asChief Executive and the changes he is introducing to the business, we will be reviewing our Group-wide remuneration policies in the second half of 2016.
74 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
