ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Statement from the Chairman I am pleased to set out our Corporate Governance Report on pages 62 to 68.
The aim of this report is to provide a clear and comprehensive explanation of Rotorks governance framework and how it is applied day to day.
Whilst ensuring we provide detailed reporting in our Corporate Governance Report, we have sought to place emphasis on explaining how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code are applied across our Group.
As Peter France describes in his Chief Executives Statement on pages 12 to 14, 2015 presented challenges for Rotork as a result of difficult trading conditions across most of Rotorks key markets and geographies.
I believe strong corporate governance has a key role to play in protecting our business and its long term success, especially in challenging conditions.
It is clear from the conversations I have had with a range of key shareholders since becoming Chairman, that the strength of the Board and its approach to corporate governance remains a highly valued component of Rotorks overall investment proposition.
There has been a natural focus by the Board on broader strategic issues throughout the year these strategies encompass both short term measures designed to manage the current downturn in the Groups markets such as the acceleration of planned cost saving measures, but also Martin Lamb longer term strategies to effectively position the Group in Chairman changing markets.
Our consideration of strategy has been aided by the significant work undertaken by the Board on both risk assessment and risk appetite during the course of the year, ensuring that not only do we, as a Board, accurately identify and quantify the risks faced by the Group, but that the Boards appetite for risk informs decision making throughout the Group, so we can prudently take advantage of the opportunities that those changing markets will inevitably present.
This work is explained in more detail below.
Rotork is subject to the Code, which was revised in 2014.
The revised version of the Code applied to this financial year, and I am happy to report that throughout 2015 Rotork has complied with the revised Code, save in two respects.
First, the annual performance review of the Board is scheduled to take place during February and March 2016, shortly after the end of the financial year covered by this report.
I felt it was important for me to have sufficient time to deepen my understanding of the dynamics and operation of the Board and its individual members before formulating, in conjunction with an external facilitator, an expanded review process from that adopted in recent years.
Second, in line with the revised Code, we have taken further steps during the year to facilitate improved ongoing oversight by the Board of the Groups risk management and internal control processes.
The new reporting structures have been designed and were implemented during the fourth quarter of the year under review.
Accordingly, the Board believes that the Company was in compliance with this element of the Code during the fourth quarter of 2015.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 63 A number of initiatives to further strengthen the governance and internal controls within Rotork were undertaken during the course of the year.
First, the Audit Committee undertook a detailed review of the Groups internal audit function, supported by an independent quality assessment by PwC.
This review resulted in the identification of the need for a new Head of Risk and Internal Audit, who has been recruited and will start in April 2016.
Further information on this review is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 69 to 72.
Second, as noted above, significant focus was placed on risk management by the Board.
This comprised two principal elements: the adoption of a Risk Appetite Framework and improved risk reporting procedures: and a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
The centrepiece of the Boards work on risk was a risk workshop following both the March and April Board meetings, which was externally facilitated by Deloitte, with additional sessions throughout the year during which the outcomes from the initial workshop were analysed and refined.
The principal output of the risk workshop was the Risk Appetite Framework, which is discussed in more detail below.
This framework was developed by the full Board working together as a group, and I am grateful to them for their full engagement in the process: I believe this has led to a qualitatively better assessment and understanding of the risks facing our business, and improved procedures to ensure that a prudent analysis of risk is incorporated into our decision making processes.
Further information on the risk review process is set out on pages 44 to 45, and a description of the principal risks facing the Group, and how the Board seeks to mitigate these risks, is set out on pages 46 to 47.
Finally, the Audit Committee has led the Boards work on the new longer term viability statement introduced by the revised Code, which looks at the prospects for the Group over the next three years.
The statement is set out on page 47.
A summary of the business the Board considered during 2015 is set out page 64.
However, I firmly believe that corporate governance does not stop at the boardroom door.
It is important that the strong governance principles demonstrated by the Board are carried on throughout the Group at every level and in every location.
As we continue to grow through acquisition, it becomes increasingly important to ensure that the culture of sound governance is applied worldwide in a consistent and unified way to ensure Rotorks unique culture is retained and developed.
s r e e d l c o n a h n e r k e s a v t t r o s a G t B d e u n g s y a i n a e n s d s a r c e q v u i i e s i w t, i o n s e l p ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Dates of Board meetings Jan 15 Feb 15 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sept 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Board activity 2015 Financial performance People Governance and stakeholders Received regular financial Approval of MJ Lamb as Chairman, Series of meetings undertaken performance updates from the following the Nomination between the Chairman and Group Finance Director.
key shareholders to discuss Approval of 2016 budget.
Consideration of Lord Davies Fourth governance issues.
Consideration of 2014 financial Annual Review and Five Year Approval of 2014 Annual Report statements.
Approval of 2014 final dividend recommendations for 2020 targets.
Approval of Interim Report and recommendation and 2015 interim Received regular briefings on trading updates.
potential acquisition targets from Implemented changes to the Groups the Chief Executive.
governance structure to reflect changes to the Code, including focus on risk analysis and ongoing viability.
Regular review of feedback from institutional shareholders.
o Business review, strategy and acquisitions Internal controls, audit and risk management Received regular performance and business Implemented new quarterly Executive updates from the Chief Executive.
Risk Report programme with effect from Set the Groups strategy and vision, with an fourth quarter.
emphasis on addressing the challenges Attendance at an externally facilitated Board facing the Group as a result of adverse risk workshop and further follow-up sessions.
changes in its markets during the year.
Undertook assessment of principal risks and Received presentations from divisional and established Group risk appetite.
Group business function managers within Approval of insurances for the Group, the Group to consolidate understanding including levels of cover.
and awareness of activities and Discussion of Audit Committee analysis performance within the relevant divisions of internal audit processes.
Consideration and approval of all acquisitions completed during the year.
Received regular briefings on potential acquisition targets from the Chief Executive.
e P I n t a e n r d n r a i l s k c o m n a t n r a o g l s e, m a e e u n c d t l n i a t i a c m n r a o n i f F r e P Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 65 UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement Ongoing monitoring of risk management and The following section on pages 65 to 68 is a summary of internal controls the system of corporate governance adopted by Rotork.
Provision C. 2.3 of the revised Code states that the Board Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015, Rotork fully should monitor the Groups risk management and internal complied with the Code, save in two respects, which are set controls.
This represents a shift in emphasis to ongoing out below.
oversight by the Board as a whole.
Existing oversight has been improved by new reporting structures, including a Formal Board evaluation new quarterly Executive Risk Summary, which have been The formal performance evaluation of the Board in implemented with effect from the fourth quarter of 2015. accordance with Code Provision B.
6 is scheduled to take Further information on the new reporting structures is set place in February and March 2016, falling outside the out below.
The review was delayed until after the end of the financial year to enable the Chairman to The Code is available to download at www.
have sufficient time, following his appointment in April 2015, to formulate a clear understanding of the dynamics of the The Board of Directors operation of the Board under his Chairmanship, together The Board has a duty to promote the long term success of with his own assessment of the strengths and weaknesses Rotork for its shareholders: accomplished by entrepreneurial of individual Board members.
These insights were used to leadership, within a framework of prudent and effective develop an improved performance review.
Its role therefore includes approval of strategy, risk reviews, finance matters, and internal control and risk Length of tenure of independent non-executive Directors management, including major contract approvals.
as at 31 December 2015 The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are available for inspection during business hours at the 0 3 years registered office of Rotork plc and at the AGM.
3 6 years 1 6 9 years Board composition Rotork is led by an effective Board which consists of eight members: the Chairman, four independent non-executive 2 Directors and three executive Directors.
Apart from the Chairman, all non-executive Directors are considered to be 1 independent from Rotork and are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Upon the completion of this term, the appointment is reviewed and, if appropriate, extended.
Rotork is compliant with the recommendations of Balance of independent non-executive Directors Lord Davies Women on Boards initiative, with female and executive Directors as at 31 December 2015 representation on the Board standing at 25% as at 31 December 2015.
Non-executive Chairman The biographies of the Directors and details of Board 1 committee membership are set out on pages 60 to 61.
Independent Non-executive 3 All Directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM in Directors line with the Code.
Executive Directors Directors attendance at Board and Committee 4 meetings during 2015 No.
of meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee i i i Balance between male and female Directors on the Board RH Arnold 13 3 1 1 as at 31 December 2015 LM Bell 13 5 5 3 GB Bullard 12 5 4 2 i i i JM Davis 13 6 1 1 Male i i PI France 13 6 5 3 Female 2 SA James 13 6 5 3 MJ Lamb 12 6 4 1 ii i i RC Lockwood 5 2 2 2 JE Nicholas 13 6 5 3 iii i i GM Ogden 3 n a 1 1 6 i By invitation.
ii RC Lockwood retired from the Board on 24 April 2015. iii GM Ogden retired from the Board on 31 March 2015.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Roles and responsibilities The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, ensures There is a documented clear division of responsibilities that the Board agenda and all relevant information is between the Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure circulated to the Directors sufficiently in advance of the that there is a balance of power and authority between meeting.
During 2015, the Company transitioned to a new, leadership of the Board and executive leadership.
The secure, web-based platform for the hosting of Board division of responsibilities was reviewed and updated information, including Board packs, relevant documentation during 2015 following MJ Lambs appointment as Chairman.
and minutes of previous meetings of the Board and its Committees.
This has greatly improved the availability of All Directors are entitled to seek independent, professional information for the Directors, and the platform also advice at the Companys expense in order to discharge their facilitates rapid communication between all members of the responsibilities as Directors.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary discuss directors and officers insurance cover.
the agenda in detail ahead of every meeting and the Chairman and Chief Executive hold a review meeting ahead How the Board operates effectively of each Board meeting.
Board Activities As part of Rotorks Board effectiveness, day-to-day At least once annually, the Board travels to and meets at responsibility for the running of the Company is delegated one of Rotorks locations, other than its head office in to executive management.
However, there are a number of Bath.
This allows the Board, and in particular the nonmatters where, because of their importance in the context executive Directors, the opportunity to gain a deeper of the Groups operations, it is not considered appropriate understanding of overseas businesses and their markets to do this.
The Board therefore has a formal and and to interact with local management and staff, as well as documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
to view new capital investments and acquisitions.
In 2015, The schedule of reserved matters can be found on the the Board visited Rotorks manufacturing facility in Companys website at www.
Shanghai, China and met with and received presentations from local management.
In 2015, the Board met 10 times at scheduled meetings and three times at additional meetings.
Location of Board meetings 2015 Shanghai, China 2014 Winston-Salem, USA 2014 Leeds, UK 2013 Lucca, Italy 2012 Chennai, India 2011 Houston, USA All Directors constructively challenge executive At each Board meeting, the Board receives presentations management at Board meetings and are entitled to from senior management regarding that senior managers unfettered access to information and management across area of responsibility.
The principal purpose of the the Group.
Rotorks executive directors understand the presentations is to consolidate the Boards understanding distinction between their roles as executive managers and of the Groups operations, and in particular current strategic as Board directors.
Rotork Board members come from a and operational issues facing divisional management.
The variety of professional backgrounds including engineering, presentations are structured such that the Board has the legal, accountancy and international sales, and collectively opportunity to ask questions and constructively challenge possess significant managerial experience, as well as senior management following their presentations.
experience of being company directors of other public Management presentations normally take place limited companies.
immediately before the meeting so that any issues raised in them can be considered in wider Board discussions, particularly around strategy and risk.
In 2015, the Board received presentations from management of all four business divisions, together with the management from Group business functions, including sales and IT.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 67 The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director present to Internal controls and risk management the Board the content of full and half year results The Board has placed considerable focus on risk announcements, together with all trading updates issued management and mitigation during the year, partly in by the Company, and the Board is invited to comment on response to the current market conditions and partly and approve those announcements.
as a result of the changes to the Code and associated new guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Induction and development FRC in relation to risk management, internal control and New Board members receive a suitable and tailored related reporting.
This is facilitated by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman.
No new Director Details of the principal risks faced by the Group during the appointments were made in 2015.
However, additional year and details of the processes to manage these risks, induction activities were undertaken by MJ Lamb as a result including the Boards approach to the principal risks the of his appointment as Chairman in April 2015.
This included Group is willing to take in achieving its specific objectives a number of site visits to Rotork facilities in both the UK and its risk appetite, can be found on pages 44 to 47. overseas, together with meetings with investors.
The Board is responsible for Rotorks system of internal Directors are encouraged to continually update their control and risk management, and meets at least annually professional skills and knowledge.
During 2015, to review the effectiveness of it.
This risk management development activities for the Directors included process has been improved throughout the year as participation in external training seminars.
The Chairman is responsible for reviewing the level and Adoption of Risk Appetite Framework and improved nature of training given to the Directors at least annually.
monitoring of risk management and internal controls The Group has adopted a risk review process at a divisional Performance evaluations level for many years, resulting in a 'bottom up' assessment During February 2016, the Board commenced a detailed and consolidation of the risks facing the Group.
This review of its performance.
As noted in the statement from process fed into a biannual review and assessment by the the Chairman on page 62, the annual performance review Board of the principal risks facing the Group.
This existing was delayed until after the end of the financial year to allow risk management structure has been revised during the MJ Lamb additional time to assess the performance and course of the year, aided by external consultancy provided operation of the Board in his role as Chairman.
The key outputs of this process were: previous years, the review process was externally facilitated the adoption of a new Risk Appetite Framework RAF, by Vivienne Cassley of Useful Thinking, an independent designed to: external consultancy.
This year, the written questionnaire Enhance the incorporation of risk into strategic which formed the basis of previous performance reviews decision making at Board and divisional was augmented by a series of one-on-one interviews management levels: between Vivienne Cassley and the Directors, held during Improve quantitative and qualitative insight into February 2016, during which the performance of the Board principal risks and associated trends: and each of its members was critically examined.
Enable the Board to lead by example in creating a risk-aware culture and ensure consistency in decision The Chairman is due to formally report on the outcome of making: and the evaluation process at the March Board meeting, with Facilitate proactive risk mitigation.
individual feedback meetings with Directors being held in the implementation of new quarterly Executive Risk March ahead of that meeting.
Summary, in order to ensure continuous oversight by the Groups risk management and internal controls, with JE Nicholas is the current Senior Independent Director.
quarterly reporting being supplemented as necessary by As part of his role, he annually arranges a meeting of the monthly reporting to the Board by the executive non-executive Directors to appraise the Chairmans management team on new or evolving risks.
This feedback is used by him to discuss with the Chairman his performance.
In addition to the new reporting framework described above, all members of the Board receive full Audit Diversity on the Board Committee papers and prior meeting minutes, which Rotork currently has 25% female representation on the contain the Audit Committees assessment of the Board, in line with the recommendations of Lord Davies effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal 'Women on Boards' initiative.
The Board is cognisant of control systems.
All non-executive Directors attend Audit the 'next step recommendations' set out in Lord Davies Committee meetings.
Additionally, the Audit Committee five year summary report published in October 2015 and, Chairman briefs the Board on the main business of the as part of the Groups continuing commitment to fostering previous Audit Committee meeting, as well as making diversity in its business described in more detail in the recommendations from the Audit Committee to the Board.
report of the Nomination Committee on page 73, will Board members therefore receive information and updates continue to pursue initiatives designed to increase diversity on the work of the Audit Committee in reviewing the at all levels within the Group.
effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems throughout the year.
In the course of its activities during the year, the internal audit team identifies improvement recommendations at all locations visited.
These are discussed with local management at the end of the audit and they are charged with implementing the agreed improvements.
The issues ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED identified during the year did not have a material impact on During the year MJ Lamb had a series of individual the financial statements but the Board continues to look for meetings with current and potential principal shareholders ways to strengthen the Groups control environment.
in his new capacity as Chairman.
Full written reports on these meetings were provided to the Board.
This includes the recruitment of a new Head of Risk and Internal Audit and the appointment of regional finance Rotork makes constructive use of its AGM as an opportunity managers in more regions.
These regional finance for the Board to communicate with, and answer questions managers have a focus on internal controls, as well as from, those shareholders who attend in person.
The entire operational performance, and will provide an increased Board is normally available during the meeting and for level of review and contact for the finance teams operating lunch following the meeting to allow direct interaction within the sales subsidiaries.
between the Directors and the shareholders.
Main features of the Groups risk management and Rotork also maintains a comprehensive investor relations internal control systems section on its website which provides a variety of resources Risk management and internal control can only provide for investors including current webcasts, presentations reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material and press releases.
The website can be accessed at misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage the risks www.
rather than remove them altogether.
Electronic communications are also used by Rotork to The systems cover controls which enable Rotork to respond communicate with its shareholders.
All shareholders have appropriately to financial, operational, compliance and any been asked whether they would like to receive the Annual other risks.
Key elements include: Report and Accounts in electronic form rather than in hard Robust assurance processes and controls over financial copy form.
Any shareholders wishing to receive corporate reporting procedures: documents electronically can do this by registering for the A formal schedule of reserved matters for the Board service at www.
co. uk and clicking on Register including responsibility for reviewing Group strategy: under the Portfolio section.
Rotork also make available Clearly defined levels of authority and a division of electronic proxy appointment for shareholders who wish to responsibilities throughout the Group: appoint a proxy online to vote at the Companys AGM.
Formal documentation procedures: A formal whistleblowing policy with an external Board Committees whistleblowing hotline: and The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration An internal audit function made up of accountants from Committees.
Each Committee has formal, written head office and across subsidiaries, supported by training Terms of Reference which are available to download from in internal audit, best practice and control procedures to the Rotork website at www.
com en investors index monitor and identify weaknesses in internal controls.
All Board Committees have four independent non-executive Directors within their composition.
The The systems have been augmented throughout the year by Group Company Secretary advises and acts as secretary to the improved processes described above in order to comply the Committees.
with the revised Code and the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and The Committees have authority to take external, Business Reporting.
The Board considers that it was in independent professional advice at Rotorks expense for compliance with the revised Code and the Guidance with matters relating to the discharge of their duties.
effect from the fourth quarter of 2015.
Composition of Board and Committees showing Chairmen Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders is a priority for Rotork and the Company maintains a regular dialogue with its PLC Board major shareholders.
In 2015 the Board, and in particular the MJ Lamb Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, have engaged with shareholders in a number of ways including: Hosting conference calls: Hosting webcasts: Attending shareholder events, including a Capital Markets Day held in November in Leeds: Audit Nomination Remuneration Hosting investor site visits: Committee Committee Committee Attending conferences: GB Bullard SA James MJ Lamb Hosting and participating in roadshows: and Arranging ad hoc meetings with shareholders.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are made aware of major shareholder issues and concerns by ensuring the The Audit Committee Report is on pages 69 to 72 and the Board receives reports from the Chief Executive on Nomination Committee Report is on page 73.
The work of meetings with analysts and fund managers as well as the Remuneration Committee is described in the Directors' shareholders.
In addition, the Board receives reports from Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 88. its brokers which give anonymised feedback from investors.
