Directors Report Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Key matters reserved to the Board: The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code the Groups long-term objectives, strategy and risk appetite The Board considered the Companys compliance with the Code during the year.
Please see our compliance statement on page 67. shareholder engagement and general meetings overall corporate governance arrangements including Board composition, The Board committee terms of reference and Directors independence and conflicts of interest The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for the direction, management and performance of the Company.
internal controls, governance and risk management frameworks Details of the Board are set out on pages 58 to 61 and on page 63. changes to the corporate or capital structure of the Company Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the annual report and accounts, and financial and regulatory announcements Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are on page 85.
Details of their remuneration and share interests are set out in the significant changes in accounting policies or practices Directors Remuneration Report on pages 77 and 86. policy on, and declarations of, payments to shareholders The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, generally annual budgets and financial expenditure and commitments above levels being those items which affect the shape, risk profile orstrategic set by the Board direction of the Group, as well as key financial items.
The schedule of reserved matters was reviewed during the year and is contained within remuneration policy and remuneration of Directors and senior executives our Board governance document available on the Groups website.
new share incentive or pension plans or major changes to existing plans Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Key areas of focus for 2016 Strategy and Merits of maintaining a balanced portfolio of power Strategic priorities endorsed and re-set: considered Driving new strategic priorities risk systems businesses: markets, technology and product approach to risk appetite: enhanced risk towards future return to growth.
strategy: risks to the strategy: effectiveness of risk management system and principal risksapproved.
management system and review of principal risks with Individual principal risks considered in detail and Enhanced internal controls detailed review of export control compliance, business the Board was assured that they are managed andassurance framework.
continuity, competitive position, talent and capability, appropriately.
and major programme delivery principal risks.
Shareholder Need to improve shareholder communications: More detail provided in investor presentations: Continued engagement to rebuild engagement ValueActs acquisition of significant shareholding.
greater level of engagement with investors: investor confidence.
Financial and Financial performance and outlook: productincidents Updates to trading outlook: oversight Driving operational performance operational in service: health, safety and the environment.
improvements and better performance forecasting.
Changes to Share buyback: levels of access to debt capital: ADR Share buyback halted.
Approved revised ADR New share plans and updated capital structure programme: new US bond programme: new EIB loan: programme, USbond, EIB loan, update to EMTN remuneration policy for adoption update of EMTN programme and refinancing programme and refinancing of RCF.
Payments to Progressive payment policy and level of payment Approved final payment to shareholders in respect Review of policy on payments shareholders declared in February 2015. offinancial year 2014 and interim payment for 2015. toshareholders.
Board Succession planning for Chief Executive and Appointments of Warren East as Chief Executive, Executive succession and composition Non-executive Directors.
and Irene Dorner, Alan Davies and Sir Kevin Smith retentionplanning.
Further consideration of balance Appointment of a representative of ValueAct as a Considered appointing a representative of ValueAct ofBoard and its committees in light director.
under usual nomination process, which continued of Directors terms of office.
Corporate Committee terms of reference, Directors Changes to composition of committees and updates Embedding new internal governance governance independence, Chairmans evaluation.
to committee terms of reference approved.
Further implementation of Board New internal governance framework.
Internal governance framework approved subject toreflecting changes to organisational design.
Annual budgets 2016 budget in light of 2015 financial performance Budget approved.
Delivering competitively to our and headwinds.
Capital Investment in new facilities in Indianapolis.
Investment approved subject to State funding.
64 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Corporate governance Board and committee meetings held in 2015 NG NG NG R R R NG NG A A NG A R NG ST A NG R SE AGM SE IAB R SE SE R A NG ST B B B B B B B B B B B B B January February March April May June July August September October November December Committee meetings Other meetings Nominations & Governance Committee Safety & Ethics Committee Board NG SE B Remuneration Committee IAB International Advisory Board R ST Science & Technology Committee AGM A Audit Committee Annual General Meeting Denotes unscheduled meeting The unscheduled meetings were held toconsider: Warren Easts selection and appointment asChief Executive ValueActs acquisition of a major shareholding in the Company MarchandApril September andNovember Board committee composition arising from director changes May Sir Kevin Smiths appointment as a Non-executive Director September the Groups trading outlook and market updates July and November Some of the Directors were unable to participate in the unscheduled meetings of the Nominations & Governance Committee held inApriland November and the unscheduled Board meetings in July and November as these meetings were called on short notice.
Board and committee attendance at scheduled meetings Nominations & Science & Board Audit Governance Remuneration Safety & Ethics Technology Current Directors Number of meetings 9 5 4 5 4 2 Ian Davis 9 9 4 4 1 Warren East appointed Chief Executive on 3 July 2015 9 9 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 Dame Helen Alexander 6 9 3 4 5 5 1 4 Lewis Booth 9 9 5 5 4 4 2 2 Ruth Cairnie 9 9 4 4 5 5 2 2 Sir Frank Chapman 8 9 4 4 5 5 4 4 Alan Davies appointed 1 November 2015 2 2 2 2 2 2 Irene Dorner appointed 27 July 2015 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 Lee Hsien Yang joined Audit Committee 2 March 2015 9 9 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 John McAdam 8 9 4 4 5 5 2 4 Colin Smith 9 9 David Smith 9 9 Sir Kevin Smith appointed 1 November 2015 2 2 2 2 1 1 Jasmin Staiblin 8 9 4 4 2 2 Former Directors James Guyette left 8 May 2015 4 4 John Neill left 8 May 2015 4 4 2 2 John Rishton left 2 July 2015 5 5 1 Warren East stepped down from the Nominations & Governance, Audit and Science & Technology Committees upon his appointment as Chief Executive on 3 July 2015.
2 Dame Helen Alexander missed the scheduled Board meetings in January, March and July, the scheduled Nominations & Governance Committee meeting in July and the Safety & Ethics Committee meetings in February and July for medical reasons.
She also missed the Safety & Ethics Committee meeting in December due toan unavoidable diary clash with a board meeting of UBM plc, of which she is chairman.
3 John McAdam missed the scheduled meetings of the Board and Safety & Ethics Committee in June and the Safety & Ethics Committee meeting in July due to unavoidable diary clashes with board meetings of J. Sainsbury plc, of which he is the senior independent director.
The clashes in June were caused by the Company needing toreschedule to an alternative date at short notice.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 65 Directors Report Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED significant interaction with the Board or its committees including Appointments and re-appointments external auditors and remuneration advisors: and observations We refreshed the composition of the Board with the appointment ofanumber of the meetings.
In 2015, Independent Audit were engaged of three new Non-executive Directors: IreneDorner, Alan Davies and to conduct a follow-up review of progress towards the 2014 Sir Kevin Smith.
Warren East, who waspreviously aNon-executive recommendations.
This was not a full independent board evaluation Director, became the Chief Executive in July.
Details of the assessment but, as an  review, it involved the appointment process are set out inthe Nominations & Governance Directors completing anonline, tailored, self-assessment questionnaire Committee report on pages 70 and 71. and Independent Audit speaking with the Chairman, the Chief Executive and each ofthe Board committee chairs.
Independent Audit also observed the November Board and Audit Committee meetings Board induction and development with a review of the papers for those meetings.
The meetings observed were heavily focused on the Companys revised financial outlook, Newly appointed Directors follow a tailored induction programme, resulting inthemarket update given on 12 November 2015. facilitated by the Company Secretary, which includes dedicated time with Group executives and scheduled trips to a variety of business Independent Audit presented the results of the 2015 follow-up sites.
All Directors are encouraged to visit the Groups facilities and to review tothe Board in December 2015.
In the context of 2015 having undertake additional training.
Details are set out in the Nominations & been a particularly challenging year for the Company and its Governance Committee report on page 72, which includes information shareholders, Independent Audit noted that progress had been on Warren Easts induction into the role of Chief Executive.
made in certain areas, including the Boards overall composition and clearer risk managementprocesses.
Independence of the Non-executive Directors There were several areas identified as needing further attention.
These were generally related to making the most effective use The Board conducts a review of the independence of the Non-executive ofthe Boards time, and included: Directors every year, based on the criteria in the Code and following consideration by the Nominations & Governance Committee as making sure the Boards discussions and agenda focus on and align to detailed on page 73.
This review was undertaken in December 2015 the transformation agenda and near-term priorities: and the Board concluded that all the Non-executive Directors ensuring that the Board devotes sufficient time to support this remained independent in character and judgement.
focus through discussion, and minimises lengthy management presentations: The Code does not consider the test of independence to be appropriate drawing out clear conclusions from Board discussions more to the chairman of a company.
However, Ian Davis did meet the Codes effectively to guide management activity: independence criteria upon his appointment as Chairman in May2013.
giving due time and attention to people development, His other external commitments are described on page 58. talentandsuccession: and We are satisfied that, based on the Directors current declared better use of metrics and risk reporting in Board papers.
interests, the Board will comply with the Financial Reporting Having gone through the effectiveness review described above, and Councils FRC forthcoming independence requirements acknowledging the disappointing and difficult financial position that onthemaximum number of external directorships.
dominated discussions at the November Board and Audit Committee meetings, with the consequential market update, the Directors are satisfied that the Board and each of its committees operated Board evaluation effectively during 2015.
Nonetheless, based on Independent Audits The Board and its committees undertake an annual evaluation of their observations, the Board is continuing towork on actions to improve performance.
At least once every three years this is conducted by its effectiveness for the future.
In 2014, the evaluation was conducted by Lewis Booth, as the Senior Independent Director, led the Boards Independent Audit who returned in 2015 to conduct a follow-up review annual review of the Chairmans performance.
Lewis obtained input of progress made.
During the year, the Company subscribed to an online from each of the Directors individually and then led a review at the service from Independent Audit which was used to support the Boards Board meeting in December without the Chairman present.
Independent Audit also acted as an external sounding board in Board unanimously agreed that the Chairmans performance support of the Companys review of its internal governance, risk continued to be very strong through a difficult year for the Group, management, controls and assurance frameworks and in supporting with him showing particular leadership and commitment in the an online survey of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
process to select and appoint a new Chief Executive and further Independent Audit does not have any other connection to theCompany.
The Board noted the Chairmans exceptional The original Board evaluation included: a review of Board and level of dedication to his role and to his engagement with the other committee papers: interviews with Directors and others who have Directors in keeping them informed and soliciting their views.
66 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Corporate governance Executive Leadership Team ELT International Advisory Board IAB The ELT is an executive-level forum of the Groups most senior leaders, The IAB meets annually with the Board in order to provide chaired by the Chief Executive.
Ithelps to develop, implement and perspective and to guide strategy development through discussions monitor strategic and operational plans, considers the continuing on the geo-political and global economic landscape that may applicability, appropriateness and impact of risks, leads the Groups present risks or opportunities to the Groups current or future culture and aids the decision making of the Chief Executive in activities.
The members of the IAB during the year were as follows: managing the business.
Following the initial results of the Chief Executives operational review announced in November, the ELT Lord Powell of Bayswater Dr Pedro Sampaio Malan membership was restructured under the oversight of the Chairman of the IAB Chairman of Ita Unibancos Nominations & Governance Committee to reflect the transformation Former Foreign Affairs and international advisory board and Defence Adviser to Prime a member of the boards ofEDP agenda.
The current ELT composition is set out on page 61.
Ministers Baroness Thatcher Energias do Brasil, SouzaCruz, and Sir John Major Brazil, Mills Engenharia, adirector Directors indemnities and insurance of Thomson Reuters Founders Vladimr Dlouh Share Company and amember of International advisor to In accordance with the Articles, and to the extent permitted by law, the Temasek international panel Goldman Sachs for Central and the Company has entered into separate deeds of indemnity with its Eastern Europe, European Akio Mimura Directors, which were in force during the financial year and remain deputy chairman of the Senior advisor, honorary chairman in force at the date of this report.
The Company also maintains Trilateral Commission, Nippon Steel & Sumitomo directors and officers liability insurance cover for its Directors and president, Czech Chamber MetalCorporation, Japan, ofCommerce and a former chairman of The Japan Chamber officers.
This cover also extends to directors of subsidiary companies.
member of the Czech of Commerce and Industry Government Lubna Olayan Internal control and risk management Sir Rod Eddington CEO and deputy chairperson Chairman of JP Morgan ofthe Olayan Financing In developing our internal governance framework we looked at how Australia &New Zealand Company, Saudi Arabia the Companys risk management and internal control systems work andformer chief executive Ratan Tata together.
You can read about our risk management system on ofBritish AirwaysPlc Chairman Emeritus of Tata page54 and details of our internal control system are in the Audit Dr Fan Gang Sons Limited, India Committee report on page 95.
As noted on page 54, these systems Professor at Chinas Academy are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure Ambassador Robert B. Zoellick ofSocial Sciences and director Chairman of Goldman Sachs toachieve objectives and so can only provide reasonable and not of National Economic Research International Advisors, senior absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Institute, China fellow at the Belfer Center at Board, with the advice of the AuditCommittee, has reviewed the Mustafa Ko Harvard University, former effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems, Chairman of Ko Holding, A.. president of World Bank Group, including controls in relation to the financial reporting process, Turkey US Trade Representative and forthe year under review and to the date of this report.
TheBoard Mr Ko passed away on 21January2016 USDeputy Secretary of State confirms that the Group continues to be compliant with thestandards in the Code and with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules in this regard.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code Financial reporting The Company is subject to the provisions of the Code, a copy of The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual which is available from the FRCs website.
budget approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are The Board considers that the Company complied in all material reported at least quarterly.
Actual results, at both a business and respects with the Code for the whole of the year to 31 December Group level, are reported monthly against budget and variances are 2015.
The Board has agreed that arrangements by which staff may kept under scrutiny.
Since his appointment in November 2014, the raise concerns in confidence are considered and reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer has undertaken an in-depth review of our Safety & Ethics Committee.
Matters relating to financial reporting, management reporting and budgeting processes to ensure that the integrity of financial management or fraud are also reported they fully provide what we need, taking into account the size and to the Audit Committee.
shape of the Group and the structure ofour operations.
The Audit Committee has again considered the requirement to Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that putthe audit out to tender every ten years and in line with the their routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that FRCs transitional arrangements will do so during the tenure results are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
ofthecurrent lead partner which expires in 2017.
The current In addition, for annual reporting, business presidents and finance auditors will not be invited to tender.
More detail is in the Audit directors are required to confirm that their business has complied Committee report on page 96. with the Groups finance manual.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 67 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt t C Cor orp pora orat te e g go ov five er rn na anc nce e CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED members of the Board, attended various formal meetings, including Shareholder engagement the capital markets presentation on 24 November 2015.
The Board recognises and values the importance of building strong In early 2016, Dame Helen Alexander, as chair of the Remuneration investor relations through a proactive communication programme.
Committee, consulted with a number of investors on proposed During 2015, various steps have been taken to improve performance changes to the 2016 annual bonus and Performance Share Plan inthis area.
These have included strengthening our investor relations PSP.
You can read more about this in the Remuneration Committee function with the addition of experienced professionals and report on pages 74 to 76. enhancing our disclosure and transparency through improved reporting.
In addition, the frequency of meetings with investors has The Groups website rolls-royce.
com contains up-to-date significantly increased under the new management team.
As a result, information for shareholders, including an online version of the we have also been proactive in obtaining an understanding of Annual Report, share price information, news releases, shareholder views on key matters affecting the Group and have presentations to the investment community and information on incorporated these into our Board deliberations around strategy, shareholder services.
Italso contains factual data about the Groups performance improvement and governance.
In addition, we have businesses, products and services.
benefited from a review of investor opinion undertaken by an independent investor representative body towards the end of the year.
Annual General Meeting AGM Our Investor Relations department plays a key role inbuilding All holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at stronger, clearer discussions with current and potential investors which the Chairman and Chief Executive present a review of the key and the sell-side analysts that help inform them.
During the year, business developments during the year.
This years AGM will be held the team have undertaken an extensive investor relations at 11.00am on 5 May 2016 at the East Midlands Conference Centre, programme involving formal events, smaller group and one-on-one University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RJ.
The purpose of the larger events is to highlight particular issues, themes or announcements that the Group believes Shareholders can ask questions of the Board on the matters put to develop a better understanding of the business or which warrant the meeting, including the Annual Report and the running of the further explanation or clarification.
The events also provide Company generally.
All Directors are invited to attend each AGM.
opportunities for shareholders to meet members of the senior Unless unforeseen circumstances arise, all committee chairmen management team.
The one-to-one and group meetings provide willbe present to take questions at the AGM.
anopportunity for investors to ask more detailed questions that can The Company intends to send the AGM notice and any relevant improve individual knowledge or clarify areas of misunderstanding.
related papers to shareholders at least 20 working days before This is a critical process in ensuring market participants make themeeting.
The AGM notice will be available to view on the decisions based on a consistent understanding of the information Groups website.
In this way, shareholders should be able to consistently and fairly value the Groups businesses.
A poll is conducted on each resolution at the AGM and at all other Company general meetings.
Shareholders have the opportunity As a matter of best practice, the Chairman and Senior Independent tocast their votes in respect of proposed resolutions either in Director, together with other members of the Board, make person at the general meeting, or by appointing a proxy to vote on themselves available to meet with investors at their request their behalf.
Proxy appointments can be made either electronically andregularly attend key investor relations events.
Following the AGM, the voting results for each resolution During the year, it has been necessary to provide material updates are published and made available on our website.
on performance and expectations to the market alongside regular results communications.
This included a capital markets Information included in the Directors report presentation in London on 24 November 2015, attended by over 200investors and analysts.
At the same time, the team have held Certain additional information can be found in the section over 500 one-to-one and group meetings, led by the Chief Executive, headedOther statutory information on pages 178 to 181 and Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Investor Relations or isincorporated into and forms part of this Corporate Governance members of the Investor Relations team.
In addition, the Chairman report by reference.
has undertaken 20 meetings or detailed discussions with investors, five at their request.
Lewis Booth, our Senior Independent Director, has met with a further six investors, two at their request.
Both the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, together with other 68 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Committee reports Nominations & Governance Committee NOMINATIONS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Highlights Warren East appointed as Chief Executive Three new independent Non-executive Directors appointed Board governance document adopted and published Development of internal governance framework 2015 overview Introduction Principal responsibilities Committee members and attendance In January 2015, the Nominations The key areas of responsibility of the The members of the committee are shown Committees remit was widened to include committee are: on pages 58 to 61 and their attendance governance issues and was renamed the isshown on page 65.
TheChief Executive t o review the structure, size and Nominations & Governance Committee.
may attend meetings of the committee composition including skills, knowledge, This committee is now responsible for byinvitation.
experience and diversity of the Board and advising the Board on governance best its committees, to ensure that it remains The committee met nine times during practice, ensuring that the Group policies appropriate, and to make recommendations 2015 and focused in particular on the are appropriate and forkeeping the to the Board of any changes: composition of the Board resulting in the composition and balance of the Board and appointments of three new Non-executive t o consider and formulate succession senior executive team under review.
The Directors and the appointment of a new plans for Directors and senior executives: committee also has responsibility for the Chief Executive.
The committee also identification of the future composition t o evaluate any conflicts of interest that oversaw the restructuring of the ELT.
needs of the Board inlight of the business the Directors may have: strategy and for maintaining the Groups t o review the Boards diversity policy position on diversity and inclusion.
andits implementation: Thecommittee reports to the Board on t o report to the Board on the Companys Directors conflicts and regularly reviews corporate governance practices and the Non-executive Directors procedures to ensure that they remain independence.
appropriate for a group of the size and The committee has been allocated complexity of Rolls-Royce, taking account responsibility on behalf of the Board for ofbest practice principles: overseeing the Groups principle risk t o oversee the induction plans relating to talent and capability.
forDirectors: t o review the results of the annual Board performance evaluation: t o review the independence of the Non-executive Directors: and t o conduct an annual evaluation of the ChiefExecutive.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 69
