Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 63 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
This report describes the work of the Audit Committee, its responsibilities and keytasks as well as its major areas of activity and key considerations for the financial year.
Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee and its Chairman are as follows: From To M G Towers Chairman 1 April 2009 To date L Drummond 25 March 2015 To date S Rojahn 1 April 2009 To date M G Towers 1 I Haaijer 30 May 2012 13 May 2015 Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 I Haaijer retired from the Board and its Committees on 13 May 2015.
The Committee meets at least three times each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and the attendance of members of the Committee are shown in the table on page 43.
The external auditor attends meetings of the Committee, other than when their appointment or performance is being reviewed.
The Group Finance Director, other members of the Board, the Group Controller and the Group Internal Audit Manager attend Audit Committee meetings as appropriate.
The Committee meets with the auditor without any other directors or management present at least twice each year.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman, M G Towers, a chartered accountant, has recent and relevant financial experience and has extensive experience in senior finance roles.
The Audit Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference in accordance with best practice in 2013.
The revised terms are available on the Companys website www.
Key Responsibilities The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: monitor the financial reporting process including the integrity and clarity of the financial statements of the Company and review any significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain: review and challenge where necessary the consistency of and changes to accounting policies, the methods used to account for significant and unusual transactions and whether the Company has followed appropriate accounting standards and made appropriate estimates and judgements: approve the external auditors terms of engagement, audit plan and scope of the audit and review with them the results of their audit and any control issues raised: review the effectiveness of the external auditor and their independence and objectivity: consider and make recommendations to the Board on the external auditors remuneration and their appointment, reappointment or removal: review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and review the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and its systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and receive reports on non-compliance: review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial and other matters: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, approve the appointment and removal of internal auditors, review and approve their remit, review and assess internal audit plans, review internal audit reports and monitor managements responses to recommendations.
The Audit Committee fulfilled its responsibilities outlined above during the year.
The Committee, together with the Board, takes care when reviewing the annual report and accounts and half yearly, interim and other relevant published reports to ensure that a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects is presented and that information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy is provided.
64 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Main Activities of the Audit Committee in the Year The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Three of the meetings, which were routinely scheduled, dealt with the following matters: May November January Financial reporting and significant judgements Full year results and announcement Half year results and announcement Going concern report External audit Review and consideration of Audit Highlights Memorandum Board representation letter Evaluation of external audit function Reappointment recommendation to Board Fees for non-audit activities External audit plan Separate meeting with External Auditor Internal audit Internal controls & risk management report Internal controls & risk management update Internal audit update Evaluation of Internal audit function 2015 Internal audit plan Other Annual review of terms of reference Annual evaluation of committee Compliance with UK Corporate Governance and other The fourth meeting, which took place in March 2015, was convened specifically to consider tenders from a number of audit firms following the decision to put the external audit contract out to tender in 2014 15.
The Committees monitoring and review role during the year has been particularly focused on the final financial impacts of the Fitter for the Future programme and other non-recurring costs which are classified as Exceptional items, and the accounting for three acquisitions in the year, Ace Corporation, PET Power and Promens.
The Committee also considered recent EU directives on external auditor tenure and how this might impact the Group going forward.
In addition to the above meetings in 2014 15, at its meeting in June 2015 the Committee reviewed the Groups financial statements and other relevant disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial Reporting and Significant Financial Judgements The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements in the preparation of the financial statements.
In respect to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015, the significant issues reviewed, and how these issues were addressed, are summarised below: Exceptional items Note 4 on page 92 of the financial statements describes the nature of the 42.9m of non-recurring and exceptional items recognised in the year, relating to the final stages of the Fitter for the Future business optimisation programme, acquisition and business integration costs, and other additional costs arising from other one-off events.
The Committee considered the accounting treatment and disclosure of these costs in the financial statements through a detailed review of managements plans in respect to the programme, and also sought the views of the external auditor as to the appropriateness and consistency of the accounting treatment and disclosures.
In addition the Audit Committee also considered the recoverability of insurance claims arising from a major fire which had been classified as an Exceptional event.
On the basis of this review the Committee concluded that the accounting treatment and disclosure of these items were appropriate.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 65 Valuation of acquired intangibles In June 2014, the Group acquired the Ace Corporation for an initial consideration of 218m and in February 2015 it acquired two further businesses, PET Power for 32m and the Promens Group for 299m.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires assets and liabilities acquired to be recorded at fair value and to separately identify intangible assets from goodwill, initially measuring each group of intangible assets at fair value.
These intangible assets included customer relationships, technology and brands.
There is judgement involved in estimating fair values, particularly in relation to identifiable intangible assets, which requires the directors to estimate the useful economic life of each asset and the future cash flows expected to arise from each asset and to apply a suitable discount rate.
The Group adopted a methodology which has been consistently applied to all acquisitions in recent years and discussed their approach and assumptions with the Committee.
The auditor provided the Committee with their review of the fair value exercise and following discussion the Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used were appropriate and that the resultant fair values were reasonable.
Details of how this acquisition has been accounted for are set out in note 26 of the financial statements.
In addition the Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the results communications are fair, balanced and understandable, and review the results announcements and annual report and accounts to ensure that this is the case.
External Auditor KPMG has been the Companys external auditor since 1999 with the lead audit partner changing every five years.
In 2012, the Audit Committee conducted an external audit tender and KPMG LLP were reappointed as the Companys external auditor.
However, following the requirement to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years in accordance with the 2012 edition of the Code, recent EU directives on auditor rotation and the length of their tenure, the Committee decided to undertake another audit tender during 2014 15 without inviting KPMG.
A process commenced in early 2015, with three firms invited to participate and two firms shortlisted ahead of a final selection meeting with the Audit Committee in March.
In assessing the firms, consideration was given to their international strengths and capabilities relevant to our business and markets within which we operate, the technical specialists that would be dedicated to the audit and the uniqueness of the audit approach and audit coverage of the Group.
The process met the recommendations in the associated guidance to conduct an open and fair process, and following the tender,  PWC have been recommended to the Board to be appointed auditor with effect for the financial year 2015 16.
Their proposed appointment as the Groups external auditor will be tabled to the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee has conducted a detailed review of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor and reviewed monitoring and approval procedures during the year.
Although higher than in previous years, it is satisfied that the level of fees for non-audit services has not impaired auditor objectivity and independence based on the principles adopted in the Group policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
Under the policy, the auditor may not be engaged to audit their own work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutual financial interest with the Group or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for non-audit services where the fees are likely to exceed specified limits both for individual assignments and in the aggregate.
Details of the amounts payable to the external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
The Committee is monitoring developments in the EU regarding limitations on the provision of non-audit services and will review its policy accordingly.
In addition to its review of non-audit fees, the Committee has conducted its annual assessment of the external auditor, including matters that might have a bearing on their independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of their audit.
The assessment takes into account the systems and procedures adopted by KPMG and the results of an internal questionnaire.
The Committee is satisfied that the external audit process remains effective and that auditor objectivity and independence is properly safeguarded.
Internal Audit The Group Internal Audit Manager is invited to attend Audit Committee meetings where external audit and internal control matters are considered and to report on the results of internal audits and progress on the implementation of recommendations directly to the Committee.
The internal audit process has become well established and has continued to develop to take into account the expansion of the Group and new responsibilities, such as Bribery Act 2010 compliance and IT audits.
During the year, the Committee approved the annual internal audit plans and the scope of audits.
It also reviewed the results of audits and the internal audit resources in respect of the Group.
Following the recent acquisitions and their impact on the Group in terms of the substantial increase in the number of selfaccounting sites and extension of locations outside of Europe, the Group plans to increase the size of its internal audit function and appoint external audit firms to assist with internal audits as appropriate.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has been regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board, and is in accordance with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The key procedures in the Groups process for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls are summarised below: There is a clearly defined Group management responsibility and reporting structure.
The Groups objectives are reviewed as part of the strategic planning process and communicated throughout the Group.
Objectives are set for individual operating units as part of the strategy review process.
A three-year strategy review is prepared for the Boards consideration each year.
This is appraised in the light of the strategic and other relevant risks and issues faced by the Group, the resources available and its objectives.
66 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Risk Management and Internal Control continued Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the Groups annual strategic planning cycle.
The Group has a detailed risk management process, which identifies the key risks faced by the individual reporting entities and the Group as a whole and the actions and controls required to manage these risks.
The process is reviewed each year to ensure it remains relevant to the business over time.
The Board and Audit Committee review this information as part of the internal control review.
The directors are required to approve yearly financial budgets, including capital expenditure, for each of the Groups operating units.
Performance against these targets is monitored monthly and reported on at Board meetings.
Reasons for divergences are discussed at Board meetings.
Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks in their area of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
Through the use of risk registers, these risks are assessed on a continual basis.
An annual review is performed on the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including a detailed risk assessment.
The internal audit function undertakes work to review the system of internal control at each operation visited and reports findings to management.
Matters relating to internal control brought to the attention of the management by the internal and external auditor are reviewed and any corrective actions to the internal control procedures are made in a timely manner.
The Group operates an effective group reporting and consolidation system.
Written monthly reports, management accounts and key performance indicators are submitted by operating units and reviewed every month by senior management.
Significant risks and internal control issues are considered, actions agreed and progress monitored regularly with reporting entities and, where appropriate, at executive and Board meetings.
Operating units produce plans to improve controls relating to key risks and any significant weaknesses identified by Group executives in addition to other initiatives and ongoing actions in progress at the local or divisional level.
An Internal Controls Committee, comprising senior finance managers in the Group, ensures that operating units respond to and implement internal control recommendations arising from internal and external audits.
An interim report is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board to monitor the operating units progress against their plans to improve controls to ensure that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
The report also includes updates on significant risks and other internal control issues.
The internal audit function has performed reviews at a number of the Groups sites during the year.
In addition, the Group has identified a number of risks faced by the business, requiring particular attention to control and monitoring, and these are held in a Group risk register.
Details of the specific risks that are seen as particularly important at the current time are given in the Principal Risks on pages 18 and 19.
The directors confirm that they have carried out their annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it has operated throughout the year ended 31 March 2015 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors also confirm that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
M G Towers Chairman of the Audit Committee 10 June 2015
