42 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Principles Statement The Board recognises and fully supports the value of good corporate governance as an important factor in achieving its overall objectives.
In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority UK Listing Rules, a statement describing how the Company has applied the Main Principles contained in the September 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk and the statements required by sections 7.1 and 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out in this report together with the Strategic report, Directors remuneration report, Audit Committee report and the Directors report.
Statement of Compliance The Company has complied with the provisions of the September 2012 edition of the Code throughout the period under review.
The following report, the Strategic report, the Directors remuneration report and the Audit Committee report set out how the Company has complied with the Code.
Leadership The Role of the Board The Board is principally concerned with the overall leadership, strategy and development of the Group in order to promote the success of the Group for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole within a framework of effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups strategic objectives, ensures that the necessary resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives, reviews management performance and ensures that high ethical standards of behaviour are followed.
In its decision-making processes, the Board takes into account the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term, the interests of the Companys employees, relationships with suppliers and customers, the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment and maintaining the Companys reputation for high standards of business conduct.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: approval of the Groups objectives, strategic plans and annual budgets: authorisation of material acquisitions, disposals, capital investments, credit facilities, contracts and transactions: approving changes to the Groups capital structure, listing and legal and organisational structure: approval of financial reports, dividend policy and communication with shareholders and the market: monitoring the Groups management, operating and financial performance: review of risk assessments and the effectiveness of internal controls: responsibility for Board membership and appointments, directors remuneration and contracts and remuneration policy: and Group corporate governance and approval of Group policies.
Matters not specifically reserved for the Board and the day-to-day operations of the Group are delegated to management.
During the year under review, since the appointment of L Drummond and G S Wong as non-executive directors on 16 July 2014, the Board has consisted of eight directors being a non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors, one non-independent non-executive director and two executive directors.
The names and biographical details of the directors and their roles and Committee membership within RPC Group Plc are shown on pages 40 and 41.
The significant commitments outside the Group of the Chairman and non-executive directors are given in their biographies.
Changes to such commitments are reported to the Board as they arise.
The Board meets at least six times each year.
In addition a meeting is held specifically to discuss Group strategy.
Normally at least one meeting is combined with a visit to an operating unit and the opportunity to meet the local management team.
The Chief Executives of the Groups Divisions make regular presentations to the Board on divisional strategy and other key aspects of their business.
The directors review the frequency of meetings each year as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and attendance by their members is given in the table below.
Directors who are unable to attend a meeting receive the agenda and meeting papers and provide the Chairman with their comments before the meeting.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 43 Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Year ended Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number 31 March 2015 meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended Non-executive directors J R P Pike 8 8 4 4 n a n a n a n a I Haaijer 8 5 4 2 6 4 4 2 S Rojahn 8 8 4 4 6 6 4 4 M G Towers 8 8 4 4 6 6 4 4 1 L Drummond 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 G S Wong 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a n a Executive directors P R M Vervaat 8 8 n a n a n a n a n a n a S J Kesterton 8 8 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 Number of meetings attended from appointment to the Board on 16 July 2014.
The main areas of business dealt with by the Board during the year other than routine matters included: Monitoring the good progress made in the three core elements of the Companys Vision 2020 Focused Growth Strategy being: continuing focused organic growth in selected areas of the packaging markets: selective consolidation in the European packaging market through targeted acquisitions to strengthen and extend market positions: and creating a meaningful presence outside Europe where growth rates in rigid plastic packaging are considerably higher.
Acquisition on 2 June 2014 of Ace Corporation Holdings Limited, a China based and Hong Kong headquartered award-winning manufacturer of complex plastic injection moulded components and injection moulding tools for the packaging, lifestyle, medical, power and automotive end markets.
Operating from five factories in China, it provides the Group with a strong platform to support its international customer base with high quality packaging of European standard in Asia, as well as the opportunity to benefit from the growth in this profitable niche manufacturer and contributing towards creating a meaningful presence outside Europe.
Acquisition on 20 February 2015 of Promens Group AS, a leading European manufacturer of rigid plastic products for a wide range of end markets, including plastic packaging for chemicals, personal and healthcare, food and beverage and rigid plastic components for materials handling, and commercial vehicles.
Promens Group AS has 41 production facilities spanning 20 countries, including sites in North America, Asia and North Africa.
The acquisition was financed partly from a successful rights issue of shares and an increase in the multicurrency revolving credit facility from 350m to490m.
It meets the aim of selective consolidation in Europe extending the Groups reach and capabilities, strengthening its position across the enlarged Groups common packaging end markets and adjacent technologies in rotational moulding, reaction injection moulding and vacuum forming were acquired.
Acquisition of PET Power in the Netherlands enhancing the Groups sales into the cosmetics, food and pharmaceuticals markets.
Planning and monitoring the realisation on synergies and the integration of acquired businesses including the management organisation of the enlarged Group following the acquisition of Promens.
Monitoring the final phase of Fitter for the Future including completing the extension to the Superfos facility at Mullsj, Sweden and merger of the Tehult factory into these facilities: completion of the closure of the Troyes site in France: restructuring to optimise the existing business portfolio within the Blow Moulding and RPC Bramlage-Wiko businesses: and sale of the trading disposables business at Offenburg, Germany in May 2014 and the Cobelplast sheet businesses in Belgium and Italy in September 2014.
Approving investment in capital projects investing in organic growth including expansion of production facilities at the RPC M&H USA site.
44 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Leadership continued Chairman and Chief Executive The non-executive Chairman of the Board is J R P Pike and the Chief Executive is P R M Vervaat.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are clearly defined and set out in a written statement on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective running of the Board and its decision-making processes, for setting the highest standards of integrity and probity, for setting its agenda and the style and tone of Board discussions.
The role includes: leading the Board in determining strategy and the achievement of the Groups objectives while ensuring that the Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks associated with the implementation of its strategy: creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and safeguarding their interests: ensuring that directors keep their skill, knowledge and familiarity with the Group up-to-date: regularly considering succession planning and the composition of the Board: and ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day running of the Groups business, except for matters specifically reserved for the Board.
The Board considered that on appointment, J R P Pike met the independence criteria set out in provision B.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans external commitments do not interfere with the performance of his duties to the Company.
The Chairman held informal meetings with the non-executive directors during the year to discuss Board related matters without the executive directors present.
The Role of Non-executive Directors The Company had four non-executive directors at the date of this report.
The non-executive directors during the year were as follows: From To 1 S Rojahn 25 January 2006 To date M G Towers 1 April 2009 To date L Drummond 16 July 2014 To date G S Wong 16 July 2014 To date 2 I Haaijer 30 May 2012 13 May 2015 1 S Rojahn will retire from the Board at the close of the AGM on 15 July 2015.
2 I Haaijer retired from the Board on 13 May 2015.
The role of the non-executive directors, in addition to the general duties and responsibilities of directors, is to: constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: ensure the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, executive directors and in succession planning: uphold high standards of integrity and probity and support the Chairman and the other directors in instilling the appropriate culture, values and behaviour in the boardroom and beyond: insist on receiving high-quality information sufficiently in advance of Board meetings: and take into account the views of shareholders and other stakeholders where appropriate.
Senior Independent Director M G Towers was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders on request and to enable shareholders to voice any concerns that contact through the normal investor communication channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director provides support for the Chairman on Board matters.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors have met informally at least once during the year without the Chairman present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Board Committees There are three principal Board Committees all of which operate under written terms of reference which are available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website www.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are reviewed and, if appropriate, updated each year by the relevant Committee and the Board.
Only members of a Committee are entitled to attend meetings but each Committee may invite other directors, managers or advisers to attend.
The Company Secretary is secretary to all three Committees.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 45 The performance and membership of each Committee are reviewed each year by the relevant committee and the Board.
Sufficient resources are provided to enable the Committees to undertake their duties and they have authority to appoint independent professional advisers or consultants when required.
The Chairman of the relevant Committee reports on the proceedings and any recommendations made at the subsequent Board meeting.
Directors Indemnities and Insurance Cover The Board reviews the level of insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Groups directors and officers and senior management on an annual basis.
The Board has also provided indemnities to the directors which are described on page 68 of the Directors report.
Effectiveness Board Composition and Independence The Nomination Committee reviews the size, composition and balance of the Board each year and recommends any changes for the directors to consider.
Despite its relatively small size, the Board comprises directors with a wide range of managerial, professional and academic experience from accounting, finance and consultancy to manufacturing, engineering, pharmaceuticals and healthcare.
Between them the directors have experience of doing business in the UK, Europe and in the USA, South America, India and the Far East.
Of the directors in office at the date of this report, one is Dutch, one is German and a third is a Chinese US national and there are both male and female members of the Board.
The Board has endorsed the policy on diversity, including gender, recommended by the Nomination Committee.
Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, independent non-executive directors comprised at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The independent non-executive directors during the year were: From To 1 S Rojahn 25 January 2006 To date M G Towers 1 April 2009 To date L Drummond 16 July 2014 To date 2 I Haaijer 30 May 2012 13 May 2015 1 S Rojahn will retire from the Board at the close of the AGM on 15 July 2015.
The independent non-executive directors bring valuable knowledge, a broad range of experience and strong, independent character and judgement to the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considered all these directors to be independent, including S Rojahn, who completed nine years as a director of the Company on 24 January 2015.
M G Towers, who since December 2009 holds a non-executive directorship in Tyman plc in common with J R P Pike, met the criteria for independence set out in provision B.
There were no other relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Non-executive director, G S Wong, who joined the Board on 16 July 2014, does not meet the material business relationship criteria for independence under Code provision B.
1.1. as he was a director and business adviser to Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd which was acquired by RPC Group on 2 June 2014.
Therefore the Board does not consider him to be independent.
Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee and its Chairman are as follows: From To J R P Pike Chairman 23 July 2008 To date S Rojahn 25 May 2006 To date M G Towers 1 April 2009 To date L Drummond 25 March 2015 To date G S Wong 25 March 2015 To date I Haaijer 30 May 2012 13 May 2015 The Committee meets at least twice each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and the attendance of members of the Committee are shown in the table on page 43.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director attended meetings by invitation.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: review and make recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board: give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior managers: evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when they arise: annually review the time required from non-executive directors and evaluate the membership and performance of the Board and its committees: and recommend the re-appointment of non-executive directors and re-election of directors.
46 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness continued Each year the Committee reviews the Boards structure, size, composition and balance and the membership of Board Committees.
It also reviews the performance of the Board, its Committees and the individual directors, the independence of non-executive directors and time commitment required from them and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee considers plans for the succession of directors and senior managers including the identification of internal managers who may be suitable for more senior positions in due course with the appropriate development of skills and experience.
The Committee is responsible for recommendations for appointments, reappointments and re-election of directors.
Recommendations for reappointment and re-election are made following review of the directors performance and consideration of the need to progressively refresh the Board.
The Nomination Committee has considered the recommendations made by Lord Davies in his Report on Women on Boards, his subsequent updates and the amendments made to the UK Corporate Governance Code by the Financial Reporting Council on diversity on boards including gender.
During the period under review, a second female director, L Drummond, was appointed bringing the proportion of women on the Board to 25% the minimum level recommended by Lord Davies for FTSE 250 companies.
However, on 13 May 2015 female director I Haaijer reluctantly decided to retire from the Board with immediate effect as following her recent promotion and increase in responsibilities with her employer, Royal DSM N. V. she was no longer able to provide the necessary time commitment to fulfil her duties as a non-executive director of the Company.
The policy recommended by the Committee and endorsed by the Board is that the search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted and appointments made on the basis of merit and the most appropriate experience against objective criteria in the best interests of shareholders.
In selecting candidates due regard will be given to the benefits of different nationalities, experience in a variety of business sectors and European and global markets and diversity on the Board including gender.
Although no target has been set for the number of women on the Board, consideration will be given to identifying senior female executives who might be suitable candidates to serve as non-executive directors on other company Boards.
The Nomination Committee, led by Chairman J R P Pike, is beginning the process of appointing external recruitment consultants and preparing a description of the role and capabilities required to recruit a new independent non-executive director to fill the vacancy left by I Haaijer taking into account current best practice and in particular, diversity including gender.
During the year under review, the Committee recommended and the Board approved the appointment of two new non-executive directors, L Drummond and G S Wong, to enhance the breadth of expertise and experience on the Board, to refresh the composition of the Board and to provide for the succession of nonexecutive directors.
Neither an external search consultant nor advertising were used to search for these particular candidates.
L Drummond was recommended by an external organisation.
Her experience in the pharmaceutical sector and in investment banking is of great benefit to RPC as it implements the Vision 2020 focused growth strategy including the development of the Groups pharmaceutical presence.
G S Wong was a director and business adviser to Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd and was introduced to RPC Groups management during the course of the acquisition process.
His knowledge of doing business in China and his broad international experience is helping RPC in developing its presence outside Europe.
He ceased to be a director of Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd following the acquisition by RPC Group on 2 June 2014.
The Committee conducted appropriate due diligence and interviewed both candidates before recommending them for appointment.
Both L Drummond and G S Wong were elected as directors of the Company by shareholders at the AGM on 16 July 2014 and their appointments were effective on the same date.
A summary of their qualifications and career histories is given in their biographies on page 41.
In May 2014 the Committee, with the Senior Independent Director, M G Towers, in the chair, recommended and the Board approved the re-appointment of the Chairman, J R P Pike, for a further three year term commencing on 23 July 2014 following a review of his performance led by the Senior Independent Director, and subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Following a rigorous review of his performance, the Committee recommended and the Board approved the reappointment of M G Towers for a third three-year term of office commencing on 1 April 2015 subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
On 24 January 2015, S Rojahn completed nine years as a non-executive director and the ninth anniversary of his first election will be on 19 July 2015.
During the year the Committee considered his retirement from the Board and planned for his succession.
It recommended and the Board subsequently agreed that L Drummond be appointed as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, that S Rojahn retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM and, following consultation with the Companys major shareholders, L Drummond be appointed as chair of the Remuneration Committee on the retirement of S Rojahn following completion of the reporting for the year ended 31 March 2015.
G S Wong was also appointed by the Board as a member of the Nomination Committee following recommendation by the Committee.
The Boards policy is that all the directors should submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually.
The Committee has recommended and the Board has approved resolutions for the re-election of all of the current directors except S Rojahn, following reviews of their performance, at the forthcoming AGM.
Appointment, Election and Re-election of Directors The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending new appointments to the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all directors appointed to the Board, other than at the Annual General Meeting AGM, are required to retire at the following AGM when they may offer themselves for election: thereafter they must submit themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Consequently, all the directors in office at the date of this report, except S Rojahn who is not seeking re-election, will submit themselves for re-election on an individual basis at the forthcoming AGM and annually thereafter.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 47 Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of three years or less, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, but the Board may terminate their appointment without notice or compensation at any time.
The Board is responsible for the appointment or, subject to effective performance and commitment, re-appointment of non-executive directors and setting their remuneration, which consists solely of directors fees.
A rigorous review of performance, taking into account the need for progressively refreshing the Board, is conducted when a non-executive director is proposed for re-appointment on completion of two terms of three years.
Non-executive directors may not normally serve longer than nine years.
Following the formal evaluation of each of the directors in office and seeking re-election at the date of this report, the Board recommends their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
All the non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report continue to be effective and demonstrate independence of character and judgement and commitment to the role.
Biographical details of all of the directors are given on pages 40 and 41.
Further information on the contribution made by each director to the Board may be found in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM on page 130.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving executive directors service contracts.
Details of these contracts are given in the Directors remuneration report.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and terms and conditions of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Information and Professional Development The Board is provided with relevant information on the activities of the Group in a timely manner and in a form and of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
There is a procedure established for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
In addition, all Board members have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys role also includes ensuring good information flows within the Board and Committees and between executive and non-executive directors and facilitating induction as required.
Newly appointed directors receive a formal induction tailored to the needs of the Group following good practice guidance.
On appointment directors receive information about the Group including the role of the Board and matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Boards committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures, the latest financial information about the Group, and training in the duties and responsibilities of directors of listed companies.
For non-executive directors, this is supplemented by meetings with executive directors and senior executives and visits to key locations with the opportunity to meet local management to assist in the process of learning about the business.
Throughout their period of office directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, corporate responsibility and sustainability matters and other changes affecting the Group, its markets, manufacturing technology, processes and the industry.
All directors have access to training in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors keep their skills and knowledge and their familiarity with the Group up to date in order to fulfil their roles on the Board and on Board committees.
The Company Secretary briefs the Board on corporate governance matters and relevant changes to corporate laws and regulations and facilitates professional development by regularly circulating details of and arranging attendance at seminars.
Executive directors also attend seminars on topics of particular relevance to their roles.
Performance Evaluation The Board conducts an annual review of its performance and that of its Committees and the individual directors.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, the review was undertaken for the first time by an external facilitator, Independent Audit Limited, a firm of specialist Board governance consultants.
The next externally facilitated evaluation will be conducted during the year ended 31 March 2016.
The review conducted internally during the year was based on Independent Audits Thinking Board questionnaire platform, which was used to gather the views of the directors and certain key executives.
This provides a benchmark for year on year progress to be monitored.
The review covered key areas of Board and Committee performance including: i the Boards role: ii composition, skills and dynamics: iii the focus of the Boards work business drivers, strategy and risk: iv meetings: v information and decision making: and vi internal and external communications.
The Committee reviews considered their remit, membership, process and performance.
The Audit Committee review also included specific performance regarding financial reporting and audit.
The Board and Committee reviews were undertaken in December 2014 and January 2015 and the Company Secretary reported back the findings at the January Board meeting.
The overall assessment was that the Board and its Committees were performing well, and no high priority recommendations were made.
Greater engagement with cluster managers had been recommended in the previous years review.
To build on the success of the cluster manager presentations on divisional strategy and other key aspects of their business made at Board meetings during the year it was recommended that future presentations should focus on specific aspects of each divisions business to further enhance the directors understanding of the challenges faced.
A number of other themes were identified that should continue to improve the effectiveness of the Board including greater consideration of succession planning and more engagement between nonexecutive directors and staff at different levels of the businesses to develop better insight.
Progress on these matters will be periodically reviewed by the Board.
48 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness continued Drawing on the Board and Committee reviews and using individual director questionnaires the Chairman undertook a review of the performance of each of the directors.
The Senior Independent Director undertook a review of the performance of the Chairman after taking into account the views of all the directors.
The results of these individual reviews and any improvements or personal objectives were discussed with the relevant directors on a one to one basis.
Independent Audit Limited do not have any other connection with the Company.
Accountability Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its activities during the year under review and details of key considerations in relation to the financial statements are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 63 to 66.
The number of meetings of the Committee and attendance are given on page 43.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests - a situational conflict.
This is in addition to a duty to disclose any interest in an existing or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company a transactional conflict.
In accordance with the Act, the Companys Articles of Association contain a provision giving directors who have no interest in the matter, authority to approve such situational conflicts where appropriate.
A formal system and guidance for reporting any situational conflicts of interest to the Chairman and Company Secretary has been established in addition to the existing duty to notify the Board of any transactional conflicts.
Situational conflicts are considered by those directors who have no interest in the matter and they may impose conditions on any authorisation given.
Situational conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisation given are recorded in the Board minutes and a register of directors conflicts of interest.
In addition to the notification and authorisation system, the register of directors conflicts of interest is reviewed annually.
Remuneration Remuneration Committee and Policy The members of the Remuneration Committee and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its activities during the year under review and details of remuneration policy and directors remuneration packages are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 62.
Relations with Shareholders Dialogue with Shareholders The Company is committed to maintaining an effective dialogue with institutional and private investors.
Directors, normally the Chairman or Chief Executive and Finance Director, hold regular meetings with institutional investors at which the Companys past performance and strategy may be discussed.
The Board is provided with brokers reports, surveys on shareholders views and regular feedback from shareholder meetings.
During the year the Chairman has discussed the Companys governance and strategy with major shareholders and reported any issues or concerns raised at these meetings to the Board.
Non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and expect to attend meetings at their request.
Contact with institutional investors, financial analysts, brokers and the press is controlled and procedures are in place to ensure the proper disclosure of inside information in compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Code of Market Conduct.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
An individual resolution on each separate issue is proposed at the AGM including the Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders have the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and performance.
It is the Boards policy that all directors attend the AGM if at all possible and therefore in normal circumstances the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution and votes withheld are counted before the AGM and are made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on a show of hands.
A full breakdown of the voting results detailing the total number of votes for, against and votes withheld in respect of each resolution proposed is published after each AGM and general meeting.
