Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 73 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT During the year, the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of MJ Lamb as Chairman, with the appointment taking effect from the conclusion of the AGM held in April following Board approval of the appointment.
MJ Lamb did not attend the Committee meeting at which his appointment was considered.
MJ Lambs appointment as non-executive Director in 2014 was externally facilitated by Korn Ferry, an external search consultancy, in a process which contemplated his subsequent appointment as Chairman, subject to satisfactory performance.
Korn Ferry has no other connection with the Company.
The Committee also considered succession planning in order to satisfy itself that plans are in place for an orderly succession for appointments to the Board and senior management to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Group and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
Further action on succession planning in the context of the Groups strategic objectives will constitute the main focus for the Committee in 2016, with constructive initial dialogue between the non-executive Directors having taken place following the Committee meeting in November 2015, at which the FRC discussion paper on board succession Martin Lamb planning was discussed.
Nomination Committee Chairman Members: Peter France, John Nicholas, Diversity policy Sally James, Gary Bullard and Lucinda Bell As part of its commitment to maintaining an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience, the Board seeks to attain a diverse mix of skills, experience, knowledge and background.
In considering diversity, The Nomination Committee is responsible for leading gender will play an important role but the Board will take the process for Board appointments and making account of ethnicity, nationality, background, profession recommendations to the Board: ensuring succession and personality.
planning is in place: regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, including its balance of skills, Rotork currently has 25% female representation on the knowledge and experience: and making recommendations Board, in line with the recommendations of Lord Davies as appropriate.
The Board is cognisant of the 'next step recommendations' set out in Lord Davies five Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year year summary report published in October 2015.
The Committee met three times during the year in February, March and November.
A summary of principal The Board will take a number of voluntary actions to activities is set out below: improve diversity, including only using external search consultants where such consultants are engaged to make Summary of 2015 Nomination Committee business an appointment which have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and assisting Appointment Recommendation that MJ Lamb be the development of the executive pipeline by encouraging recommendation appointed as Chairman senior employees to take on additional roles, such as Succession Consideration of paper from the seeking non-executive director roles, to gain valuable planning Chief Executive on executive board experience.
succession planning The Boards diversity policy also applies more generally Consideration of paper from throughout the Group and sets out other actions the Group the Group Finance Director on will take to contribute to a more diverse pool of talent.
future development of the Groups internal finance function and related appointments Consideration of FRC discussion paper on board succession planning
