D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt t C Cor om pm ora itt te e g e r o e vp eor rnt a snc e Audit Committee AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED At a glance: Area of focus Matters considered Outcome The appropriateness of accounting policies and key accounting judgements The accounting policies and key judgements and Financial and estimates, including: estimates are appropriate and key estimates used reporting arebalanced.
reversal of impairment on contractual aftermarket rights: estimates used in accounting for long-term contractual arrangements, The Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced including the regular review of the methodologies for taking account of andunderstandable.
uncertainties in these estimates and the financial impact: Recommended that the Group should seek, as far as impairment of goodwill in Marine: possible, to implement IFRS 15 in a way which adequacy of warranty provisions in Marine: appropriately reflects the underlying business drivers and carrying value of goodwill in Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG: and the interpretations of other aerospace and defence disclosures of contingent liabilities.
The form and content of the 2015 Annual Report.
The requirements and necessary judgements of IFRS 15 Revenuefrom Contracts with Customers.
Improvements to the risk management and internal controls systems Appropriate procedures are in place to identify and Risk and toaddress new requirements of the Code.
manage principal risks and all of these have been subject control to a review by the Board or an appropriate Board environment Managements assessment of the risk of a disruptive event.
The procedures for monitoring and combatting breaches of the IT system.
Appropriate procedures are in place to manage business continuity and cyber-security risks.
The processes for identifying and managingrisks.
The internal control system is sufficient to meet the The model for assessing the effectiveness of the Groups systems requirements of the Code.
It will continue to be enhanced ofinternalcontrol.
The process and assumptions underlying the viability statement.
Reported to the Board that an appropriate process isinplace to make the viability statement.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function, its key findings and trends The scope, extent and effectiveness of internal audit Internal audit arising, and the resolution of these matters.
The approach and scope of external audit and the effectiveness and Assessed KPMG as effective and independent and External audit independence of the external auditor.
recommended their re-appointment at the 2016 AGM.
Agreed plan to tender the audit during 2016, with Plans for the tendering of the external audit to meet the requirements newauditor to be appointed to report in the 2018 oftheEU directive.
The extent of non-audit services provided by KPMG.
No concerns over the nature and scale of the non-audit services provided.
92 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Committee reports Audit Committee Nuclear business key business risks including the future ofthe UK Operation of the committee submarine programme, government relations, new programmes, The committees responsibilities are outlined in its terms of reference and product safety : growth in civil nuclear markets: accounting which can be found in the Board governance document on the Groups policies and key accounting estimates which principally relate to website.
We review these annually and refer them to the Board for accounting for long-term contracts : and controls.
During 2015, we made revisions to clarify our interaction Power Systems key business risks including competitor actions, with other committees in meeting the requirements of the Code.
the low oil price, and warranties : new programme developments: accounting policies: key accounting estimates largely relating to Following the changes agreed in 2014, which gave us additional warranty provisions and controls.
responsibilities for the oversight of risk management, the committee has worked closely with the Director of Risk to enhance Director of Tax approach to managing the Groups tax affairs: the Groups risk management system.
keytax risks and how they are managed with specific consideration of customs duties : effective tax rate: UK tax position: and key As described on page 66, the performance of the committee was tax-related accounting policies and judgements.
independently assessed in 2014, with a follow-up in 2015.
Sector audit committees Financial reporting In support of our work, each of the Groups businesses has its own We place considerable emphasis on making sure that the accounting sector audit committee, each of which comprises senior finance policies are appropriate and are consistently applied so that the personnel and is attended by KPMG.
These committees: financial statements faithfully represent the results and financial allow the review of accounting policies and their consistent position of the Group and its underlying contractual arrangements.
application, risk management, internal systems and issues arising Given the long-term nature of the Groups businesses, most of the at a more detailed level: accounting policies subject to significant judgement do not change significantly year-on-year.
However, the facts and circumstances on give us further assurance as to the extent of management control which those judgements are based do vary over time, with a and accountability: consequential impact on the application of the policies.
The key promote the governance culture within the Group: and areas of focus in 2015 are set out in the table overleaf.
In part, these inform areas for further consideration at our meetings.
reflect the current weak trading conditions in Marine.
Overall, we In 2015, additional committees were established to cover central are satisfied that the judgements and estimates made are balanced.
functions including group finance, treasury, tax, transaction During the year, we discussed the requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue processing shared-service centres, property, human resources, from Contracts with Customers, which will be applicable for 2018. engineering and technology, information technology, and our This new standard will have a significant impact on our accounting regional offices.
These additional committees provide assurance policies for revenue recognition in our Civil Aerospace business.
that all key areas are covered.
Inparticular, they consider issues TheGroup is consulting with other companies in the aerospace arising from the interactions between the businesses and central anddefence sector, and we will take account of other functions.
All the committees meet twice a year to consider the interpretations in our implementation of the new requirements.
accounting policies, judgements and estimates and the internal This is discussed further in the accounting policies on page 121. control environment.
They are chaired bythe Director of Internal Audit, who then reports to us.
Since the year end, we have reviewed the form and content of the Groups 2015 Annual Report together with the processes used In 2015, the sector audit committees have focused on internal control toprepare and verify it.
We have reported to the Board that, taken and risk management processes in support of the new requirements asawhole, we consider the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and of the Code.
We expect this to continue in 2016, as we seek to enhance understandable.
We further believe the Annual Report provides these processes, making them as effective and efficient aspossible.
thenecessary information for shareholders to adequately assess Business and function presentations theCompanys performance, business model and strategy.
We have a regular schedule of presentations from each of the The Group is also implementing a new management information Groups businesses and its key functions.
During 2015, we received system covering both financial and non-financial information.
presentations from the following: Thecommittee strongly supports this initiative and is reviewing Civil Aerospace business key business risks including theprogress of this project to ensure that it provides improvements majorproduct failure, on-time and profitable delivery of new in the information used to manage the business.
programmes, business continuity risks including supply chain disruption and market shock due to external events or factors reducing air travel : accounting policies: key accounting judgements, estimates and controls: credit risks associated withcustomers: and TotalCare and CorporateCare accounting.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 93 D D Di i ir r re e ec c ct t to o or r rs s s R R Re e ep p po o or r rt t t C Cor om pm ora itt te e g e r o e vp eor rnt a snc e Audit Committee AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key issues Matters considered Outcome Reversal of impairment on contractual The background to the impairment charges originally made We are satisfied that this is an appropriate aftermarket rights on certain Trent 1000 contractual aftermarket rights and judgement.
We paid particular attention to the thereasons and supporting evidence as to why it is considered requirements of accounting standards and to the that the circumstances have changed, requiring the reversal engineering assessment of the improved outlook of thesecharges.
for the cost of maintaining these engines.
The assessments of the value-in-use of the principal We are satisfied that there were no indications Indications of impairment of the intangible assets, including the key assumptions and ofimpairment.
carrying values of intangible assets estimates onwhich they are based.
inCivil Aerospace The estimates used in accounting for The basis on which the estimates are prepared and, We are satisfied that the process produces long-term contractual arrangements inparticular, how the inherent uncertainties are reflected balanced estimates, with appropriate inCivil Aerospace are appropriate in these estimates.
In 2015, as we had agreed in 2012, the methodologies Refinements to the methodologies as a result toreflect risk, current experience and expected long-term ofthe review, resulted in a one-off profit benefit performance were reviewed.
The sale of engines to joint ventures The basis for assessing the selling price.
We are satisfied that the price represents the fairvalue of the engines.
Impairment of goodwill in Marine The forecasts for each of the relevant cash generating units, We are satisfied with the analysis and that including the key assumptions on which they arebased.
impairments should be recognised where these did not support the carrying value of the goodwill.
Whether there is any impairment The business plan, and the underlying assumptions We are satisfied that, although the headroom has tothecarrying value of the goodwill onwhichitisbased.
reduced as a result of the current trading inRolls-Royce Power Systems AG environment, there is no indication of impairment.
Warranty and contractual provisions The basis for specific warranty and contractual provisions, We are satisfied that the estimates reflect inMarine including those established in 2014 and 2015 for product abalanced assessment of the likelyoutcome.
The disclosures of contingent liabilities, Legal advice received in respect of the SFO enquiries.
Weare satisfied that the disclosures appropriately in particular those in respect of the reflect thecurrent position.
possible outcome of the SFO enquiries, are adequate This process and the principal risks arising then formed the basis Risk and control environment forour assessment of the going concern and viability statements which are discussed later in this report.
As described on page 54, Assessment of principal risks theprocesses are designed toidentify and manage, rather than Risk management is fundamental and forms an integral part ofhow eliminate, the risk offailure toachieve our business objectives.
All risks are managed through a risk management system We satisfied ourselves that the processes for identifying described on page 54 in accordance with policies andguidance andmanaging the principal risks are appropriate and that all risks established by the Director of Risk and his team andapproved by the and mitigating actions had been subject, during the year, to a Board.
The new requirements of the Code haveprovided a catalyst to detailed review by the Board or an appropriate committee.
Based review and enhance these, to improve Boardoversight and to enable onthis and on our other activities including consideration of the continuous monitoring within the businesses.
Onbehalf ofthe work of internal and external audit and presentations from senior Board, we monitored this system and the enhancements.
management of each business which include risk management, In addition, as described in last years Annual Report, the Board wereported to the Board that a robust assessment of the principal allocated responsibility for reviewing certain principal risks to an risks facing the Company had been undertaken.
94 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Committee reports Audit Committee We also considered in detail the principal risks that have been We considered that the existing process, together with the allocated to us by the Board.
enhancements implemented to date, are sufficient to meet the requirements of the Code and the FCAs Disclosure Rules and Business continuity we reviewed managements contingency Transparency Rules and we concluded that the operation and plans in the event of a disruptive event, most particularly within monitoring of controls, including those relating to the financial theaero gas turbine supply chain, both external and internal.
reporting process, were effective during the year.
Work will Thesetake account of the likelihood of such an incident, its impact continue during 2016 to complete the definition and on the business and its likely duration, and the cost and availability documentation of the controls in the enhanced model.
The Group has an incident management framework in place, including a crisis management team to deal Judgement is required in evaluating the risks facing the Group in with any significant event.
achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable, in determining the likelihood of those risks IT vulnerability recent events make it clear that this is an materialising, in identifying the Groups ability to reduce the increasing issue for all companies, and particularly for Rolls-Royce incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise, given the nature of the data held.
During the year, we visited the and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are Groups security centre where we met with the senior IT security proportionate to the benefit provided.
During this visit, the Groups systems for preventing breaches of the IT system and procedures for monitoring and combatting The enhanced control model has been reviewed by the sector audit those arising were demonstrated.
Wediscussed with the team the committees and a summary by this committee.
Going forward, this evolving nature of cyber attacks and how its procedures are will be included in the presentations we receive from the Groups evolving in parallel.
During the year, a dashboard was developed businesses and key functions, giving us the opportunity to discuss tomonitor attacks and how they are dealt with.
and challenge the assessments and judgements underlying the internal control systems.
Market and financial shock as part of the decision to issue the US$1.5bn bond in October 2015, the Board considered the exposure The Group is also using this standardisation of the internal control ofthe Group to financial market risks including: foreign currency framework as an opportunity to improve the consistency of exchange rates: oil price: liquidity and credit risks: and reduction reporting, in particular from the Groups smaller operations.
inair travel or other disruption to customer operations.
The Board We paid particular attention to internal controls over financial also reviewed the Groups management of these risks.
As this area reporting and, mindful of the current business challenges the was subject to detailed review by the Board, we did not consider it Group is facing, have instigated, and will monitor progress in necessary to repeat this.
achieving, a wide-ranging plan to improve controls in this area.
Internal control The going concern and viability statements The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for the We reviewed the processes and assumptions underlying the Groups system of internal control over its business and risk statements set out on page 57.
In particular, we focused on the new management processes and the risks identified through the risk viability statement and considered: management process.
The committee has responsibility for reviewing the systems operation and effectiveness.
the consistency of the analysis ofrisk impact with that reviewed by the Board as part of its strategy review: The Group has a long-standing process for identifying risks and the assessment of the impact of individual risks, both in amount planning mitigating actions and for assessing the effectiveness of and timing: internal control.
In assessing the Code requirements, enhancements to the existing processes were identified.
We approved an enhanced the analysis of multiple risk impacts: and model for representing the system, comprising: the current financing in place and the availability of future financing.
entity-level controls covering leadership and direction from the top: and As a result, we were satisfied that the viability statement had been prepared on an appropriate basis.
specific control activities, covering detailed process controls, andinternal and external assurance activities.
This model was then populated and the operation and effectiveness of the controls rated.
This commenced in 2015 and prioritised: entity-level controls: controls over principal risks as described on pages 55 and 56: controls over key risks and critical processes for each of the Groups business: and core financial controls.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 95 D D Di i ir r re e ec c ct t to o or r rs s s R R Re e ep p po o or r rt t t C Cor om pm ora itt te e g e r o e vp eor rnt a snc e Audit Committee AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal audit External auditor We receive a quarterly dashboard from the Director of Internal 2015 audit Audit identifying key trends and findings of internal audit reports, During the year, KPMG presented the audit strategy, which identified and the resolution of actions agreed.
Twice a year, we review their assessment of the key audit risks and the proposed scope of audit detailed updates of significant findings.
In particular, we review the work.
We agreed the approach and scope of audit work to be undertaken.
nature and number of issues raised by internal audit and the time Key risks and the audit approach to these risks are discussed in the to complete the related actions, which during 2015 we considered Independent Auditors report pages 167 to 174, which also highlights tobe reasonable.
the other significant risks that KPMG drew to our attention.
Increasing focus has been put on identifying the root causes of We also undertook an assessment of KPMGs qualifications, expertise unsatisfactory internal audit reports, both to consider whether and resources, independence and the effectiveness of the external there are any systemic areas of concern in the Groups control audit process.
Wereviewed the fees of the external auditor.
Our environment and to inform the development of future internal conclusions were that the external audit was carried out effectively, audit planning.
efficiently and with the necessary objectivity and independence.
The committee considered and reviewed the effectiveness of the As part of the reporting of the half and full-year results, in July 2015 Groups internal audit function, including internal audit resources, and February 2016, KPMG reported to the committee on their plans and performance as well as the functions interaction with assessment of the Groups judgements and estimates in respect management.
The outcome of the 2014 review of the audit function ofthese risks and the adequacy of the reporting.
KPMG also report provided a number of improvements and changes which have been on their assessment of the Groups control environment.
In particular, the recruitment process We continue to be supportive of the extended auditors report and has been improved to ensure that the function maintains adequate KPMGs approach which goes beyond the minimum requirements, resource to meet its objectives.
providing additional clarity on the key judgements and estimates.
I meet the Director of Internal Audit privately before each meeting I meet with the lead partner prior to each meeting and the whole and on an ad-hoc basis throughout the year, and the committee as committee has a private meeting with KPMG at least once a year.
awhole has a private meeting with him at least once a year.
These In2015, upon their appointments to the committee, Lee Hsien Yan, discussions cover the activities, findings, resolution of control Irene Dorner and Alan Davies had briefings with KPMG.
weaknesses, progress against the agreed plan and the resourcing ofthe department.
Reappointment of KPMG and audit tender process The committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board We were satisfied that the scope, extent and effectiveness of with regard to the reappointment of the external auditor.
In doing internal audit work are appropriate for the Group and that there so, we take into account auditor independence and audit partner isasound plan for ensuring that this continues to be the case rotation.
KPMG were appointed as auditors in 1990 and we have not asourbusiness progresses and risks change.
No contractual obligations restrict our choice of external auditor.
The lead audit partner is required torotate every five years and other key audit partners are required to rotate every seven years.
Jimmy Daboo took over as lead audit partner in 2013, and will be required to rotate after the 2018 AGM.
The committee and the Board have recommended KPMGs re-appointment at the 2016 AGM.
The new EU directive requires us to appoint a different auditor nolater than 2020.
During 2015, we have considered the plans for meeting these requirements.
We believe that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to allow an appropriate period for the new auditor to build up a detailed knowledge of the business.
Atender of the audit will be undertaken during 2016.
The new auditor will then be appointed at the 2018 AGM and provide its first auditors report in the 2018 Annual Report.
96 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Committee reports Audit Committee The Committee considers that the Company has, throughout Looking forward theyear ended 31 December 2015, complied with the provisions ofthe The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market The introduction of the recent changes to the Code has increased the Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes focus of the committee on business risk, which continues to be andAudit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. ahigh profile topic in boardrooms.
During 2015, we have made significant progress in developing further the existing processes Non-audit services provided by KPMG forrisk management and internal controls.
However, webelieve that In order to safeguard auditors independence and objectivity, we do that this is a continuous activity of improvement to the underlying not engage KPMG for any non-audit services except where it is work processes, making them as effective and efficient aspossible and that they must, or are clearly best suited to, perform.
Fees paid to ensuring that they are fully embedded as part ofbusiness-as-usual KPMG for audit, audit-related and other services are set out in note 8 activities.
In championing this in 2016 and beyond, we will ensure to the Financial Statements and summarised below.
that the Board, its committees and senior management have a sound basis for understanding the principal risks in the Group, All proposed services must be pre-approved in accordance with the assurance that they are being managed effectively and that the non-audit services policy which is reviewed and approved annually.
internal controls are appropriate and areoperating effectively.
Above defined levels, my pre-approval is required.
The committee also reviews the non-audit fees charged by KPMGquarterly.
We will continue to monitor the key accounting judgements and estimates, focusing on ensuring consistent application across Non-audit related fees paid to KPMG during the year were 29% 2014: theGroup.
In particular, we will review the accounting impact of the 39% of the audit fee.
Our annual review of the external auditor takes transition in the Civil Aerospace business from mainly linked to into account the nature and level of all services provided.
2015 2014 During 2016, we will also continue to review the development of the m % m % plans to implement IFRS 15 in 2018.
Audit 5.9 5.7 Audit-related 1.3 22 1.1 19 We will also continue to review the implementation of the improved Tax compliance 0.4 7 0.7 12 management information system, ensuring that this will provide Other 0.4 7 arobust basis for the management of the business and will support Non-audit 1.7 29 2.2 39 high quality analysis and will monitor progress on the internal financial control improvement programme.
Based on our review of the services provided by KPMG and As noted above, we plan to tender the audit in 2016 and this will be discussion with the lead audit partner, we concluded that neither a significant activity for both the committee and management.
the nature nor the scale of these services gave any concerns Wewill ensure that the selection of the new auditor is based regarding the objectivity or independence of KPMG.
onarobust assessment, focusing on the qualities of the proposed audit team and their understanding of our business.
As this process As part of the EU audit reform, further restrictions will be placed on develops, our attention willalso turn to ensuring that there auditors undertaking non-audit services from 2017.
In the UK, these isaseamless transition from KPMG to the new auditor.
will be implemented by the Financial Reporting Council, which is expected to publish the final requirements in the first half of 2016.
Lewis Booth We will continue to monitor developments in this area and make Chairman of the Audit Committee amendments asnecessary to the policy.
We have also put in place additional procedures to monitor engagements with potential future auditors to ensure that, following the tender process, wecandiscontinue ortransition any engagements as required.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 97 Directors Report Committee reports Safety & Ethics Committee SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT Highlights Successful migration to a single Safety & Ethics Committee Product safety management system effective in responding to incidents in service Key HS&E global improvement programmes delivering results Good progress with the ethics and compliance improvement programme,  of a global local ethics adviser network Aerospace and Defense industry leader in Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2015 2015 overview Introduction Principal responsibilities On 1 January 2015 the Groups separate Under its wide remit, the committees t o review reports on risks in relation Safety and Ethics Committees combined responsibilities include: toproducts not meeting safety to become one committee.
expectations: t o maintain an understanding of and t o review reports on health and safety The committee assists the Board in keep under review the Groups risk and proposed actions to manage fulfilling its oversight responsibilities frameworks for the effective governance suchrisks: inrespect of safety and ethics matters, of safety and ethics and the Groups which include: product safety: HS&E culture in these areas: t o review remedial actions and lessons occupational health, process safety, learned in relation to material t o oversee and review annually the assetintegrity, personal security and investigations: Groups key safety and ethics policies, theenvironment : sustainability: including: the Global Code of Conduct, t o review disciplinary action taken andethics business ethics, anti-bribery anti-bribery and corruption and export following safety and ethics concerns: and and corruption and export controls controls, fraud, product safety, HS&E compliance.
It has been allocated t o keep under review the key andsustainability policies, and ensuring responsibility on behalf of the Board performance indicators in relation appropriate independent scrutiny foroverseeing the Groups principal risks tosafety and ethics.
ofpolicies and practices: ofproduct failure and compliance The committee regularly reports to the t o review the Groups compliance seepages 54 to 56.
Board and refers any concerns about withrelevant legislation, regulation possible financial improprieties tothe In addition to its oversight role for the andmake recommendations in the Audit Committee.
Board, the committee supports keypolicy areas: management in its aim to create, promote The Director Engineering & Technology, t o oversee training in respect of safety and maintain an ethical, compliant, General Counsel, Director ofRisk and and ethics, including ensuring adequate safety-conscious,  other senior safety and risk executives arrangements exist to enable employees and socially-responsible culture across attend committee meetings.
and contractors to raise concerns, theGroup as a means of delivering its inconfidence: During the year the committee reviewed safety and ethics goals.
its terms of reference and recommended t o review reports on issues raised through certain changes to reflect its oversight of the Ethics Line and review theresults ofany the Companys strengthened commitment investigations into ethical or compliance tosustainability.
The terms of reference for breaches orallegations of misconduct: the committee are available in the Board governance document available onthe Groups website.
98 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
