Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT During 2015, in addition to its usual schedule of work, the Committee focused on three key elements: The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit processes, which was supported by an independent quality assessment by PwC: Contribution to the Risk Appetite Framework and wider review of the Groups risk management and internal controls: and Consideration of the longer term Viability Statement mandated by the revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The membership of the Committee was unchanged during the year, save for the resignation of MJ Lamb from the Committee following his appointment as Chairman in April 2015.
All Committee members are independent non-executive directors.
LM Bell and JE Nicholas hold professional accounting qualifications and the Board considers both to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies of each member of the Committee can be found on pages 60 to 61.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Internal Audit Coordinator and external Auditor also regularly attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee operates under formal Terms of Reference which are reviewed annually.
A copy of the Terms of Reference Sally James is available on the Rotork website at www.
Audit Committee Chairman Principal responsibilities are to review and report to the Members: John Nicholas, Gary Bullard Board on: and Lucinda Bell The integrity of financial reporting: Significant accounting policies and judgements: Internal control and risk management systems including Activities of the Audit Committee during the year monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit: The Audit Committee maintains a rolling programme of The appointment, independence and effectiveness of the activities which is kept under review and forms the basis of external Auditor, including the policy relating to nonits scheduled meetings throughout the year.
This rolling audit work and policy relating to employment of former programme is supplemented by consideration of specific staff of the external Auditor: issues as and when they arise.
The Committee met six times The external Auditors remuneration: and during the year once in February, April, July and August Whistleblowing and other Group policies as relevant.
Meetings of the Committee are arranged to coordinate with the Groups financial reporting timetable to ensure appropriate scrutiny by the Committee of such announcements, including, in particular, review of year end and interim financial reports, in addition to other trading updates made during the year.
A summary of its principal activities is set out on page 70.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 70 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Summary of 2015 Audit Committee business Financial reporting Review of the full year accounts including material judgements and estimates, the draft Annual Report 2014, governance reports and draft results announcements Review of Interim Report including material judgements, estimates and draft results announcements Review of the external Auditors report on the half year accounts and the proposed full year external audit scope, key risks, materiality and year end issues Review of quarterly trading updates Internal controls and risk Internal controls and risk management review including consideration of processes and management procedures for risk management, effectiveness of internal controls and fraud risk Review of internal audit reports, the internal audit programme, its remit, resourcing and effectiveness, and of the need for a separate internal audit function Commissioning and review of PwCs independent quality assessment in respect of the Groups internal audit function PwC Report Review of recommendations from the PwC Report and agreement to take these forward led by a Head of Risk and Internal Audit, a new senior appointment External audit Consideration of, and reporting to, the Board on the external Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness including the annual audit Review of the Auditors representation letter, views on the control environment and fraud risk management Meeting with the external Auditor without the presence of management Review of non-audit services undertaken by the external Auditor and consideration of policy on non-audit work Consideration of audit fees, engagement terms and risk of the external Auditor leaving the market Consideration of retendering the external audit contract Review of policies on the employment of ex-employees of the external Auditor Other work Review of bribery and corruption policy and procedures including training and communication Review of the whistleblowing policy and procedures including training and communication Consideration of accounting and corporate governance developments Review of Audit Committee effectiveness and Terms of Reference Introduction of requirement for annual presentations to the Committee from the Group Treasurer and Head of Tax Financial reporting A key role of the Committee in relation to financial The principal matters of judgement considered by the reporting is to review the quality and appropriateness of Committee in relation to the 2015 accounts and how they the half year and year end financial statements with a were addressed were: particular focus on: Goodwill impairment testing: The year end balance sheet Accounting policies and practices: includes goodwill of 222.1m, this represents The clarity of disclosures and compliance with approximately 31.7% of the Groups assets.
The International Financial Reporting Standards, UK Committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill by company law and the Code: examining a report from the Group Financial Controller Material areas in which significant judgements have been which set out the values attributable to each cash applied or, where there has been discussion with the generating unit, the expected value in use, based on external Auditor: and projected cash flows and the key economic assumptions Upon request of the Board, advising the Board on related to growth and discount rates.
The Committee whether the Annual Report and financial statements are also considered the work undertaken by Deloitte in fair, balanced and understandable and provide the testing the assumptions.
The Committee discussed the information necessary for shareholders to assess the appropriateness of the assumptions used and compared Companys performance as a whole.
expected growth rates to historical averages and the discount rate to the Group weighted average cost of To assist the Committee, the Group Finance Director and capital and appropriate risk premiums.
The Committee Group Financial Controller present a detailed report at each also considered whether it was possible that a meeting outlining significant matters and the external reasonable change in assumptions might indicate Auditor presents a report on the work they have impairment.
Following discussion, the Committee were undertaken on the half year and year end financial satisfied that the approach taken by management was statements.
They also present on the scope for the next full appropriate and that there was no requirement to record year audit for consideration by the Committee.
any impairments in the accounts: Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 71 Acquired intangible assets: During 2015, the Group During the year, the 2014 external audit of the Group was acquired a number of businesses, the largest of which subject to review by the FRCs AQR team.
There were no was Bifold Group Ltd, which was acquired in August.
significant findings and only one issue was formally The Committee reviewed the accounting and reporting reported.
The final report and the action to address the in relation to these acquisitions, in particular the reported finding was discussed and agreed at the determination and valuation of intangible assets November Committee meeting, and has been addressed in prepared by the Group Financial Controller.
The Committee is satisfied that Committee considered this report together with there was nothing arising from the FRC review which comments from Deloitte: it also examined the disclosures impacted the proposed reappointment of Deloitte as in the Annual Report and Accounts and concluded the external Auditors.
judgements made were reasonable and that the reporting was accurate: Consideration was given to the possibility of retendering Retirement benefit schemes: The Group operates two the external work during the course of the year.
The Audit defined benefit retirement plans which are still open to Committee has recommended that Deloitte LLP be refuture accrual.
The valuations are prepared by appointed Auditors for the 2016 financial year and Deloittes independent actuaries and are reviewed by Deloitte.
continuing appointment will be subject to shareholder The Committee considered the report and the comments approval at the 2016 AGM.
by Deloitte and was satisfied the assumptions used were appropriate.
The detailed disclosure for these schemes Statement of compliance under IAS19 are shown in note 24 and the Committee is The Company confirms that it has complied with the terms satisfied they are complete and accurate: and of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Valuation of inventory: The Group has 87.2m of Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender inventory which is spread across all of the Groups Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order global locations.
The provisions made to write down 2014 the Order throughout the year.
slow-moving and obsolete inventory are based on an assessment of market developments and on an analysis In addition to requiring mandatory audit retendering at of historic and projected usage.
The calculation of least every 10 years for FTSE 350 companies, the Order the provisions requires application of judgement by provides that only the Committee, acting collectively or management.
Management confirmed to the Committee through its Chairman, and for and on behalf of the Board, that there have been no significant changes to the is permitted: approach used to estimate inventory provisions To the extent permissible by law and regulations, to compared with the prior year.
Deloitte explained the negotiate and agree the statutory audit fee and the work that they have performed and confirmed that scope of the statutory audit: based on this work no material inconsistencies or To initiate and supervise a competitive tender process: misstatements were found.
Following discussion, To make recommendations to the Directors as to the the Committee was satisfied that the judgements that auditor appointment pursuant to a competitive tender had been exercised and valuation methodology were process: appropriate and that the provisions were appropriately To influence the appointment of the audit engagement stated at year end.
partner: and To authorise an auditor to provide any non-audit services External Auditor to the Group, prior to the commencement of those The year under review marks the second year during non-audit services.
which Deloitte LLP has been the Groups external Auditor.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external Non-audit services audit process, the scope of the Group audit and the quality In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of of the audit work throughout the year.
the external Auditor, the Board has adopted a policy on non-audit services which restricts the work and fees The assessment considers: available to the external audit firm and the policy is Any issues arising from the prior year audit: reviewed by the Committee annually to ensure it remains The proposed audit plan including identification of risks appropriate and in line with applicable requirements.
specific to Rotork: Audit scope and materiality thresholds: The policy specifies certain activities which the external Staffing continuity and experience: Auditor may not undertake, such as work relating to The delivery of the audit in line with the plan: financial statements which may be subject to external Matters arising during the audit and the communication audits or management, or significant involvement with of these to the Committee: internal audit services.
Feedback from executive management: Private meetings with the Auditor without management For work within the policy scope, namely anything other being present: than audit, half year review or tax compliance work, The independence, objectivity and scepticism of the authority has been delegated to the Group Finance Director auditor: and to approve fees of up to 10,000 per project or 40,000 in The Financial Reporting Council FRC audit quality aggregate for general work, 50,000 in aggregate for tax review AQR report on selected audits undertaken work and 10,000 for acquisition related work.
work above these levels requires the prior approval of the Committee Chairman or the Committee as a whole.
Having completed this review, the Committee agreed that the audit process, independence and quality of the external At each Committee meeting, a summary is provided of all audit were satisfactory.
non-audit services awarded to the external Auditor during the year.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 72 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte, including the split The PwC report highlighted a number of improvements between audit and non-audit is included in note 8 of the which could be made to the methodology and structure of report and accounts.
The total non-audit fees for 2015 the internal audit, including the appointment of a new Head represent 8.9% of the total Deloitte audit fee.
of Risk and Internal Audit.
These recommendations are being implemented, including the recruitment of a new Risk management Head of Risk and Internal Audit.
This recruitment has been The Committee has responsibility for reviewing and completed and the position will be filled in April 2016.
The monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups control Head of Risk and Internal Audit will be supported by the environment, internal audit and risk management process.
Internal Audit Coordinator who was appointed in 2014.
As explained in the Corporate Governance Report, this year During the year, the internal audit coordinator has initiated has seen particular focus on the Groups approach to risk improvements to the reports to the Committee and the and its internal control environment.
reports issued to management on completion of an audit as well as introduced a risk based assessment to setting the In the final quarter of 2014, the Audit Committee audit visit plan.
These improvements will be developed commenced work with the Board on a review of the Groups further in the coming year.
internal control and risk management systems in order to comply with the Code, which provides that the Board The Group does not have an independent internal audit should undertake a robust assessment of the principal risks function but does have a well established internal audit facing the Group and monitor the Groups risk management approach, using staff from one division to undertake audits and internal controls.
This arrangement encourages the sharing of best practice and provides career development This work continued into 2015, and was led by me, as Chair for the staff involved.
External resource was used during the of the Audit Committee in conjunction with the Group year to supplement the internal team where specific Finance Director.
The key outputs of the work, comprising a technical or language expertise was required.
Risk Appetite Framework and new reporting procedures are summarised in the Corporate Governance Report on pages Whilst the Audit Committee is satisfied that this 'peer 62 to 68, with the result that both the Audit Committee and review' model remains appropriate for the Groups current the Board are satisfied that the Company was in compliance internal audit objectives, it has noted PwCs observations with the requirements of the revised Code with regard to that an independent function may be warranted in the risk management during the fourth quarter of 2015. future.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee will, as in previous years, keep the need for an internal audit function under The Audit Committee will be primarily responsible for close review.
The Head of Risk and Internal Audit will, oversight and review of the new reporting frameworks however, provide increased independence and strategic which have been introduced in order to ensure that these direction whilst the peer review model is retained.
operate effectively during their first full year of implementation.
Alongside the PwC review and oversight of the implementation of its recommendations, the Committee Internal controls continued to receive a report at each meeting on internal The second area of focus was on improving the quality of audit activity, any significant matters arising and the the Groups internal control procedures.
The steps taken to management response.
improve the Groups internal controls during the year are summarised on pages 67 to 68.
Other matters In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee, During the year, the Committee considered reports on led by the Chairman, carried out a review of its effectiveness internal control from the Group Finance Director as well as by way of a questionnaire, including how it discharged its reports on procedures to prevent bribery and corruption responsibilities and Terms of Reference.
Following this and whistleblowing events from the Company Secretary.
review, a number of actions will be undertaken during 2016 to improve the Committees effectiveness.
Internal audit The final area of focus was on improving the quality of the The Committees activities were also reviewed as part of the Groups internal audit processes.
PwC was commissioned to Board evaluation process referred to on page 67. produce an independent quality assessment into the Groups internal audit function.
PwCs review was Throughout the year, the Committee also considered undertaken through a series of one to one interviews with relevant accounting and corporate governance relevant personnel, peer comparison and review of internal developments, in addition to those in relation to risk and audit procedure documentation.
Areas of focus for 2016 In the coming year, further development of the internal control environment and risk management processes will remain a priority.
Increasing the resources and expertise in this area through the appointment of a Head of Risk and Internal Audit is the next step in this evolution.
