Governance The nomination committee report John Manser Chairman of the nomination committee The committee also used the services of external consultants, During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Heidrick & Struggles and JCA Group, in the appointment of JohnManser, with Geoff Bible, Guy Elliott, John Manzoni, TrevorManuel and Javier Ferrn respectively.
Again strong Alejandro Santo Domingo and Helen Weir being members shortlists were produced from which Trevor Manuel and throughout the year.
Miles Morland served on the committee until Javier Ferrn were chosen, both of whom the committee hisretirement on 24 July 2014.
Jan du Plessis joined the committee regards as outstanding candidates.
on his appointment as a director on 1 September 2014.
John Manser and John Manzoni will step down from the committee Neither JCA Group nor Heidrick & Struggles has any other on their retirement on 23July 2015, after which Jan du Plessis will connection with the group, except that JCA Group has been become chairman.
retained to assist in the process of appointing a permanent Chief Financial Officer, and certain offices of Heidrick &Struggles The committee considers the composition of the board and its have been retained previously by various group companies committees, and the retirement, appointment and replacement of to assist in executive recruitment in one or morecountries at directors, and makes appropriate recommendations to the board.
levels below the executive committee.
The nomination committee has continued to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board and remains committed to the progressive renewal of the board to ensure Tenure of the board as at 31 March 2015 orderly succession.
02 years 3 The committee considers diversity in terms of age, experience, 24 years 3 gender and balance of skills when making appointments to the 46 years 3 board.
Five of the last 11 independent non-executive directors 6 years 6 appointed to the board were women, and currently three out ofeight of the companys independent non-executive directors are women.
The board comprises members from diverse backgrounds and nationalities.
The committee believes that thecompany is well positioned in terms of the future balance ofthe board.
Balance of the board as at 31 March 2015 Where vacancies arise, the committee prepares a description Chairman 1 ofthe role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Executive director 1 Independent non-executives 8 Appropriate succession plans for the non-executive directors, Nominated non-executives 5 executive directors, and senior management are also kept under close review.
Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee may use external consultants to identify suitable candidates for the board to consider.
During the year the committee successfully Background of the board members as at 31 March 2015 concluded the search for a new Chairmanand two other independent non-executive directors.
Inrespect of the Chairman, British 6 an external search firm, JCA Group, was retained.
It produced South African 3 a strong list of candidates, a number ofwhom were shortlisted Colombian 2 for consideration by the nomination committee on the basis of American 1 their relevant skills and experience.
As a resultJan du Plessis Australian 1 was recommended for appointment on thebasis of his Indian 1 considerable experience and ability.
Zambian 1 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 63
