Governance Corporate governance Dear Shareholder This report describes how our board applies the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and its general approach to corporate governance.
I believe the purpose of governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management to deliver the long-term success of the company.
The role of the board is to oversee the governance of the company, setting strategy, providing leadership, supervising management and reporting to shareholders onstewardship.
In some ways, this has been a year of transition for the board, followinga number of membership changes, withthe expected election of new directors at the annual general meeting and recruiting a new chief financial officer.
I am confident that with Jan du Plessis assuming his role as my successor it will bea smooth and successful transition.
John Manser Looking back on my time as Chairman, I am delighted to say Chairman that theboard has functioned effectively, with members working well together, and providing appropriate challenge and support to management.
Theyears board evaluation, carried out by our Deputy Chairman Guy Elliott and our Group Company Secretary, supported such impressions.
However, as discussed below, it also showed we should think further about senior executive succession planning and talent development, and should ensure that the board makes enough time to focus on crucial issues.
As noted below, it also suggested that we review the terms of reference of the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC.
Our full board membership is set out in this report.
In summary, movements to and from the board this year were the retirement of Miles Morland on 24 July 2014, the resignation of Jamie Wilson as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 18 February 2015, and the appointment of Jan du Plessis on 1 September 2014 and of Trevor Manuel on 1 March 2015.
Javier Ferrn and Dave Beran will be standing for election at the annual general meeting on 23 July Our board follows the main 2015, on which date John Manzoni, Howard Willard and I will retire.
recommendations of the Code in Board and management succession has been an important focus during the year, and the board is very conscious that ensuring high terms of the responsibilities of the quality managers and directors lead the company into the future key committees the nomination is one of our most important functions.
committee, the audit committee Our board follows the main recommendations of the Code in terms of and the remuneration committee.
the responsibilities of the key committees the nomination committee, the audit committee and the remuneration committee.
However, However, governance is about governance is about much more than the board and its committees.
much more than the board and its Executive management, and indeed all our employees, have a part to play in setting and complying with our policies and ethical standards.
Executive management, Our audit committee has particular oversight of ouranti-bribery and and indeed all our employees, whistleblowing policies and their implementation, and the CARAC has overseen the launch of Prosper, our new sustainable development have a part to play in setting ambition.
In 2014 the Code was revised with notable changes and complying with our policies including an increased focus on how risk is governed, managed and described, with new provisions on the robust assessment of solvency and ethical standards.
and liquidity, continuing monitoring of systems, and a statement on business viability.
We will be mindful of these as we review our systems and processes to ensure that we are in a good position to report in compliance with this enhanced disclosure in next years annual report.
John Manser Chairman 56 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015
