John Manser Chairman Member of: Corporate accountability Previous appointments: He was the 7.
Dinyar Devitre Non-Executive andrisk assurance committee Chief Financial Officer of Rio Tinto plc Director Appointed to the board: 1 June 2001 andRio Tinto Limited and the senior Executive committee Appointed to the board: 16 May 2007 John will be stepping down from the board independent director of Cadbury plc.
at the conclusion of the 2015 annual Skills and experience: Dinny brings both 3.
Jan du Plessis Independent Member of: Audit committee general meeting.
financial expertise and strategic counsel Non-Executive Director and Remuneration committee tothe group.
He has extensive experience Skills and experience: John was Chairman Designate of managing global fast-moving consumer appointed as Chairman in December 2013, Nomination committee Appointed to the board: goods corporations.
having been a non-executive director 1 September 2014 5.
He has a comprehensive Current appointments: A nominee Jan will become Chairman on 23 July 2015, Non-Executive Director understanding of the SABMiller group and ofAltria, he is a member of the board of replacing John Manser who is stepping Appointed to the board: 1 May 2010 of the global beverage industry.
He also Altria, a special adviser atGeneral Atlantic down at the conclusion of the 2015 Skills and experience: Mark brings has an extensive knowledge of the banking LLC, andadirector and chairman of the annual general meeting.
strategic and financial expertise to the and financial services industries and is an audit committee of Markit Group Ltd.
He Skills and experience: Jan has an board and has significant experience experienced chairman, having previously is also the Executive Chairman of Pratham excellent record as a chairman of major of managing an international group.
chaired the boards of a number of USA, serves as atrustee of the Brooklyn international groups with developing market listed companies.
Current appointments: He is a Academy of Musicand is a trustee footprints and a wealth of experience of non-executive director of Tesco plc, emeritus of the AsiaSociety.
Current appointments: He is the international consumer businesses.
andadirector of the Financial Reporting chairman of Hannam and Partners and Previous appointments: His career Current appointments: He is chairman Council, the UKs independent regulator thedeputy chairman of Marlborough with the Altria group of companies spans of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
responsible for promoting high quality College Council.
a 35 year period in which he served in Previous appointments: In his earlier corporate governance.
Before his Previous appointments: Previously the career he was Group Finance Director Previous appointments: He was retirement in2008, he served as the Senior chairman of Intermediate Capital Group plc, ofCompagnie Financire Richemont, previously Chief Financial Officer of Reed Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Shaftesbury PLC and deputy chairman theSwiss luxury goods group.
He was also a director and ofColliers CRE plc, he has also held a alsoserved as a non-executive director and Reed Elsevier in 1995 he was a partner chairmanof the Corporate Governance number of directorships in the financial subsequently chairman ofBritish American of Price Waterhouse in London.
and Public Policy Committee at Western services industry including chairman of Tobacco plc, as a non-executive director Union Company.
He is a former Member of: Audit committee Chairman and chairman of the audit committee member of the Presidents Committee of Remuneration committee Member of: Audit committee of Lloyds Banking Group plc and as a the British Banking Association, a director 6.
Lesley Knox Independent non-executive director and senior of the Securities and Investments Board Director Non-Executive Director independent director of Marks and is a past chairman of the London Appointed to the board: 1 August 2002 andSpencer Group plc.
Appointed to the board: 19 May 2011 Investment Banking Association.
Skills and experience: Geoff has held Member of: Nomination committee Skills and experience: Lesley brings a Member of: Corporate accountability senior roles in a number of multinational wealth of strategic and financial experience andrisk assurance committee 4.
Guy Elliott Deputy Chairman companies and has a wealth of experience across a range of businesses and is an and Senior Independent Director Nomination committee Chairman of global consumer products businesses.
experienced remuneration committee Appointed to the board: 1 July 2013 2.
Alan Clark Chief Executive chairman.
She qualified as a solicitor in Current appointments: He is a nominee Skills and experience: Guy has extensive theUK and as an attorney in the USA.
of Altria Group, Inc. Altria, and was Appointed to the board: 26 July 2012 experience of operating in both developed appointed to the board following Current appointments: She is a Skills and experience: Alan has and developing markets, having previously completion of the Miller Brewing Company non-executive director of Centrica plc an extensive knowledge of the global held a variety of finance, marketing, strategy transaction.
He is also a member of the where she chairs the remuneration beverage industry, having held a number and general management positions advisory board of Metalmark Capital LLC.
committee and is a trustee of the of management roles with the group, throughout his career.
Grosvenor Estates and chairman of Previous appointments: He is the former both in beer and soft drinks.
He became Current appointments: He is a Grosvenor Group Limited.
She is Managing Director, SABMiller Europe, in chairman and CEO of the Philip Morris non-executive director of Royal Dutch Shell involved with a number of arts and group of companies, the former chairman 2003 and was appointed as an executive plc and chairman of its audit committee.
director andChief Operating Officer of of Altria and Kraft Foods Inc. and a past is a member of the UK Takeover Panel and non-executive director of News SABMiller plc in 2012, before becoming Previous appointments: She was chairman of the Panels Code Committee.
Corporation Ltd. previously with British Linen Bank, becoming governor in 1999 and was Current appointments: He does not Member of: Nomination committee subsequently a founder director of have any external appointments.
Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee 3.
