Governance Leadership Board of directors We currently have 15 directors: our Chairman John Manser : eight independent non-executive directors: five non-executive directors whom we do not consider to be independent: and one executive director Alan Clark, the Chief Executive.
The independent non-executive directors include Jan du Plessis, who is our chairman designate, and Guy Elliott, who is our Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Short biographies of each of the directors are on pages 52 and 53.
After Jamie Wilson stood down as an executive director and Chief Financial Officer, Domenic fide Lorenzo was appointed as Acting Chief Financial Officer.
Domenic fide Lorenzo, whose biography can be found on page 55, is a member of our executive committee.
As described in the nomination committee report, a process has been initiated to appoint a permanent Chief Financial Officer.
John Manser, who has been a director since 2001 and delayed his proposed retirement to chair the board and provide stability following the untimely death of Graham Mackay, will step down as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2015 annual general meeting.
He will be replaced by Jan du Plessis who has astrong track record as a chairman of international groups Rio Tinto and BAT.
There were no significant changes to the Chairmans external commitments during the year.
In light of his impending appointment as our chairman, this year Jan du Plessis stood down as a non-executive director of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Guy Elliott succeeded John Manser as the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director on 18 December 2013 when John was appointed as Chairman.
Guy is a highly experienced business leader who is well placed to influence the governance of the company and to meet the responsibilities of his roles.
At this years annual general meeting we will also see the retirement of John Manzoni.
John joined the board in 2004 and has contributed considerable insight to the deliberations of the board, the remuneration committee, the nomination committee, and the CARAC.
In addition, as announced in May 2015, Altria has nominated Dave Beran for appointment to theboard, to succeed Howard Willard who retires following the 2015 annual general meeting.
Dave brings considerable global business experience to the board.
Howard leaves with our gratitude for his valued contributions to the board over the last six years.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 57 Governance Corporate governance continued | Our governance framework The size and certain aspects of the composition of our board and our audit, nomination and corporate accountability and risk assurance committees continue to be determined in part by the terms of our relationship agreements with our two largest shareholders, Altria Group, Inc. and BevCo Ltd a holding company of the Santo Domingo Group.
Both agreements have been approved by SABMillers shareholders.
Our agreement with Altria limits the size of the board to a maximum of 15 directors, of whom no more than two are to be executive directors, up to three are to be non-executive directors nominated by Altria, up to two are to be non-executive directors nominated by BevCo, and up to eight including the chairman are to be non-executive directors nominated by the board.
Our agreement with BevCo allows it to nominate up to two non-executive directors for appointment to the board.
Altria and BevCo have each exercised their right under their respective agreements to nominate one director for appointment to the nomination committee, being Geoff Bible and Alejandro Santo Domingo respectively.
Both Altria and BevCo have the right to nominate directors for appointment to the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC, which Altria has exercised nominating Geoff Bible butBevCo has not.
Altria has also exercised its right to nominate one director Dinyar Devitre for appointment to the audit committee.
1 Board of directors Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Seven independent Responsible for leadership Responsible for the day to day Responsible for managing all non-executive directors of the board and presiding management of the business in aspects of the finance function, over its meetings accordance with the strategy providing strategic input to the Five non-independent approved by the board board and executive committee, non-executive directors and supporting the Chief nominated by our two major Executive in the delivery shareholders of the groups strategy Board Committees Remuneration committee Audit committee Nomination committee Members: Three independent Members: Four independent non-executive Members: The Chairman and four nonnon-executive directors directors and one non-executive director executive directors two independent and nominated by Altria one each nominated by Altria and BevCo Role: Determines the reward strategy respectively fortheexecutive directors and senior Role: Assists the board in fulfilling its management, to align their interests oversight responsibilities regarding in Role: Ensures the board and senior withthose of the shareholders particular the companys financial and management team have the appropriate corporate reporting, risk management and skills, knowledge and experience to internal controls, and the independence operateeffectively and to deliver the and effectiveness of the external auditors groupsstrategy Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee Disclosure committee Members: The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer Members: The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive, andthree non-executive directors ChiefFinancial Officer, one other non-executive director and theGeneralCounsel, and the Group Company Secretary Role: Assists the board in the discharge of its responsibilities inrelation to corporate accountability, including sustainable Role: Ensures compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency development, corporate social responsibility and corporate Rules and the Listing Rules socialinvestment Management committee Executive committee Members: Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, four regional managing directors and four directors of key group functions Role: Assists the Chief Executive with the development and implementation of the groups strategy, the management of the business and the discharge of responsibilities delegated by the board 1 Numbers of directors shown are after the changes planned at the 2015 annual general meeting.
The Chief Financial Officer role is currently vacant.
Domenic fide Lorenzo is Acting Chief Financial Officer.
58 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance Our application of the UK Corporate Governance Code The board applied all of the main principles and provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2015, except in the following respects: 1.
The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
This recommendation was not met during the period between the planned retirement of Miles Morland at the conclusion of the 2014 annual general meeting, held on 24 July 2014, and the appointment of Jan du Plessis on 1 September 2014.
However, during this period the board was not scheduled to meet and no meetings took place.
O ur audit committee did not consist solely of independent directors.
Under our relationship agreement with Altria, as approved by shareholders in 2002 and in 2005, Altria has the right to nominate a director to the audit committee, and has nominated Dinyar Devitre, who the board does not consider to be an independent director for the purposes of the Code.
The board nevertheless considers that the composition of the audit committee remains appropriate, given Altrias interest as the companys largest shareholder.
Dinyar Devitre is a former Chief Financial Officer of Altria and the board considers that his experience and background in financial matters and his independence from management mean that the effectiveness of our audit committee in discharging its functions is considerably enhanced and not compromised by his membership.
T he Code recommends that the performance evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
In respect of the year under review, given the temporary nature of John Mansers appointment as Chairman, the board concluded that rather than carry out such a review towards the end of John Mansers tenure it would be more beneficial to conduct an externally facilitated performance evaluation early in the tenure of the new chairman, Jan du Plessis.
As described in the Chairmans statement, and detailed later in this report, the board did carry out a formal and rigorous evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the board, its principal committees, its individual directors and the Group Company Secretary.
The board intends to conduct an external evaluation during the current financial year.
T he Code was amended for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012 to provide that external audit contracts should be put out to tender at least every 10 years.
The company has not tendered its external audit contract within the last 10 years.
Since 2012, developing UK market practice has been to conduct an audit tender to coincide with rotation of the lead audit engagement partner.
Richard Hughes, the lead audit engagement partner from PwC, our current external auditors, is scheduled to rotate at the conclusion of the audit for the year ending 31 March 2016.
However in light of the process underway to appoint a new Chief Financial Officer we have determined that an audit tender should be undertaken during the 2016 calendar year for the start of the financial year ending 31 March 2018 to allow time for a new Chief Financial Officer to be appointed and to become established.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 59 Governance Corporate governance continued | Board meetings and attendance Board and committee meetings are held in an atmosphere of direct, robust and constructive challenge and debate among board and committee members.
During the year we held eight board meetings.
Individual directors attendance at board and committee meetings and atthe annual general meeting is set out in the table below.
In the few instances when directors could not attend a board or committee meeting, any comments which they had on the matters to be considered were given in advance to the chairman of the meeting, to the General Counsel, or to the Group Company Secretary.
Directors attendance 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC Attended Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM P J Manser N A 8 8 4 4 1 1 Y A J Clark N A 8 8 1 1 Y J S Wilson N A 6 6 1 1 Y M H Armour Yes 8 8 4 4 3 3 Y G C Bible No 8 8 4 4 1 1 Y D S Devitre No 8 8 4 4 Y J P du Plessis Yes 6 6 2 2 N A G R Elliott Yes 8 8 3 4 2 3 4 4 Y L M S Knox Yes 7 8 3 4 3 3 Y T A Manuel Yes 2 2 N A J A Manzoni Yes 7 8 3 3 3 4 1 1 Y M Q Morland Yes 2 2 1 1 2 2 Y D F Moyo Yes 8 8 1 1 Y C A Prez Dvila No 7 8 Y A Santo Domingo Dvila No 8 8 4 4 Y H A Weir Yes 7 8 3 4 4 4 1 1 Y H A Willard No 8 8 Y Guy Elliott was unable to attend the remuneration and audit committee meetings in May 2014 due to a long-standing commitment which pre-dated his appointment to the committee.
Helen Weir was unable to attend the board and audit committee meetings in September 2014 as the timing coincided with the release and presentation of her employers financial results.
John Manzoni, Carlos Prez and Lesley Knox were unable to attend the board meeting in October 2014, which was called at short notice to consider the creation of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa.
Lesley Knox was unable to attend the audit committee meeting in March 2015 due to a pre-existing business commitment.
John Manzoni was unable to attend the nomination committee meeting in March 2015 due to a pre-existing business commitment.
May 2014 July 2014 September 2014 Presentations to the SABMiller plc board Topic: The refreshed corporate affairs Topic: Shareholder and institutional Topic: Market overview and business strategy, the reputation of SABMiller investor engagement in relation to performance in China and an update on licence to the annual general meeting Presenters: Managing Director, trade issues Presenter: General Counsel and SABMiller Asia Pacific and the General Presenter: Corporate Affairs Director, Group Company Secretary Manager of China Resources Snow SABMiller plc Breweries Location: London, United Kingdom Location: London, United Kingdom Location: Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China Topic: The launch of the Mackay Topic: The challenges and Awards, presented within the SABMiller opportunities in South Africa including group for programmes aligned to our Topic: Chief Executives review the proposed transaction toform five Prosper shared imperatives which of senior executive succession Coca-Cola Beverages Africa have delivered positive returns for our Presenter: Chief Executive businesses and local communities Presenters: Chairman, SABMiller Location: Chengdu, Sichuan Province, Beverages South Africa and Presenter: Chief Executive China the Managing Directors of Beer Location: London, United Kingdom South Africa and Amalgamated Beverage Industries Location: London, United Kingdom 60 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance The work of the board Matters reserved for the board The board brings leadership to the group and sets strategic There is a schedule of matters that are dealt with exclusively by objectives, determines investment policies, agrees on performance theboard.
These include approval of financial statements, the criteria, and delegates to management the detailed planning and groups business strategy, the annual capital expenditure plan, implementation of those objectives and policies in accordance majorcapital projects, significant changes to the groups with appropriate risk parameters determined by the board.
The management and control structure, material investments or board monitors achievement against objectives and compliance disposals, risk management strategy, sustainability and with policies by holding management accountable for its activities environmental policies, andtreasury policies.
through monthly and quarterly performance reporting and budget updates.
The board receives regular briefings from the Chief Each standing board committee has specific written terms of reference issued by the board and adopted in committee.
The terms Executive, the Acting Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel of reference of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees and Corporate Affairs Director, and from the Group Company are available on the companys website.
All committee chairmen Secretary on legal, regulatory and corporate governance matters.
report orally on the proceedings of their committees at the next Other members of our executive committee regional managing meeting of the board, and the minutes of all board committee directors and directors of key group functions make regular meetings are circulated to all board members.
presentations to the board, enabling directors to explore and interrogate specific issues and developments in greater detail.
The membership and work of these committees are described The board also schedules visits to our regions, normally holding onthe following pages.
From time to time other ad hoc committees two meetings a year outside the UK, allowing directors the opportunity may be constituted for specific projects or tasks.
Anumber of the presentations made by management during the year are shown in the table below.
Conflicts of interest At the end of each board meeting, thenon-executive directors Our directors are required to avoid situations where they have, meet without management present.
or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the companys interests.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association of the company allow the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that mayarise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Procedures are in place for the disclosure by directors of any potential conflicts and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises.
These procedures continue to operate effectively.
There were no actual or potential conflicts of interest which were required to be authorised by the board during the year ended 31March 2015.
October 2014 November 2014 January 2015 March 2015 Topic: The Coca-Cola Beverages Topic: One Africa covering Topic: Presentations covering key Topic: As part of the boards Africa transaction key priorities and opportunities, other matters in the Latin America region annual dedicated strategy meeting focusareas and outlook for the year members received presentations Presenters: Managing Director, Presenters: President, SABMiller on strategic choices SABMiller Africa and the Director Presenter: Managing Director, Latin America and regional and of Group Strategy, SABMiller plc SABMiller Africa local management Presenters: Chief Executive, Director of Group Strategy and Acting Chief Location: London, United Kingdom Location: London, United Kingdom Location: Lima, Peru Financial Officer, and General Counsel Location: London, United Kingdom Topic: The progress of the business Topic: Global brands performance, cost and efficiency programme and challenges and opportunities a review of the CUB acquisition Presenter: Director: Global Brands Presenter: Chief Financial Officer Location: Lima, Peru Location: London, United Kingdom Topic: The development of our end-to-end supply chain Presenter: Director: Integrated Supply & Human Resources Location: Lima, Peru SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 61
