Governance Corporate governance continued | Audit committee report Mark Armour Chairman of the audit committee The audit committee assists the board in fulfilling its oversight In risk management and internal controls, we focused among responsibilities regarding in particular the companys financial and othermatters on IT network security, anti-bribery and corruption corporate reporting, risk management and internal controls, and policies and compliance, fraud, whistleblowing arrangements, andthe new cost and efficiency programme.
the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
In relation to the external audit thecommittee determined This report sets out how it has discharged its responsibilities to conduct a tender in 2016 for audit services for the financial during the year and, in relation to the financial statements, the year commencing 1 April 2017.
This is one year later than significant issues it considered and how these were addressed.
recommended in the guidance on audit tendering under the The board is required to ensure that the annual report is fair, UK Corporate Governance Code but allows appropriate time balanced and understandable, and the audit committee for the appointment and settling-in of a new chief financial assists by considering this.
officer and for any actions required to ensure compliance by the recommended firm with the expected new regulations The work of the committee is far-ranging.
Without attempting on non-audit services.
tosummarise it here, I would draw attention to the following: Mark Armour In considering the integrity of financial reporting, we considered Chairman of the audit committee three particularly significant areas of judgement in detail: the carrying value of goodwill, provisioning for uncertain tax positions, and items excluded from adjusted earnings.
Responsibilities The committee reports to the board on its activities, identifying any The committees main role and responsibilities are to assist the matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement board in fulfilling its responsibilities regarding: isneeded and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
the integrity of SABMillers interim and full year financial statements Committee members, their relevant financial experience and the and reporting, including the appropriateness and consistent attendance record are set out in the corporate governance report application of accounting policies, the adequacy of related onpages 60 and 62. disclosures, and compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are risk management and internal controls, related compliance available on our website, www.
activities, and the effectiveness of the internal audit function andwhistleblowing arrangements: and Committee meetings the scope, resources, performance and effectiveness of the The committee meets four times in the year.
Meetings are attended external auditors, including monitoring their independence by the committee members and typically, by invitation, the Chairman, andobjectivity.
Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, senior members of the group finance team, General Counsel, Group Company Secretary, and At the request of the board, the committee considers whether the Chief Internal Auditor.
Other non-executive directors have a standing annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether invitation to attend as observers: the Chairman-designate has itprovides the information necessary for shareholders to assess attended three meetings of the committee since his appointment thegroups performance, business model and strategy.
Other members of management are invited 70 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance toattend certain meetings in order to provide the committee with Financial and corporate reporting greater insight into specific issues and developments.
The audit In discharging its responsibilities in relation to the integrity of the partners and senior members of the group audit team from our interim and full year financial statements and reporting, before external auditors, PwC, attend each meeting.
theirsubmission to the board for approval, the committee reviewed reports from management and from the external auditors, and The committee receives and discusses regular written and oral discussed with them: reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor, theGeneral Counsel, and the external auditors relating to matters the appropriateness and consistency of application of the falling within the committees terms of reference.
Reports are also accounting policies, their compliance with applicable accounting received from time to time by other members of management and standards, and the implementation of changes in international other external assurance providers in relation to specific topics financial reporting standards, including IFRS 10 Consolidated addressed by the committee.
financial statements, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities which were adopted The committee meets separately at least twice each year with the forthe financial year: external auditors without management present and likewise at least the critical accounting judgements and estimations made in the annually with the Chief Internal Auditor.
The committee chairman has preparation of the financial statements and those matters where separate meetings at least four times a year with the Chief Financial there have been substantive discussions between management Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor, and with the external auditors.
and the external auditors: Healso meets separately with the General Counsel, and with the the contingent liabilities and judgements made in respect of Group Company Secretary.
The Chief Internal Auditor, the external significant legal matters, on which the committee receives auditors, the General Counsel, and the Group Company Secretary regular reports from the General Counsel: have direct access to the committee, primarily through the chairman, the adequacy and clarity of reporting disclosures and compliance on any matter that they regard as relevant to the fulfilment of the with applicable financial and other reporting requirements, committees responsibilities.
including the treatment of exceptional and other items excluded from adjusted earnings used by management as an additional New members of the committee are briefed on matters relevant to performance measure and the adoption during the financial the responsibilities of the committee and meet a range of finance yearof constant currency adjusted earnings per share growth management as part of their induction.
Training is provided to asan additional long-term financial performance measure: committee members on financial, regulatory and other compliance the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting, matters through briefings presented by the external auditors, the with reference to budgeted and projected future cash flows, debt Group Company Secretary, and the General Counsel.
During the maturities, cash resources and committed financing facilities, keycredit ratios and sensitivity analyses: and year, the committee received and discussed a presentation from the whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Deputy General Counsel on global trends in litigation and regulation, andunderstandable and provides the information necessary covering developments and emerging trends in areas of competition law, anti-bribery law, alcohol regulation, product liability and litigation.
forshareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
Committee members have a standing invitation to attend the bi-annual finance, control and assurance meetings for each of Critical judgements and key sources of uncertainty in the accounts thegroups regions, and do so on occasion.
The committee also are set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements and hasarotational programme for committee members to receive these were reviewed by the committee.
Of particular significance presentations from, and hold discussions with, the groups regional inthe financial statements were the judgements made in respect finance directors.
These focus on the regional finance organisation of the carrying values of goodwill, theprovisioning for uncertain and succession plans, priorities for the finance teams, implementation tax positions, and the treatment ofexceptional and other adjusting within the region of the groups global systems template and the items in presenting underlying financial performance.
These were new cost and efficiency programme, and risk management and addressed by the committee asfollows.
The meetings provide greater insight onthese matters to members of the committee and also reinforce the Carrying values of goodwill culture of integrity and accountability within the group.
The judgements in respect of the carrying values of goodwill and potential asset impairment relate to the assumptions underlying The committee chairman briefs the board on the matters discussed thevalue in use and fair value less costs of disposal calculations at each committee meeting and the minutes of each meeting are andinclude the robustness of business plans, long-term growth circulated to all board members.
The committee received and discussed reports from the Acting Chief Financial Officer The committees effectiveness was reviewed as part of the on the impairment methodologies applied, the bases for the key effectiveness review of the board and its committees carried out assumptions used, a range of sensitivity analyses, and the related inMarch and April 2015.
This concluded that the committee was disclosures.
The committee sought additional information from operating satisfactorily and was effective in fulfilling its mandate.
management on the plans and growth expectations in Australia AtitsMay 2015 meeting, the committee discussed further how to andIndia where carrying values are significant and market improve its workings with a particular focus on risk management conditions are challenging.
In the case of India, impairment had oversight and internal control, reflecting the additional emphasis beenidentified and a charge for impairment recognised.
onthese areas in the most recent revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 71 Governance Audit committee report continued Uncertain tax positions reviewed the processes for the identification and management The judgements in respect of provisioning for uncertain tax positions ofmaterial risks across the group, and discussed changes to relate to the inherent uncertainties in the application of tax law and theprincipal risks and risk profiles during the year: practice, the assumptions underlying deferred tax asset recognition, discussed the principal risks identified by the risk management and the complexity of assessing potential liabilities across numerous processes, the mitigating actions and residual risk.
The committee received and discussed a report from also discussed by the board.
As part of its review of the annual the Acting Chief Financial Officer on the potential liabilities identified report, the committee reviewed the disclosures with respect and estimates applied and on assumptions used in respect of toprincipal risks and mitigating factors: deferred tax asset recognition.
The committee noted the received and discussed regular reports from the Chief Internal reclassification of balance sheet amounts following a clarification Auditor on the progress of internal audit work against the agreed bythe IFRS Interpretations Committee in relation to deferred annual plan, the principal findings of the internal audit work tax asset recognition.
undertaken, actions agreed with management, and the progress on implementation of prior recommendations.
The reports also Exceptional and adjusting items provided further detail on assurance activities in respect of major The judgements in relation to exceptional and other adjusting items change projects under way in the group, including the findings relate to whether they are appropriate to exclude in presenting ofany third party firms appointed to provide related assurance underlying financial performance in the groups key performance services, and addressed any identified frauds of significance.
indicators of EBITA and adjusted EPS.
The committee received and Areas of assurance focus during the year included: management discussed reports from the Acting Chief Financial Officer on each of the rollout of the global template: implementation of the new exceptional and adjusting item to determine whether they were cost and efficiency programme: IT network security: appropriate, and in accordance with the groups established policy implementation of and compliance with anti-bribery and on these matters, consistently applied.
The committee discussed corruption policies: and continued progress towards voluntary in particular the adjustment for the early redemption premium in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the respect of the bonds redeemed and noted that there would be no Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation and testing further exceptional integration costs in Australia beyond the financial ofinternal controls over financial reporting: reviewed and approved the annual internal audit plan and year.
The committee also discussed and agreed the policy approach resource requirements: in relation to the exceptional and business as usual costs of the new reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function, including cost and efficiency programme, and the assurance to be provided consideration of its scope as set out in the terms of reference, on the allocation of costs and thereporting of benefits.
theadequacy of resources, including skills and expertise, the relevance of its findings and quality of reporting, and the impact The committee received reports from the external auditors on each ofits recommendations.
The committee reviewed a report on of these matters and discussed with them the judgements made.
The committee was satisfied with the explanations provided and theimplementation of the recommendations arising from the prior conclusions reached.
years external review of the effectiveness of internal audit and noted progress, particularly in relation to the more extensive The committee reviewed and discussed with management the use ofdata analytics.
processes undertaken to ensure that the annual report was fair, received and discussed regular reports from the General Counsel balanced and understandable and reviewed drafts of the annual on compliance matters, including the operation of the groups report to consider whether, based on the knowledge and code of business conduct and ethics and related training understanding of committee members, it appeared to be so.
programmes, the adequacy of the groups anti-bribery and Thecommittee received reports from the Chief Internal Auditor corruption framework and the implementation of its policies, andthe external auditors on whether or not, having reviewed the andwhistleblowing arrangements.
In relation to the groups document, the results of their respective reviews and other work whistleblowing arrangements the committee received reports would suggest otherwise.
The General Counsel reported on the fromthe General Counsel on concerns raised through these steps taken to verify the accuracy of statements in the annual report, arrangements, both to assess whether these suggested any need and on compliance with legal disclosure requirements.
Based on for the enhancement of internal controls, and to assess whether this, the committee recommended the annual report to the board the whistleblowing arrangements appear to be functioning asfair, balanced and understandable, and as providing the effectively, with proportionate and independent investigation information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups ofreported matters, appropriate protection for whistleblowers, performance, business model and strategy.
The General Counsel also reports tothe committee on the bi-annual letters of representation received from the groups businesses on compliance matters Risk management and internal controls andon management actions taken on any issues identified: With respect to its oversight of risk management and internal received and discussed a presentation from the Chief Information controls, the committee reviewed and discussed a wide range Officer on cyber security, including an assessment of vulnerabilities ofmatters with management, and with the internal auditors and and the programmes being implemented to protect the group external auditors as appropriate.
In particular the committee: against this evolving risk: 72 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance PwC has confirmed to the committee its continuing independence reviewed with the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Treasurer and compliance with the SABMiller policy on auditor independence.
the groups treasury policies and revisions proposed to take The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner account of evolving best practice and experience.
After discussion, responsible for the audit engagement every five years, unless there revisions to the policies were agreed by the committee for are unusual extenuating circumstances when a further year may be endorsement by the board.
See also page 45 in the finance considered.
The lead audit engagement partner, Richard Hughes, review.
At each meeting of the committee, reports were received has now completed four years.
on compliance with commodity hedging policies and counterparty credit limits: The committee conducted its annual review of the performance received updates on the groups global insurance arrangements, of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit and on the operation and funding of the groups defined benefit process for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The review was based post-retirement plans: and on a survey of key stakeholders across the group, consideration of received regular updates from the Chief Financial Officer on public regulatory reports on PwC member firms, and the quality of developments within the finance function.
the auditors reporting to and interaction with the committee.
Based on this review, the committee was satisfied with the performance As part of the year-end procedures, and based on the activities ofthe auditors, their objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit described above, the audit committee reviewed the effectiveness process.
In the light of this and their continued independence, ofthe systems of internal control and risk management during the the committee has recommended to the board that a resolution financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, rather for the reappointment of PwC as the external auditors for the than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
financial year ending 31 March 2016 be proposed at the annual Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, general meeting.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The committee reported to the board on this basis.
The committee has monitored recent regulatory developments in theUK and the European Union regarding the length of audit tenure, External audit independence and effectiveness audit tendering and audit firm rotation, and the provision of non-audit SABMiller has a well-established policy on the independence of the services by auditors.
The European Union has now directed member external auditors and management of the companys relationship states to adopt legislation by 2016 requiring that companies change with them.
This sets out: the committees responsibilities in the their external auditors at least every 10 years, or every 20 years if selection of auditors to be proposed for appointment or reappointment an audit tender is held after 10 years, subject to transitional rules, and for agreement on the terms of their engagement, audit scope and restricting further the non-audit services that may be provided.
and remuneration: the auditor independence requirements and the The UK Corporate Governance Code requires, on a comply or policy on the provision of non-audit services and the rotation of audit explain basis, that the audit is put out to tender at least every 10 partners and staff: and the conduct of the relationship between years, subject to transitional guidance that, when a tender has not the auditors and the committee.
been held in the past 10 years, it would be appropriate to coincide a tender with the next rotation of the lead audit engagement partner.
The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that This would suggest a tender for the year commencing 1 April 2016, would compromise their independence or violate any professional since the next rotation of the lead audit engagement partner is requirements or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
scheduled to take place after the conclusion of the audit for the The auditors may, however, provide non-audit services which do year ending 31 March 2016. notinterfere with their independence, and where their skills and experience make them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval Taking into account these regulations and developments in the bythe committee.
The policy stipulates the types of work that are business, the committee has determined to conduct a tender in 2016 notpermitted to be performed by the auditors and those which may for audit services for the financial year commencing 1 April 2017.
This be permitted in appropriate circumstances.
The groups procedures is 12 months later than suggested in the Code transitional guidance, require that any non-audit services proposed to be provided by the but is considered to be in the best interests of the group as it allows auditors be supported by justification as to why the appointment of appropriate time for a new chief financial officer to be appointed the external auditors to provide the services is in the best interests of and to become established and for any actions required to ensure the group, and how auditor independence would be safeguarded in compliance by the chosen firm with new regulations on restricted the specific context of the proposed services.
The committee has, at non-audit services.
Under the transitional rules of the new EU each meeting, reviewed and agreed the non-audit services provided regulations, should PwC be reappointed following the tender, in the year and the related fees, which are summarised in note 3 to mandatory auditor rotation would require that new auditors be the consolidated financial statements.
SABMiller does not indemnify appointed for the year ending 31 March 2024 at the latest.
its external auditors and there are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditors.
The external auditors, , later becoming  LLP PwC in 2003, were appointed as thecompanys auditors in 1999 when the company moved its headquarters from Johannesburg to London and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
