Our resources and relationships Our values are who we are and how we work they are brought to life every day by our people.
Go to pages 24-29 for more information on the key risksand uncertainties to our resources, relationships andresponsibilities Saga plc 20 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Our resources and relationships Gender diversity as at 31 January 2015 There are a number of key assets, beyond the financial, which are vital to the functioning of our business model and the delivery of our strategy.
Male Female Actual % Actual % Total Brand Saga is the leading provider of products and services tailored Board 9 90% 1 10% 10 for customers over the age of 50 in the UK.
Our brand has Senior Managers 89 68% 42 32% 131 been carefully developed over the past 60 years and is now Employees 1,672 43% 2,217 57% 3,889 one of the most recognised and trusted brands among UK consumers aged over 50.
We are synonymous in the UK with the over 50s market and are recognised for our high-quality Board products and services, expertise in serving our target Directors of the plc including Executive and Non-Executive demographic and excellence in customer service.
Senior Managers Sagas brand recognition and excellence in customer service All divisional board Directors including divisional CEOs have enabled us to expand our product offering successfully, and employees with some strategic input and influence achieve high levels of repeat business and acquire new excluding Board customers without needing to rely heavily on costly third party advertising.
Employees All Saga employees including those in points 1 & 2 The unique model that we operate, with a business centred around the power of the Saga brand and multi-product We are committed to ensuring we provide full and fair provision, rather than on a single product segment, has consideration to applications for employment from people allowed us to achieve sustainable growth, delivering robust with disabilities, as well as supporting employees who performance in recent years.
become disabled during their employment.
We adapt the People working environment and, where we can, offer flexible Saga continues to grow due to the talent and focus our working practices to ensure the retention of our employees, people have for delivering great products and excellence no matter what their personal circumstances.
At recruitment in customer service.
we make adjustments to facilitate applications and the selection process and provide guidance and, where Our employee policies are designed to maximise employee necessary, additional training for interviewers.
retention and develop our people.
This starts by recruiting the right people for the right roles and we have invested heavily in Human rights strengths-based recruitment and training in our contact Saga has a responsibility to conduct business in an ethical centres.
This activity was reflected in our turnover rates.
Saga adheres to a set of business principles including a commitment to internationally To help our employees make the most of their existing skills, proclaimed human rights standards.
as well as to acquire new skills, we run the Saga Learning Academy.
The Saga Learning Academy makes available a The Group has in place internal policies to support recognised wide range of facilities and resources to all employees.
These include policies Learning Academy sites provide a quiet space for learning, on non-discrimination, health and safety, anti-bribery and reading or studying.
The scheme offers access to over 250 environmental issues.
The Group also maintains a zero e-learning courses covering a number of topics, including tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
communication, leadership, human resources, management, Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum customer service, sales, marketing, negotiation, project standards we expect from our partners and suppliers and management, health and safety, team building, typing, their employees, contractors, agents and subsidiaries when languages, first aid and software courses.
The code covers human rights and In order to further develop our people and recognise and labour laws, support for local communities and environmental reward talent we have a robust performance management impacts, as well as bribery and corruption.
system in place, which is designed to drive the right behaviours Health and safety and bring our brand values to life in the way that we work.
Saga is committed to protecting the health, safety and welfare We also believe in communicating at all levels within the of employees, customers and anyone affected by our Company using multiple channels, including face-to-face operations.
As such, we aim to develop a positive health meetings, videos, global emails and newsletters.
We operate and safety culture and continuously improve health and an open and safe environment where people are encouraged safety performance.
to talk to us, for example, through our open door policy and whistleblowing arrangements.
Saga plc 21 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Our resources and relationships continued We are aware of our obligations, and are fully dedicated to Once we have designed and tested products and services, meeting those obligations through the development of we decide how best to source them for our customers, suitable policies and procedures.
in-house or from a third party.
However, we are not a commission-based business.
We design Beyond this, everyone in Saga has a personal responsibility bespoke products ourselves then look for the best possible for health and safety and for performing the activities they partners to supply them, comparing them for service and undertake in a safe manner.
Over time we can move if more appropriate, or better, Community and social partners become available.
Our partners work with us in this Saga has a very strong presence in Kent and East Sussex way because it is a mutually advantageous relationship they being a major employer in Thanet, Folkestone and Hastings.
benefit from our brand, customer knowledge and access to We recognise our responsibilities to the communities from an attractive target market.
Saga, and its customers, benefit which we draw potential recruits and upon which the from our partners expertise and resources.
This also means successful delivery of our brand rests.
that we maintain responsibility for delivery and continue to own the relationship with our customers, ensuring we can One aspect of this is the maintenance of strong links with manage the customer experience at all times.
For example, we invite schools to put forward students to join Sagas annual work Database and technology experience programme.
Our multiple customer interactions across a broad range of products and services over many years have enabled We also aim to be a good neighbour to local residents and us to develop a sophisticated proprietary Group play our part in supporting community initiatives for Marketing Database.
example, donating funds to secure the future of Hastings Pier and support for the Folkestone Airshow and Deal Sea Scouts.
This database now contains highly relevant data for 10.8million people, and 8.8million households, covering over The Saga brand transcends the commercial sphere and has 50% of over 50s households and over 60% of over 50sABC1 astrong social and campaigning aspect giving voice to the households in the UK.
concerns of the nations over 50s.
This is achieved through the research, public policy and news stories generated by Saga has a consistent focus on data collection and we are our communications team.
Being a trusted voice means that constantly re-confirming the data we gather through over Saga is able to be heard in the media and is also welcomed 128million interactions per year.
By selling products and by policy makers who seek our views when crafting and services directly to customers, we capture information about developing policy.
Examples of how Saga has influenced our customers at every point of contact and build a view of public policy can be seen in the new pension freedoms, the customer, including their multi-level preferences and changes to the ISA regime and the cross-party support changes in behaviour over time.
Our data analysts are then able to perform sophisticated Our charity work includes two Saga charities.
The Saga analysis such as customer segmentation and propensity Respite for Carers Trust provides carers aged 50 and over modelling, resulting in targeted marketing, in order to with a much needed holiday away from their caring introduce appropriate products and services to customers responsibilities whilst paying for the care for their loved one.
in a highly efficient manner with relatively low customer The Saga Charitable Trust benefits under-privileged acquisition costs.
Importantly, our database is exclusive communities in developing countries visited by Saga to us: we do not share the information with third parties for customers.
The charity invests in sustainable projects which marketing purposes.
empower and support local communities, as well as provide increased opportunities for those communities to benefit from Our main IT systems are developed, supported and tourism.
The operating costs of both charities are met by maintained in-house, as many of the systems are a key Saga.
In addition, funds are raised through activities source of our competitive advantage.
supported by customers and by Saga employees.
Most of our operating systems are adapted to each business We were also one of the inaugural signatories of the Ministry segment, so application support is administered by decentralised of Defences Corporate Covenant, launched at 10 Downing segment-specific support functions.
In contrast, most of our IT Street, which outlines our commitment to members of the infrastructure, such as telephony switches, data networks and regular and reserve forces, their partners and families.
server rooms, are maintained by centralised support functions.
Supplier partnerships Data security and the threat of cybercrime are key issues and These relationships are fundamental to our business model.
these are covered in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties We work very closely with our suppliers to deliver the products chapter on pages 24-29. and services to the standard our customers expect of us.
Saga plc 22 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Ships The table below shows our tCO e emissions for the year 2 Our ships are important assets in their own right, and are ended 31 January 2015: subject to an ongoing programme of refurbishment and refits to maintain a standard of performance in line with safety tCO e 2014 15 2 requirements and our customers expectations of them and us.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 104,734 Scope 1 Beyond this, though, they are also an embodiment of the Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 7,038 Saga brand and an opportunity for us to interact with for our own use Scope2 customers in a way that few, if any, of our financial services Total Scope 1 and 2 111,772 competitors can emulate.
With this in mind they operate with one of the highest staff to passenger ratios of any cruise line, OPTION 1: tCO e per employee FTE 20.9 2 to ensure that service, health and safety are second to none.
OPTION 2: tCO e per employee 5.5 2 Environment OPTION 3: tCO e per employee 18.6 2 The Group is sensitive to its environmental impact and aims to Based on headcount data.
Excludes carers, representatives, ship crew operate in a manner that minimises negative impact, such as and Destinology.
waste sent to landfill, and invests in activities which have a positive impact on the environment, such as improved energy Methodology efficiency.
We strive for continuous improvement of our We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas operations to reduce any potential impact our business may emissions according to the GHG Protocol and have utilised have on the environment.
Saga promotes green travel options the UK Government 2014 Conversion Factors for Company and has a network of Saga minibuses that take people to and Reporting in order to calculate CO equivalent emissions from 2 from its sites, and we also promote a cycle to work scheme.
We have also taken certain data used for compliance with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Greenhouse gas emissions This section has been prepared in accordance with our In order to improve monitoring and management of our regulatory obligation to report greenhouse gas emissions carbon impact, we established a global carbon data pursuant to Section 7 of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic programme during 2014 in collaboration with Carbon Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
This will improve oversight around our energy 2014 financial year, Saga plc emitted a total of 111,773 tCO e 2 consumption and increased the quality and availability of from fuel combustion Scope 1 direct and electricity performance information for decision making.
purchased for our own use Scope 2 energy indirect.
We have also chosen to voluntarily report Scope 3 emissions Reporting boundaries and limitations arising from our business travel.
We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational control approach and have adopted a materiality threshold of 5% for GHG reporting purposes.
As a result, Emissions by GHG source tC0 e 2 emissions from diesel combustion within building generators are reasonably estimated to contribute less than 5% of our 100,000 90,000 total footprint and have been excluded from our disclosure.
80,000 70,000 The GHG sources that constitute our operational boundary for 60,000 the 2014 reporting period are: 50,000 40,000 Scope 1: natural gas combustion within boilers, marine fuel 30,000 combustion within ships, road fuel combustion within 20,000 vehicles, fuel combustion within non-road mobile machinery 10,000 and fugitive refrigerants from air-conditioning equipment 0 Scope 2: purchased electricity consumption for our own use Scope 3: business travel Assumptions and estimations Pro rata estimations are used where there is missing data, Total emissions tC0 e 2 using a calculation that accounts for the amount of days missing from within the financial year 01 02 2014-31 01 2015 1.
Scope 1 92% and applying an average volume from the data provided.
Scope 3 6% Where the fuel type and vehicle types are not known, an average business travel car size is applied and the emissions factor for unknown fuel is used to calculate emissions.
Saga plc 23 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Marine fuel 97,669 Road fuel 6,082 Fuel combustion 41 non-road Gaseous fuel 816 buildings Fugitive 126 emissions Red diesel 0 Electricity 7,038 consumption Business travel 1,694 grey eet Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
