Nomination Commi?ee The Committee continually evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience required for a successful board in a changing industry.
Donald Brydon Chairman of the Nomination Committee Key objective To review the composition of the Board and to plan for its progressive Nomination Committee Membership: refreshing, with regard to balance and structure.
The Committee also Donald Brydon Chairman Drummond Hall considers issues of succession.
Jonathon Howell Inna Kuznetsova Committee meetings Neil Berkett Ruth Markland The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least once per year.
During the year, the Committee mettwice.
Responsibility Activity Reviewing the structure of the Board The Committee dealt with the appointment of a new Chief Executive Ocer Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, The Committee considered the skills, knowledge, independence and experience of the Board and experience and diversity of the Board rearmed the approach to diversity, as described on page 54 Advising the Board on areas where further The Committee considered the skills and experience of the Board members.
It continues this review recruitment may be appropriate on an on-going basis Succession planning for key executives at Board TheCommittee has continued to work to ensure appropriate succession and mix amongst both the level and below and for non-executive directors executive and non-executive directors, as shown on pages 60 and 61.
Egon Zehnder has no connection with Sage or the appointed director Board appointments other than for the provision of these services and services relating to The appointment of Stephen Kelly as Chief Executive Ocer other Sage Board appointments.
was announced in August 2014, and he joinedthe Board on 5 November 2014.
Duringthe year the Committee alsoassessed the skills, knowledge, independence and experience of the Board anddetermined that In identifying a new Chief Executive Ocer, the Committee retained no further appointments were necessary at that time.
the services of executive search consultants, Egon Zehnder.
Egon Zehnderworked closely with the Chairman who led the process Gender on behalf of the Committee.
The Board and the Committeecontinue to value the aims and objectives A number of potential candidates were identied by the consultants and of The Davies Report on Women on Boards.
In considering appointments some candidates approached Sage directly.
An initial long list ofpossible to the Board and to senior executive positions, it isthe policy of the appointees was discussed with the Chairman, from which a short Commiee to evaluate the skills, experience and knowledge required by list was created.
All candidates on the short list were interviewed a particular role with due regard for the benefit of diversity on the Board by Commiee members.
Following the interviews andfully considering and at senior management level and make an appointment accordingly.
the experience and skills of the candidates, as well asthe diversity of the Further details on the approach to diversityare set out on page 54.
Board, the Commiee unanimously recommended the appointment of Stephen Kelly as Chief Executive Ocer to the Board.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73
