Corporate Governance Statement Leadership Our brand values human, personal and warm underpin major capital projects, corporate action or investment by everything that we do and this culture is modelled throughout our Saga that will have, or are likely to have, a financial cost business.
The Executive Directors visit business areas, including greater than the amount set out in the relevant contract our call centres, attend internal employee roadshows and spend approval processes from time to time time on our ships, to fully understand what Saga is, what our any material contract or joint venture and material customers are saying and how our employees are feeling.
arrangements with customers or suppliers.
Our strategy provides the focus for all of the discussions at Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Officer, hosts events our Board meetings and each meeting focuses on a review for all of the managers who report to him or to his direct of our strategic objectives and financial performance.
These sessions, held quarterly, allow for two way communication for Lance to communicate delivery against strategy and for senior management to challenge ourbrand Allocation of time spent on matters at Board meetings by asking What is Saga?
Lance has also held meetings with since listing for year ended 31 January 2015 over 300 managers to communicate our strategy.
Our independent Non-Executive Directors have had a full 1.
Strategic review 30% induction programme, as detailed on page 62 and are planning 2.
Financial review 28% 1 6 avisit on board one of our cruise ships later this year.
Shareholder relations 12% 5 Board participated in an offsite strategy event, in November 4.
Health and safety 11% 2014, which gave them the opportunity to meet with each 2 6.
R egulatory matters and 3 divisional chief executive, in order to fully understand the policy review 7% strategy of each business.
Subsequent training is available onan individual basis to continue to buildtheir knowledge ofthe Company.
Board attendance during the year The Board of Directors The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year and The Board is responsible for, and provides, the overall on an ad hoc basis as necessary.
During the last financial leadership and management of Saga including setting yearsince listing, it met formally on five occasions.
In addition, Sagas values and standards.
A fundamental part of this meetings are convened as necessary to approve strategic role is considering thebalance of interests between our matters, and a strategy event is held each year, to present shareholders, our employees, our customers and the anannual and five year plan for each of the businesses to communities in which wework.
We also provide oversight and supervision of Sagas operations ensuring: Me Mem mbe ber r Attendance at in alphabetical order after the Chairman Board meetings successful implementation of agreed plans sound planning and competent management a sound system of internal control and risk management Andrew Goodsell Chairman 5 5 adequate accounting and other records 1 James Arnell 4 5 compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
Lance Batchelor 5 5 Our Board Philip Green 5 5 The Board has a clearly articulated set of matters which are Pev Hooper 5 5 specifically reserved to it and this will be reviewed annually.
Stuart Howard 5 5 The Board recognises that certain items cannot be delegated 1 Ray King 4 5 and there are some matters that they choose not to delegate.
1 Orna NiChionna 4 5 Examples of such matters are: Charles Sherwood 5 5 any decision likely to have a material impact on Saga from 1 Gareth Williams 4 5 any perspective including, but not limited to, financial, operational, strategic or reputational 1 Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be the strategic direction of the overall business, objectives, rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
budgets and forecasts, levels of authority to approve expenditure, and any material changes to them The Company Secretary, Vicki Haynes, attends all meetings the commencement, material expansion, diversification as secretary to the Board.
In addition, we also invite other orcessation of any of Sagas activities executives and directors from around the Group, and external Sagas regulatory, financial and material operational policies advisers, to provide input on relevant agenda items.
changes relating to Sagas capital, corporate, management or control structures material capital or operating expenditures, outside predetermined tolerances or beyond the delegated authorities Saga plc 58 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Structure We have set up five committees of the Board.
BOARD Strategic direction of the Group Considers needs of our shareholders, employees and customers Overall leadership and management Compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations Sets values and standards Management of risk and control NOMINATION AUDIT RISK REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Provides recommendations Monitors integrity of Advises on the Groups Sets and monitors the onsize, structure and financial statements risk appetite, tolerance remuneration policy composition of the Board Reviews internal and andstrategy forsenior executives Undertakes succession external audit work plans Oversees and advises Recommends and planning Assesses the adequacy the Board on current monitors remuneration Evaluates skills, knowledge, and effectiveness of risk exposures and future packages for Executive independence and the Companys internal risk strategy Directors, the Chairman diversity of the Board and external audits Reviews risk assessment and senior management Identifies and nominates and controls and management Reviews and administers candidates to fill Reviews Sagas annual procedures employee share schemes Boardvacancies and half year financial Monitors principal Sets key performance Reviews Board statements and business risks indicators for the Annual performance accounting policies Reviews adequacy Bonus Plan and evaluation results Considers and makes andeffectiveness long-term incentives recommendations for of risk management Prepares an annual The Nomination Committee the engagement of systems and the remuneration report Report is on page 63. external auditors compliance function forapproval by the Monitors the scope of Reviews and monitors shareholders at the annual audit and the management response the AGM extent of the non-audit to the Chief Risk The Remuneration work undertaken by Officers findings and Committee Report is external auditors recommendations contained within the Ensures whistleblowing The Risk Committee Report Directors Remuneration and anti-fraud systems is on pages 70-71.
Report on pages 73-95 inplace within Saga andisincorporated into The Audit Committee thisCorporate Governance Report is on pages 67-69.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Reports directly to the Board via the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer.
Implements strategy as determined by the Board Day to day operational management Executive management monitors trading against strategy Management of risk and conduct Saga plc 59 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
