Corporate governance report Our Governance framework The role of the Board and its commi ees Board Strategy development, growing shareholder value, oversight and control, and corporate governance Our Board provides leadership to the business as a whole to drive it forward for the benefit, and having regard to the views, of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board sets Sages risk appetite and retains overall responsibility for risk management and internal controls systems, ensuring there are processes in place to identify and manage the groups principal risks.
The Board sets the strategy for the business.
It has delegated the authority to manage the business to Stephen Kelly, Chief Executive Ocer, who delegates specic responsibilities to members of the Executive Committee, including the development and implementation of strategy.
The Board also delegates other matters to Board committees and management as appropriate.
Audit and Risk Nomination Commi@ee Remuneration Chief Executive Ocer Commi@ee Committee Executive Committee To oversee the Groups To review the composition To determine the framework, financial reporting, risk of the Board and plan for policy and levels of management and internal its progressive refreshing remuneration and make Developing and control procedures and the with regard to balance recommendations to the implementing strategy, work of its internal and and structure as well Board on the remuneration operational plans, budgets, external auditors.
of the Chief Executive policies and procedures: Ocer, Chairman, executive monitoring operating and directors, the Company financial performance: Secretary and senior assessing and controlling executives.
risks: prioritising and allocating resources: and monitoring competitive forces in each area of Pages69 to 72 Page 73 Pages 74 to 92 operation.
The terms of reference of each Board and Committee meetings and attendance committee, which are reviewed Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee on an annual basis, can be found on our website.
Donald Brydon 6 6 2 2 7 7 Stephen Kelly 6 6 The Board and each commiee Steve Hare 6 6 are satisfied that they receive sucient, reliable and timely Ruth Markland 6 6 4 4 2 2 6 7 information in advance of Drummond Hall 6 6 4 4 2 2 6 7 meetings and are provided Jonathan Howell 6 6 4 4 2 2 7 7 with all necessary resources Neil Berkett 6 6 4 4 2 2 6 7 and expertise to enable them Inna Kuznetsova 6 6 4 4 2 2 6 7 to full their responsibilities and undertake their duties in an eective manner.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of maers reservedfor it for decision.
This schedule is reviewedperiodically, was last reviewed on 28 September 2015 and is available via our website.
64 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Board roles Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, its eectiveness and governance and for monitoring and measuring the implementation of strategy.
The role of Chairman also carries a particular Responsible for leading responsibility to monitor and assess Sages corporate governance practices.
the Board, its eectiveness and governance To ensure a proper dialogue with directors, the Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors to assess their views.
In addition, the non-executive directors have met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
These meetings without the Chairman are chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman also ensures that shareholder engagement is discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have access to the non-executive directors, through a request to the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Chief Executive Ocer The responsibilities of the Chief Executive Ocer include: Responsible for the the design, development and agreement of strategy with the Board formulation of strategy implementation of the strategy and policy and the running of the Group and running of the Group managing the overall performance of Sage, concentrating on revenue and profitability as well as capital expenditure The Chief Executive Ocer also identies acquisitions and monitors competitive forces, as well as ensuring an eective and motivated leadership team.
The Chief Executive Ocer chairs the Executive Committee and maintains a close working relationship with the Chairman.
Senior Independent The role of Senior Independent Director is: Director to provide a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, Discusses any concerns other than through the Chairman with shareholders together with the other independent non-executive directors, to evaluate the performance that cannot be of the Chairman resolved through the normal channels The Senior Independent Director is available to consult with shareholders.
of communication Company Secretary The Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice and assistance, and is responsible for providing governance advice to the Board.
Ensures good information ows to the Board and its The Company Secretary ensures Board procedures are complied with, that applicable rules and committees and between regulations are followed and acts as secretary to the Board and all of the committees.
Minutes of all senior management and meetings are circulated to all directors.
He facilitates the induction of new directors and assists with non-executive directors professional development as required.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Ocer are quite distinct from one another and are clearly dened in written terms of reference for each role.
These terms of reference are available on our website at www.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 65 Corporate governance report continued Focus of the Board for the year Tenure 75% In the year under review, the Boards focus has been on strategy and ensuring that the structures, capabilities and reports are in place to 12.5% support the Group strategy.
The Board has received regular reports from both the Chief Executive Ocer and the Chief Financial Ocer.
2015 0 - 2 years 75% In particular, in response to continued external changes discussed 12.5% 3 - 6 years 12.5% in the strategic report, time has been spent considering: 7 - 9 years 12.5% Our evolving strategy as discussed at our capital markets day Our global products including our strategy around these Our payments businesses and our strategy around these businesses The areas of risk across our businesses Actions taken to minimise theprincipal risks faced by Sage, as described on pages36 to 43, have also been regularly discussed and the Board has Gender looked at succession issues, particularly in light of recent and on-going 75% changes within our executive teams.
The Board meets not less than six times per year.
During this year, it met six times.
2015 Board composition Male 75% 25% The Board is made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive Ocer, Female 25% Chief Financial Ocer and five independent non-executive directors.
The directors have a range of experience and can bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
This experience and judgement is considered vital to our success.
It is the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of those directors which ensures the duties and responsibilities of the Board and its committees are discharged eectively.
Executive Non-executive 25% The Board monitors the independence of its non-executive directors, particularly those who have given long service.
Having reviewed the current Board, the non-executive directors are all considered to be independent.
Donald Brydon was considered independent at the date of his appointment.
2015 Executive 25% Ms Ruth Markland completed nine years of service on the Board Non-executive 75% 75% in September 2015.
Her experience as the longest serving Board member provides valuable insight, knowledge and continuity.
Having consideredMs Marklands independent focus on the issues which the Board addressesas evidenced by her contributions at Board meetings, the Board unanimously considers that Ms Marklandcontinuesto be independent.
During the year, Donald Brydon retired from his role as chairman of the Royal Mail plc and became chairman of the London Stock Exchange plc.
Diversity Taking into account these changes, the Board considers Mr Brydon has The Board has due regard for the benets of diversity in its membership, appropriate time and resource to devote to his role as chairman of Sage.
and strives to maintain the right diversity balance.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that the composition of the Board includes individuals with All directors are subject to election or re-election by shareholders deep knowledge and experience, bringing a wide range of perspectives at each Annual General Meeting.
Sage continues to support the aims and objectives of The Davies Report on Women on Boards.
The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report & Accounts, comprises 25% women 2014: 25%.
The Board must continue to provide strong leadership at Sage, and, therefore, continues to appoint only the most appropriate candidates to the Board.
Whilst applying this policy in the Group, no measurable objectives have been set.
Further details of our policies in this area are set out on page 54.
66 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Conicts of interest Induction and professional development The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, manage To ensure a full understanding of Sage is developed, new Board conicts or potential conicts of interest.
At each Board meeting, members undergo a full, formal and tailored induction programme.
the Board considers a register of interests and potential conicts During the year, Stephen Kelly received such an induction, of directors and gives, when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
which included: There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conict or potential conict, with only those directors A full day meeting a team of our senior executives at a Group who have no interest in the maer taking the decision.
No conicts and operating company level of interest have been identied during the year.
Visits to our business in the US and meetings with the heads of the European business Board eectiveness Bespoke training as deemed necessary based on individual needs The Board has adopted a written set of objectives for the financial year, against which it assesses progress at each meeting.
This ensures that To assist the Board in undertaking its responsibilities, training is available the Board focuses on key issues relevant to Sage and can monitor to all directors and training needs are assessed as part of the Board progress in all these areas.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who ensures that directors take Board and commiee papers which are clear, focused and relevant independent professional advice when it is judged necessary in order ensure that the Board has the information it needs to consider the to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
issues relevant to the business.
The papers are issued on a timely basis to ensure that the Board and its commifhees have ample time Board meetings are held at our operating companies both inside to consider and digest their contents and that the Board has the and outside the UK.
Non-executive directors also visit our overseas information it needs to discharge its duties.
Regular attendance at operations on a regular basis.
This provides the Board and individual Board meetings by key executives ensures that the Board has the non-executive directors with the opportunity to broaden their opportunity to discuss the risks and opportunities within our business understanding of Sage and the key markets in which we operate.
with leaders from across the Group.
Risk management and internal controls In order to increase their knowledge of the business and expand their The Board retains overall responsibility for setting Sages risk appetite, contacts with executives around the Group, the non-executive directors and for risk management and internal control systems.
In accordance regularly visit the operating companies around the world to meet with with section C. 2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board is senior executivesand to be briefed on the particular issues faced by responsible for reviewing their eectiveness, and confirms that: the business in that region.
All of the Board attended the Summit Conference held by the Group in New Orleans in July 2015, the largest there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating, and managing convention for small businesses around the world, at which they met the principal risks faced by the Company customers and prospective customers, Sage employees and other the systems have been in place for the year under review and up stakeholders fromthe 64 countries represented at the convention.
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts A number of directors also attended the Capital Markets Day in London they are regularly reviewed by the Board in June 2015 at which they met many investors in the Group and were the systems accord with the FRC guidance on risk management, able to discuss with them the Groups strategy.
internal control and related financial and business reporting.
Performance evaluation During 2015 the Board has directly, and through delegated authority to The Board recognises the importance of reviewing its practices and the Executive Commiee and Audit and Risk Committee, overseen and performance on a regular basis and has evaluated its performance reviewed the performance and evolution of risk management activities and that of its committees and individual members.
In the past, the and practices and internal control systems within Sage.
Through both Board evaluated its performance in a number of dierent ways including its on-going involvement and overview in risk management and internal detailed questionnaires and discussions between individual directors control activities, the Board is satisfied that the risk management and and the Chairman.
Inthe previousnancial year, the Board used an internal controls systems in place remain eective.
This financial year, the Chairman undertook The Board continues to support the on-going development of risk the evaluation through a detailed questionnaire which eachdirector management and internal controls to ensure that they remain eective completed relating to the Board, its role and the interaction of its as the business continues to evolve under the Sage 2020 Strategy.
This questionnaire was then used as the basis for individual Details can be found in both the Audit and Risk Commi$ee section interviews with each director.
of this report on pages 69-72 and the Balancing Risks and Rewards The results and outcomes of the review were discussed by the Board section on pages 36-43. as a whole.
Key topics during these discussions included Board composition, diversity including gender diversity, the frequency and content of Board meetings andthe supporting documentation, and succession.
As a result, new Board objectives have been set, taking into account the findings from the review.
In addition to the Board review, the Chairmans performance was evaluated by the Senior Independent Director through correspondence and discussion with the Chairman and the other directors and was found to be eective.
The Board was of the view that, notingthe changes in his role outside of Sage, he continued to devote the appropriate time to his role as an eective chairman.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 Corporate governance report continued Whistleblowing Internal Audit A whistleblowing telephone hotline service operates in all of our Internal Audit activities are provided by an in-house team supplemented operating companies, allowing employees to raise concerns in relation under co-source agreements by third-party providers.
The role of to dishonesty or malpractice on an entirely condential basis.
"The Audit Head of Internal Audit is undertaken by the Group Risk and Assurance and Risk Commi""ee receives regular reports on any maers raised Director who has a direct reporting line to the Audit and RiskCommittee through these services and monitors the use throughout the Group."
and its Chairman in order to ensure independence.
Internal Audits role is to advise management and the Board on the Quality and integrity of personnel extent to which systems of risk management and internal controls The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high are eective.
recruitment standards and the provision of subsequent training and development.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part More information on Internal Audit is set out within the Audit and Risk of the control environment.
Management structure Relations with shareholders A clearly dened organisational structure exists within which individual Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
A full Annual responsibilities are identied and can be monitored.
The management Report & Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive one of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive Ocer and and all information on Sages activities, published financial results and the Executive Commiee, as discussed on page 64.
Within the Group the Annual Report & Accounts can be found on our website.
There is team there are a number of central administrative functions such as regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and there are Group Treasury, Corporate Communications and Group Legal.
These presentations to analysts after our announcement of the year-end and functions report to the Board through its executive members and the half-year results.
members of the Executive Committee.
At each meeting, the Board receives an update on presentations to A number of Group-wide policies, issued and administered centrally, investors and communications from shareholders to ensure that the have been set to ensure compliance with key governance standards.
Board has an understanding of their views.
The Annual General Meeting These policies cover areas such as finance, data protection and mergers is used to communicate with private and institutional investors and the and acquisitions.
The conduct of Sages individual businesses is Board welcomes their participation.
delegated to the local executive management teams.
Details of the In addition, during this financial year, on 24 June 2015 Sage held a authority delegated to local and regional management are set out in a Capital Markets Day for investorsduring which we outlinedour future delegation of authority matrix which is communicated to management strategy and operational implementation plans, as well as our ambition throughout Sage.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and for the future.
A suite of key performance indicators was also provided, performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
on whichthe success of the businessin the future will be judged.
For Budgetary process more details please see the discussionon page 28.
A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets for all operating companies being approved by respective local boards.
Information included in the Directors report Subsequently the combined budget is subject to consideration and Certain information, fullling certain requirements of the Corporate approval by the Board.
Management information systems provide the Governance Statement, can be found in the Directors report and is directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor incorporated into this Corporate governance section by reference.
For reference, relevant sections of the Directors report are: Investment appraisal including acquisitions Substantial shareholdings Budgetary approval and dened authorisation levels regulate capital Deadlines for voting rights expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers proposals for research and development programmes.
Acquisition Repurchase of shares activity is subject to internal guidelines governing investment Amendment of the Companys articles of association appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and Appointment and replacement of directors post-acquisition management.
Powers of the directors Monitoring and review By order of the Board There are processes in place to monitor the system of internal controls and to report any significant control failings or weaknesses and planned M J Robinson mitigating actions.
These processes include: Company Secretary On an on-going basis, the Sage operating companies certify that 2 December 2015 Sages policy requirements have been received and understood Management representations covering compliance with relevant policies and the accuracy of financial information are collated on an annual basis 68 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
