Audit and Risk Commiee Our priority is ensuring that the highest standards of governance are maintained across all areas of the business.
Jonathan Howell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Commi&ee The five members of the Audit and Risk Committee are all independent non-executive directors with a wide range of relevant business Audit and Risk Committee Membership: experience, and have the expertise necessary to meet the Committees Jonathan Howell Drummond Hall responsibilities which are dened in its terms of reference.
An overview Chairman Inna Kuznetsova of the knowledge and experience of each of the five Committee Neil Berkett Ruth Markland members can be found on pages 60 and 61 of this report.
The Code requires that the Commi#ee has at least one member with recent and relevant financial experience, and the Board is Dear Shareholder satisfied that the Chairman meets these requirements, being a I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Audit and Risk Commi&ee qualied chartered accountant and the Group Finance Director the Committee.
at Close Brothers Group plc.
The Commiee has amongst its responsibilities the role of supporting The Commiee met four times over the course of the year, in line the Board in setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring that there are with its terms of reference.
All Commiee members attended every processes in place to identify and manage the Groups principal risks.
meeting, and were joined at each meeting by the Chairman of the This has been an area of focus for 2015, which has been a year of Board, the Chief Executive Ocer and the Chief Financial Ocer.
significant change as the Group begins its journey of transition from The Chairman reports to the Board on key matters arising after each a set of federated businesses, into a globalised, integrated Group with of these meetings.
At each meeting, the Commiee normally meets standardised processes, controls and support functions.
In addition with the external auditor and the Group Risk and Assurance Director to this, the revised reporting requirements of the Financial Reporting without management being present.
Council FRC have provided the Commiee with much to consider Outside these formal meetings, the Chairman meets on a regular in ensuring the on-going eectiveness of internal controls, financial basis with the Chief Financial Ocer, the external auditor, the Group and business reporting, risk assessment, systems and management, Risk and Assurance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
The going concern and viability.
Chairman and other Committee members have also met with finance In responding to these challenges during 2015, the Committee reviewed colleagues around the Group duringcountry visits.
Additionally, the all principal risks and associated appetite statements and metrics at each Chairman has an open invitation to attend any meeting of the Global meeting, ensuring these evolved and werealigned to the achievement Risk Commiee or Regional Risk Committees.
of Sages strategic objectives, and assessed the adequacy of controls and theassurance delivered over these identied risks.
Itmonitored the Activities during the year eectiveness of the control environment through the review of reports During 2015, the Committee has been focused ona number of areas from Internal Audit, management and the external auditor, and ensured across financial reporting, risk management, internal controls the quality of our financial reporting through review of the interim and assurance ensuring that the controls environment has been financial statements and the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
appropriately considered as the Group moves from a federated governance framework to the global governance framework Composition needed to support our growth ambition.
The Committee is an essential element of Sages governance framework, Financial Reporting to which the Board has delegated oversight of Sages financial reporting, risk management and internal control procedures, and the work of In respect of financial reporting, the Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements and considered the significant accounting Internal Audit and the external auditor.
and reporting maers set out below.
"In addition, the Commi""ee reviewed managements response to the constructive enquiry received from the FRC, which is now closed, in respect of the Groups 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and the resulting improvements to disclosure."
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Commiee continued In performing its review, the Committee considered the work, whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information judgements and conclusions of the global finance team and received necessary for shareholders to assess Sages position and performance, reports from the external auditor setting outits view on the accounting business model and strategy.
As part of this responsibility, the treatments included in the financial statements, based on a review Commiee has suggested improvements to, and reviewed the results of the interim financial statements and audit of the annual financial of processes put in place by management to provide the necessary statements.
This review included assessing the appropriateness of the assurance including analyses of how the key events of the year have accounting policies and practices, compliance with external financial been described in the Annual Report.
The Committee also received reporting standards and relevant statutory requirements, and reviewing representations from management, the output of a review of the the adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements.
Strategic Report section of the Annual Report by Internal Audit and considered the perspective of the external auditor.
The Commiee was also requested by the Board to review and advise the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a significant accounting and reporting matters Maer considered Action Revenue Recognition The review performed by management covered the revenue accounting for all significant products The Group sells its products in many dierent ways in the major territories across the Group, focussed on the timing of revenue recognition, and the across the globe.
Ensuring that the Groups revenue treatment of amounts paid to various business partners of the Group which are deducted from revenue.
recognition policies are both appropriate and The Committee reviewed managements report outlining conclusions from its review and: consistently applied is a key focus of the Committee with the transition in business model to selling reviewed the nature and scope of the revenue recognition exercise undertaken by management software as a service and the increased focus on reviewed and discussed with management the findings and conclusions arising from this exercise recurring revenue.
Consequently, the Committee considered with management the accounting adjustments and related disclosures in the 2015 requested that management undertake a detailed Group financial statements review of the accounting practices for revenue As set out in note1 to the financial statements, the revenue recognition exercise led to a change recognition across the Group.
in the application of the Groups accounting policy in two areas: the treatmentof payments to independent sales organisations who refer customers to the Groups payments business there-phasing of the upfront revenue received in relation to products where software does not function fully without the customer making on-going payments The Committee also considered the external auditor findings and reporting on this matter.
Goodwill impairment testing The Committee reviewed and considered a detailed report from management on the work undertaken Goodwill is an area of focus for the Committee and the assessments made in relation to the impairment testing of goodwill.
The report considered given the materiality of the Groups goodwill the determination of CGUs, the future performance expectations of the businesses concerned and the balances, the evolution of Sages business discount rates applied to future cash ow forecasts.
model and the impairment of goodwill in 2014 The Committee also reviewed the assumptions underpinning the impairment of the goodwill relating relating to the business in Brazil.
to the business in Brazil.
The Committee reviewed and discussed the sensitivity analysis performed by In addition, judgements andassumptions are applied management and discussed the impact of the macroeconomic environment in Brazil and its impact in calculating the recoverable amount of the Cash on the cost of capital assumptions used.
This included taking into consideration the views of external Generating Units CGUs and determining the audit and its valuations specialists.
on-going appropriateness of the CGUs being More information on goodwill impairment is set out in note 1 to the financial statement.
used for the purpose of impairment testing.
Viability The Committee spent time, at two meetings, reviewing the process undertaken by management to Recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance support and allow the Directors to make the Groups viability statement.
At its September meeting the Code introduced a new requirement for the Board Committee considered and provided input into the determination of which of the Groups principal to consider the period over which they are able to risks and combinations thereof might have an impact on the groups liquidity and solvency.
At its conclude that the Company will remain viable, November meeting, the Committee reviewed the results of managements scenario modellingand having taken into account severe but plausible risks the reverse stress testing of these models.
On account of this being a The Groups approach to producing its viability statement can be found on page 43, with the viability new requirement, the Committee considered this statement found on page 93. to be a significant reporting maer.
Tax provisions The Committee requested and received a report from management detailing the key uncertain tax The Group recognises certain provisions and accruals exposures across the Group against which provisions had been made and the methodologies used in respect of tax which involves a degree of estimation to determine the appropriate level of each provision based on managements assessment of the facts and uncertainty for certain items whose tax treatment and circumstances and advice from our external tax advisers.
The Committee also received a report cannot be nally determined until a resolution has during the year from the Group Tax Director on the Groups tax policy, approach to tax management been reached with the relevant tax authority.
A particular focus of the Committee was on the recognition of deferred tax assets and in considering managements position, the Committee took into account the work and views of external audit.
More information on tax and tax provisions is set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
70 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The establishment of the Global and Regional Risk Committees during Our priorities for 2016 include: the year has enhanced the governance around risk management, to Overseeingthe eective operation of the Global and Regional support the robust framework that enables the Committee and the Risk Committees, as they continue to embed risk management Board to evaluate on an on-going basis therisk prole of the Group across One Sage and adapt its focus in response to any changes to the risk prole.
The Monitoring progress of the Excellence in Governance initiative Chairman of the Committee has an open invitation to attend the Global as it continues to align the groups governance framework in Risk Commiee meetings or any of the Regional Risk Committee support of our growth ambition meetings.
These structures support the transition of the business to Promoting a strong compliance and control based culture, and One Sage, and embed consistent risk management activities across supporting management as they build capacity and capability the business.
Further detail on these committees is set out on page 37. across One Sage To support these governance enhancements, Sage continues to develop its risk management team and capability in order to further integrate its practices into business activities and to allow it to guide, Risk management and internal controls support and challenge the business in support of its intended growth The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in matters of risk and strategy.
The Commiee, on behalf of the Board, monitors and reviews the Fraud and whistleblowing eectiveness of risk management systems and related internal controls Another important component of the Groups control environment to ensure that issues that have arisen are properly dealt with, ensuring are its Whistleblowing arrangements, under which the Committee that corrective action is taken where necessary, and that going forward is notied of any maers raised through these arrangements or the systems are t for purpose.
During the year, the Committee: otherwise that relate to financial reporting, the integrity of financial management or fraud.
There were no cases of fraud which were Reviewed the principal risks, their risk appetites and metrics, and significant or that demonstrated material weaknesses in internal challenged their alignment to the achievement of the Sage 2020 controls during the year.
Furthermore, to proactively identify control strategic objectives.
The Commiees review considered failures and to support the Groups Whistleblowing policy, a programme management actions and mitigations in place and planned, of fraud assessments is undertaken across the business as part of a to address these risks multi-year cycle.
Considered the formal output from the Global Risk Commi ee since its first meeting in August 2015 Assurance Reviewed reports from Global Risk on targeted in-depth reviews One of the Commi ees primary areas of responsibility is to review on selected principal risks as outlined on page 38 and approve the nature and scope of the work of the external auditor and Internal Audit, and managements related response.
The Committee Reviewed and approved updates to global policies for which considered and approved the planned activities of Internal Audit along the Committee is responsible with the scope of the work of the external auditor for the year.
Regular Reviewed Internal Audit and management reports on financial, reports were received from both Internal Audit and external auditor compliance and operational risk matters and discussed by the Committee.
Reviewed and monitored the implementation of management The Commiee is also responsible for ensuring that the external actions to address identied control weakness and improvements auditors are independent and responsible for both the setting and Considered cases of fraud and identied control issues to assess monitoring of compliance with the policy on non-audit services.
whether they are significant or demonstrate material weaknesses in internal controls Assessed the eectiveness of Internal Audit through an external review as outlined in this report Reviewed reports from the external auditor on the Groups financial reporting and internal financial control environment, and any issues identied in the course of their work, including observations on controls and control weaknesses, and ensured that there is an appropriate response from management At each of the Commi ees meetings an agenda item isreserved for relevant, current and important issues.
The Committee uses these sessions to receive detailed briengs on specic areas of the business, and to further their understanding of the risks associated with them.
During 2015 the Committee received briengs on the Finance Change Project which aims to improve the capability and capacity of the Global Finance function, the North American Business Financial Controls, and an update against our 2020 Strategy.
The Committee also considered the evolution of our approach to risk management, internal controls in our North American payments business and our Excellence in Governance initiative.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Commiee continued Private meetings were held with the external auditor at each Committee Internal Audit meeting to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and The Committee reviewed the scope and monitored the results of feedback from the Commiee and the auditor without management Internal Audits activities including the quality and timeliness of being present.
In addition to these private meetings the Chairman management responses.
A high level Internal Audit plan is approved by meets on a regular basis with the external auditor to facilitate eective the Commiee at the beginning of the financial year, with subsequent and timely communication.
"Further, the Committee received a formal quarterly changes to the detailed plan requiring Commi""ee approval."
statement of independence from the auditor.
Progress against the plan is monitored throughout the year.
significant issues identied within Internal Audit reports are considered in detail Following a review and having given consideration to the performance by the Commiee along with the appropriateness of mitigation plans and independence of the external auditor, the Committee has to resolve those issues.
recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint EY be proposed at the 2016 AGM and the Board has accepted and An Internal Audit charter is in place which outlines the vision, objectives, endorsed this recommendation.
authority, scope and responsibilities of Internal Audit.
Performance against this charter, and the eectiveness of Internal Audit, is reviewed Non-audit services by the Commiee on an annual basis.
In 2015 an external eectiveness The Committee ensured compliance with Sages Auditor Independence review was conducted by PwC which evaluated Internal Audit against Policy, which was updated during 2015 to reect the relevant EU leading practices and performed an assessment against global Institute Regulation Directives and FRC consultation paper on UK member of Internal Audit standards.
This review was presented to the Commiee state adoption.
The principal requirements of the Auditor Independence and reported that Internal Audit provides a good service to Sage, the Policy are that the external auditor may not undertake certain team is well qualied to provide assurance over core controls which is prohibited services, which include but are not limited to: an important requirement for the business and that the fundamentals of planning, delivery, reporting and performance management are in place.
tax services bookkeeping and preparation of accounting records and Notwithstanding these conclusions, opportunities were identied to financial statements enhance the scope and performance of work in line with its 2016 strategy, which was approved by the Committee.
internal audit services payroll services The Commiee considers and evaluates the level of Internal Audit resource to ensure it is appropriate to provide the required level of legal and valuation advice assurance over the principal risks, processes and controls throughout The Commiee must approve any individual non-audit services above the Group.
External auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY The ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees must be within Sages The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the pre-determined ratio, which is currently that non-audit fees appointment of the external auditors.
In making this recommendation, for the year must not exceed 70% of the average of the external the Commiee considers auditor eectiveness and independence, audit fees billed over the previous three years.
partner rotation and any other factors which may impact the Commiees Discretion is used, subject to the controls set out above, in obtaining judgement regarding the external auditors reappointment.
Following the non-audit services from the external auditor, although other formal tender process conducted in 2014, this has been EYs first year accountancy rms are also used when appropriate.
In accordance as Sages external auditor and focus has been placed on assisting with the Auditor Independence Policy, a cumulative summary of them develop a good understanding of the business.
The Commiee non-audit fees paid to the external auditor and Internal Audit third monitored the conduct and eectiveness of external audit during the party providers is presented to the Commiee on a quarterly basis.
year through a review of: The ratio of non-audit fees for the year to the average of the external Experience and expertise of the auditor audit fees over the previous three years was 1%.
A breakdown of total The fullment of the agreed external audit plan and any variations audit and non-audit fees charged by the auditor for the year under from this plan review is shown in note 3.2 to the financial statements.
The robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in their handling of key accounting and audit judgements Interaction between management and the auditor, including Jonathan Howell ensuring thatmanagement dedicates sucient timeto the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Commi ee audit process 2 December 2015 Communication with, and support to, the Committee Insights, added value and reports The content of external audit reports Independence, objectivity and scepticism 72 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
