Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee We are presenting a new remuneration policy that aligns to our strategy outlined at our Capital Markets Day in June.
Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDER, Remuneration Commi, ee Membership: It is my pleasure to present the Directors remuneration report for Drummond Hall Jonathan Howell the year ended 30 September 2015, having been appointed the Chairman Inna Kuznetsova Remuneration Commiee Chairman on 5 December 2014.
Donald Brydon Ruth Markland We aim to be entirely transparent in our remuneration practices and Neil Berkett provide shareholders with the information needed to make informed decisions about our Company.
Key Responsibilities Making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on Sages framework of executive remuneration Determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benets for each of the executive directors, including performance share awards, performancerelated bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments Monitoring remuneration for senior executives below Board level Approval of share awards Key objective Committee meetings To determine the framework, broad policy, and levels of remuneration No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be present for the Groups Chief Executive Ocer, the Groups Chief Financial at its meetings.
The Chief Executive Ocer may, as required, attend Ocer, the Chairman of the Company and other executives as deemed meetings, except where his own performance or remuneration is appropriate.
This framework includes, but is not limited to, establishing discussed.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
stretching performance-related elements of reward and is intended to The Commiee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, promote the long-term success of the Company.
to meet at least four times per year.
During this financial year, the Commiee metseventimes.
74 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
