Corporate Governance Statement Risk Committee Report Our terms of reference and main responsibilities Ray King Chairman, Risk Committee Our full terms of reference, explaining our role and the authority delegated to us by the Board, are available on the Saga website at http: corporate.
co. uk investor-relations corporate-governance Our main responsibilities are: advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy keeping under review the Groups overall risk assessment processes that inform the Boards decision making, ensuring both qualitative and quantitative metrics are used, Dear Shareholder, and reviewing these measures regularly I am pleased to present the first report of the Risk Committee, keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups risk which was established at the time of the IPO.
All of the management systems independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the reviewing the Groups capability to identify and manage Risk Committee and also of the Audit Committee and this new risk types and ensuring that a supportive risk has helped us to develop a broad-based understanding management culture is embedded and maintained ofinternal control and risk management in Saga.
throughout the Group The role of the Risk Committee is to monitor the Groups where appropriate, agreeing with the Remuneration risk and compliance management procedures described Committee how risk should be recognised when setting on pages 24-25 and regularly review principal business performance objectives for executive remuneration risks and compliance matters on behalf of the Board.
reviewing reports on any material breaches of risk limits While Sagas business is mainly in retail financial services, and the adequacy of proposed action its businesses in travel, shipping and care of the elderly reviewing Group compliance performance, assessing the bring specific risk and compliance issues which we keep adequacy and effectiveness of the various compliance underregular review.
Sagas principal business risks functions and giving particular consideration to any anduncertainties are described in pages 24-29. breaches and or required notifications to compliance authorities and how these have been rectified Maintenance of an effective risk reward balance in pursuit reviewing reports from the CRO on the effectiveness of our objectives is essential.
The Risk Committee provides of risk management operations a forum for careful consideration of our risks on an reviewing and monitoring managements responsiveness individual and aggregated basis across our businesses.
to the findings and recommendations of the CRO.
We have made a good start in reviewing and contributing to the management of the principal risks in the Group and Our activities I look forward to building on this in the coming year.
Risk strategy, policy and appetite The Risk Committee has worked with management to ensure Attendance during the year that the Group has tailored risk management structures which The Risk Committee meets as necessary, although meet the needs of each business and which also work within normally at least four times a year.
During the last the Groups overall risk management in terms of policy, risk financialyear since listing, it met on two occasions appetite and monitoring procedures.
andithas also met twice since the year end.
The Risk Committee also recognised the need to define risk Member Attendance appetites and tolerances for both financial and non-financial Ray King Chairman 2 2 risks.
We therefore ensured that management produced risk appetite and tolerance statements for a range of risk categories, Philip Green 2 2 both at Group and business level.
The final Group risk policy Orna NiChionna 2 2 was approved by the Committee and signed off by the Board.
1 Gareth Williams 1 2 Management and reporting 1 Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be At our early meetings we focused on agreeing the risk rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
management procedures throughout the Group.
We worked closely with the CRO and executive management to understand The Company Secretary, Vicki Haynes, attends all meetings and agree resourcing, reporting lines and information flows as secretary to the Risk Committee.
In addition, Lance tothe Risk Committee.
Enhancements to the existing risk Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer, Stuart Howard management framework were agreed and we introduced a Group Chief Financial Officer, Andy Bulgin ChiefRisk Officer, formal requirement for business CEOs to certify compliance CRO and Helen Webb Head of Internal Audit attend by with the risk management framework at year end.
We also invite other executives and Directors from around the Group toprovide input on relevant agenda items and have private meetings with theCRO.
Saga plc 70 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Compliance The Group has regulated businesses in financial services, travel and healthcare, all of which require a robust approach to safeguard standards of compliance.
At each meeting, the Risk Committee reviews the overall Group compliance status and receives a report on significant incidents within each of our businesses to assess the Companys response.
Review of individual businesses One of the Risk Committees first actions was to initiate, on arotational basis, meetings with each of the business CEOs and key functional managers to discuss in detail the risk andcompliance issues in their business.
Importantly, these meetings have focused both on current operational issues and on the implications of business development plans and possible changes in our markets, and more generally in theeconomy.
These meetings were prioritised according to risk ratings inthe Groups risk register for further information refer to theGroups principal risks on pages 24-29.
During the financial year we received presentations from IT following which a more detailed presentation including the threat of cybercrime wasmade to the Board and Healthcare.
Since the year end, we have received presentations from theCEOs of Saga Services, Direct Choice Insurance Services and the Shipping division, which included a summary of the relevant risk environment and provided confirmation of how risk and compliance is embedded within each area.
Allocation of time spent on matters at Risk Committee meetings for year ended 31 January 2015 1.
Re sourcing and implementation 7 2 ofpolicy 11% 3 4.
I n-depth review of business 6 5 areas 28% 7.
Private meetings with CRO 11% An evaluation of the Risk Committees effectiveness will be conducted after a full year of operation.
Ray King Chairman, Risk Committee Saga plc 71 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
