Corporate Governance Statement Audit Committee Report Our terms of reference and main responsibilities Ray King Chairman, Audit Committee Our full terms of reference, explaining our role and the authority delegated to us by the Board, are available on the Saga website at http: corporate.
co. uk investor-relations corporate-governance Our main responsibilities are to: monitor the integrity of financial statements of the Company review and report to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements review and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control Dear Shareholder, systems including compliance, whistleblowing, fraud I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit detection and the prevention of bribery Committee during its first year following the Companys review and approve the internal audit charter, budget listing on the London Stock Exchange.
and work plan monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys The Audit Committee was formed at the time of the IPO, internal audit function, in the context of the Companys met on two occasions during the financial year and has overall risk management system met twice since the year end.
We have worked closely consider and make recommendations to the Board in with management and the external auditors to develop an relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal early understanding of the Groups businesses and its ofthe Companys external auditors financial reporting and internal control processes.
We ensure that at least once every ten years the audit services have also met with the independent chairmen of the audit contract is put out to tender committees of the Groups two key subsidiaries, AICL, monitor, review and assess the external auditors our insurance underwriting business based in Gibraltar independence and review the external audit work plan and Saga Services Ltd in order to gain their perspectives.
review the findings of the audit with the external auditors.
These early meetings have been marked by open, We work in co-operation with the Risk Committee, to monitor constructive discussion and I would like to thank all the range of internal control and risk management issues participants for their contribution.
The common membership of both Committees helps us to operate in a very integrated way.
The members of the Audit Committee are the four independent Non-Executive Directors appointed at the Our activities time of the IPO, Philip Green, Ray King, Orna NiChionna As a new committee, our early work involved developing and Gareth Williams.
I chair the Audit Committee and our understanding of the Companys financial reporting as a chartered accountant have had recent and relevant and internal control processes through meetings with key financial experience as a CEO and CFO.
The Company management and the external auditors.
This allowed us to set Secretary, Vicki Haynes, is secretary to the Audit Committee.
work plans and robust agendas for meetings and ensure that appropriate policies, procedures and reporting arrangements Attendance during the year were in place to address our remit.
Member Attendance At our first meeting, in September 2014, we reviewed our Ray King Chairman 2 2 terms of reference, established the flow of reporting to the 1 Philip Green 1 2 Audit Committee and reviewed the recent work of Internal Orna NiChionna 2 2 Audit and of the existing subsidiary audit committees.
Work 1 plans for the year were agreed with internal and external audit.
Gareth Williams 1 2 We considered the Groups main accounting policies and 1 Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be reviewed the interim results before their consideration rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
In addition to the Audit Committee members, Lance At this meeting, we considered the external auditors Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer, Stuart Howard engagement terms for 2014 15, including the fee proposal, Group Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Stringer Group and made recommendations to the Board.
We considered Financial Controller, Helen Webb Head of Internal Audit, areport from the external auditors setting out the significant Andy Bulgin Chief Risk Officer and representatives from risks and other areas of audit emphasis identified by them our external auditors attend by invitation.
We also invite through their planning work, and their intended approach to other executives and Directors from around the Group to auditing these areas.
We also determined the Group policy provide input on relevant agenda items and have private forpurchasing non-audit services and procedures to address meetings with the Head of Internal Audit and the financial crime.
Saga plc 67 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Corporate Governance Statement Audit Committee Report continued At our next meeting in December 2014 we considered a Assets held for sale.
Following the Groups decision to report from Internal Audit on the effectiveness of the Groups dispose of the Allied Healthcare business, we considered risk management systems and received a presentation on the classification of this business as a held-for-sale preparations in AICL for Solvency II, the European Union disposal group and concluded that the criteria in IFRS 5 Insurance Directive which comes into force on 1 January had been met and the assets and liabilities had been 2016.
We also received adetailed report on whistleblowing appropriately fair-valued.
We considered the determination and valuation of charges in respect of the various shareAt the February 2015 meeting we received a presentation based payments and concluded that the charge in the from the chairman of the audit committee for Saga Services income statement was appropriate.
and Direct Choice Insurance Services: considered the annual report planning and received an update from the external Reports were received from EY at the conclusion of their work auditors.
We discussed with Ernst & Young LLP EY or the on the interim and fullyear results and during the process Auditor their main observations following the interim audit.
The reports on the full year results included Themeeting in April 2015 focused on the annual report, specific focus on thoseareas identified as having significant andwe conducted and evaluated the effectiveness of the audit risk or otheraudit emphasis.
audit process and auditors performance.
Following our review of the accounts and after reading the annual report we advised the Board that we supported its Allocation of time spent on matters at Audit statement on page 99 that the annual report and accounts, Committeemeetings for year ended 31 January 2015 takenas a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable andprovides the information necessary for shareholders 1.
P rocedure terms of reference toassess the Companys business performance, business and flow of reporting 17% model and strategy.
A ccounting procedures, policies 5 2 External audit 4 and judgements 5% Our responsibilities with regard to external audit include 5.
Policy review financial crime recommending to the Board the appointment of auditors, and non-audit 10% 3 6.
I n-depth analysis of business agreeing their remuneration, ensuring their independence area 8% andobjectivity and working with them to achieve an efficient 7.
Private meetings External auditors and effective audit.
Representatives of EY attend each Audit and Head of Internal Audit 3% Committee meeting and the chairman of the Audit Committee maintains contact between meetings, as required.
An evaluation of the Audit Committees effectiveness will be The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the conducted after a full year of operation.
We considered how the EY team Annual report haddemonstrated their skill, independence and objectivity Review of interim and full year results duringthe year, the quality of reports received by the Audit The interim and full year results were reviewed, together with Committee and the efficiency of the year end process.
Views papers summarising the process of preparing the financial were also received from executive management.
The Audit statements, the appropriateness and application of key Committee is satisfied that the audit continues to be effective accounting policies, and the areas of significant judgement, and provides an appropriate independent challenge to the including how those judgements were made.
Key areas of significant judgement which we discussed were: Auditor re-appointment The Audit Committee unanimously recommended to Valuation of insurance contract liabilities 641.3m.
We theBoard on 28 April 2015 that a resolution for the considered the conclusions of the Insurance Reserving re-appointment of EY as the Companys independent Auditor Committee and the actuarial processes for valuing these beproposed to shareholders at the AGM and the Board liabilities including the key judgements made.
We also hasaccepted and endorsed this recommendation.
received the views of EY from their work on the assessment of reserves and concluded that the valuation of insurance External audit tendering contract liabilities was appropriate.
EY were appointed as auditors of the principal trading Testing of the carrying value of goodwill for impairment.
companies within the Acromas group in September 2007 Weconsidered the methodology to perform the impairment following a competitive audit tender process.
They were then reviews of the carrying value of goodwill and concluded appointed as auditors of Saga plc on 24 September 2014 that no impairments were necessary, except in relation following its incorporation and insertion within the Group prior tothe Healthcare Services segment where we agreed with to listing.
In accordance with the Competition and Market the impairment processed by management of 177.8m.
Authoritys order which requires FTSE 350 companies to tender the audit at least every ten years, the Group intends to undertake its next competitive tender process following the completion of the audit of the year ending 31 January 2017.
Saga plc 68 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Auditor independence and non-audit services Matters referred this year included a number of IT issues, The independence of EY is reviewed by the Audit Committee notably the threat of cybercrime and risk management and confirmed by the Auditor throughout the year.
procedures in the Healthcare division.
In liaison with the Risk Committee we have reviewed the The Audit Committee approved a list of non-audit services effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk where we were satisfied EY could carry out those services management systems.
without jeopardising their role as auditor.
We also set clear approval levels where the Audit Committee Chairman orthe Financial crime policies whole Audit Committee would be required to authorise We considered financial crime policies including anti-bribery assignments.
Competitive tendering willbe used for andanti-corruption, whistleblowing and fraud and discussed substantial work.
how these policies were to be communicated throughout the The audit fees payable to EY in respect of the year ended Group, noting that training had taken place during the year for 31January 2015 are 1,110,000 and non-audit service fees themajority of Senior Managers and that investment was being incurred were 930,900, the latter being heavily influenced made into an IT system which would monitor and provide an by work necessary for the listing.
This equates to a non-audit audit trail for such training.
The proceedings of theGroup to audit fee ratio of 0.84.
The equivalent fees have not been financial crime, data and information security committee provided in respect of the year ended 31 January 2014 as intermsofmonitoring the effectiveness of such policies the Group did not exist in its current form during that year.
arereported to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
We approved the draft policies and recommended that these Excluding fees for services associated with the listing of the be submitted to the Board for consideration and they were Group in May 2014 where EY provided accounting services, duly adopted.
non-audit fees were 216,900, a ratio of 0.20.
The main non-audit fees related to the interim results, assistance with conversion to IFRS and reporting on the Groups debt covenants and its Travel business.
A summary of fees paid to the Auditor is set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on page 129.
Ray King Internal control and Internal Audit Chairman, Audit Committee A key part of our work is the oversight of the Internal Audit function.
This includes reviewing the results of the internal auditors work and the assurance from Internal Audit on its3rd line of defence review of the functioning of the risk management framework.
We also review and monitor managements responsiveness to the internal auditors findings and recommendations.
The function consists of 11people with a broad range of skills: we also purchase auditskills externally for specialised audits.
Our view is thatthe Internal Auditfunction was adequately resourced.
Internal Audits charter setting out the purpose, scope and responsibilities for Internal Audit was noted and supported, and the 2014 15 internal audit plan was discussed, including resource levels within the team and time spent on individual audits and businesses.
Where Internal Audit reviews identify significant areas of business risk we consider the implications and actions required in the Risk Committee.
Saga plc 69 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
