Corporate Governance Statement Nomination Committee Report evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, Philip Green Chairman, Nomination Committee experience and diversity on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment and its expected time commitment review the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board.
Our activities At the centre of our remit is a detailed understanding of the Boards and the Board Committees structure, size and composition.
We have considered this since the Company became a plc and plan to conduct an assessment of the Boards skills, independence and experience including diversity after a full year of operation.
Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to report on the activities of the Nomination Allocation of time spent on matters at Nomination Committee during its first year following the Companys Committee meetings for year ended 31 January 2015 listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Nomination Committee was formed at the time 1.
Board composition 40% oftheIPO and its members are the four independent 2.
Board Committees 1 Non-Executive Directors appointed on listing.
We have composition 40% 3 met on two occasions during the financial year and have 3.
N on-Executive Directors induction 20% considered and made a recommendation regarding the appointment of the new Group Chief Financial Officer 2 Designate, membership and chairmanship of the BoardCommittees.
I am confident that the Nomination Committee will ensure that the Board and Board Committees have the right Our procedures for appointing Directors and leadership skills for the Company as it continues its our policy on diversity long-term growth strategy.
Our terms of reference say how we will go about the Attendance during the year recruitment and appointment of Directors to the Board.
Wewill use open advertising or the services of external Member Attendance advisers to facilitate our search for the best possible candidates Philip Green Chairman 2 2 from a wide range of backgrounds when this is necessary.
Ray King 2 2 We believe it is in the very nature of Saga to recognise the Orna NiChionna 2 2 benefits that diversity brings.
With this in mind our policy is to 1 Gareth Williams 0 2 appoint the best possible candidate, who will be considered 1 on merit and against objective criteria, rather than to set Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
quotas for a particular aspect that may deflect us from achieving this fundamental target every time.
At the date The Company Secretary, Vicki Haynes, attends all meetings ofthis report, 10% of the Board is female.
as secretary to the Committee.
In addition, Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer attends by invitation.
Appointment of Directors The selection of the Non-Executive Directors took place Our terms of reference and main responsibilities before the Company was listed and the Nomination Our full terms of reference, explaining our role and the Committee was created, although their recruitment followed authority delegated by the Board are available on the Saga the principles and provisions of the Code.
co. uk investor-relations The appointments were effective shortly before or from the corporate-governance Companys listing.
An overview of the Director induction Our main responsibilities are to: process has been included in the Effectiveness section of theCorporate Governance Statement on page 62.
For further regularly review the structure, size and composition information, please also refer to Selection of the current including the skills, knowledge, independence, experience Non-Executive Directors on page 62. and diversity of the Board and to make recommendations with regard to any changes give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives, to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board Philip Green Chairman, Nomination Committee Saga plc 63 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
