Corporate governance report Our Governance framework The role of the Board and its commi ees Board Strategy development, growing shareholder value, oversight and control, and corporate governance Our Board provides leadership to the business as a whole to drive it forward for the benefit, and having regard to the views, of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board sets Sages risk appetite and retains overall responsibility for risk management and internal controls systems, ensuring there are processes in place to identify and manage the groups principal risks.
The Board sets the strategy for the business.
It has delegated the authority to manage the business to Stephen Kelly, Chief Executive Ocer, who delegates specic responsibilities to members of the Executive Committee, including the development and implementation of strategy.
The Board also delegates other matters to Board committees and management as appropriate.
Audit and Risk Nomination Commi@ee Remuneration Chief Executive Ocer Commi@ee Committee Executive Committee To oversee the Groups To review the composition To determine the framework, financial reporting, risk of the Board and plan for policy and levels of management and internal its progressive refreshing remuneration and make Developing and control procedures and the with regard to balance recommendations to the implementing strategy, work of its internal and and structure as well Board on the remuneration operational plans, budgets, external auditors.
of the Chief Executive policies and procedures: Ocer, Chairman, executive monitoring operating and directors, the Company financial performance: Secretary and senior assessing and controlling executives.
risks: prioritising and allocating resources: and monitoring competitive forces in each area of Pages69 to 72 Page 73 Pages 74 to 92 operation.
The terms of reference of each Board and Committee meetings and attendance committee, which are reviewed Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee on an annual basis, can be found on our website.
Donald Brydon 6 6 2 2 7 7 Stephen Kelly 6 6 The Board and each commiee Steve Hare 6 6 are satisfied that they receive sucient, reliable and timely Ruth Markland 6 6 4 4 2 2 6 7 information in advance of Drummond Hall 6 6 4 4 2 2 6 7 meetings and are provided Jonathan Howell 6 6 4 4 2 2 7 7 with all necessary resources Neil Berkett 6 6 4 4 2 2 6 7 and expertise to enable them Inna Kuznetsova 6 6 4 4 2 2 6 7 to full their responsibilities and undertake their duties in an eective manner.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of maers reservedfor it for decision.
This schedule is reviewedperiodically, was last reviewed on 28 September 2015 and is available via our website.
64 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
