Executive Commi`ee From left to right: Brendan Flaery, Santiago Solanas, Anna Campopiano, Steve Hare, Stephen Kelly, Ivan Epstein, Sandra Campopiano, Klaus-Michael V ogelberg, Michael Robinson, Marc Scheipe Stephen Kelly 53 Klaus-Michael Vogelberg 50 Chief Executive Ocer, Board of Directors Chief Technology Ocer For Stephen Kellys skills and experience see page 60.
Based: UK Experience: Responsible for Sages global technology strategy and software Steve Hare 54 architecture, Klaus-Michael is also Acting Chief Technology Ocer for Sage Chief Financial Ocer, Board of Directors Europe.
From 2004 to 2007 he was R&D Director for Sage UK and Ireland.
Klaus-Michael joined us when Sage acquired the German KHK Software For Steve Hares skills and experience see page 60. group in 1997, where he was R&D Director and a partner.
Sandra Campopiano 57 A software entrepreneur, Klaus-Michael set-up his first business aged Chief People Ocer 19 while studying aeronautical engineering and national economics.
Klaus-Michael is based in the UK.
Based: UK Experience: Sandrawas appointed asGlobal Chief People Ocer inSeptember 2015and joins us with over 20 years of HR experience in global businesses, including senior leadership roles at Premier Farnell, Arrow Electronics, Barclays, Psion and, most recently, Thomas Cook.
Sandra is also a non-executive Directorat Kingston University.
In 2005 she completed an MBA at the University of Surrey and in 2010 she was awarded human resources directorof the year by HR Magazine, recognising how she led the HR team to support the transformation of Premier Farnell.
Sandra supports the Young Enterprise Women in Business Programme by mentoring and encouraging young female entrepreneurs to start their own business.
62 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Santiago Solanas 47 Brendan Flattery 51 Chief Marketing Ocer President, Europe Based: Spain Based: UK Experience: Santiago was appointed Chief Marketing Ocer in September Experience: In his current role as President, Sage Europe, Brendan is 2014.
He joined Sage in 2007 to lead the Start-up and Small Business Division responsible for leadingSages European business and he has over 25 years in Spain and was appointed Chief Executive Ocer of Sage Spain in 2010. experience across public and private companies in a variety of industries.
During this time he renewed the leadership team, increasing the eciency Brendan has first-hand experience of being involved in a small business.
of the business and returning it to growth, as well as leading the An entrepreneur at heart, he served as Managing Director of two venture Accountants Segment in Europe.
He recently led the roll-out of Sages brand capitalist backed IT businesses, and also successfully ran his own small campaign across Europe.
Prior to Sage, Santiago spent 20 years working in business before joining Sage in 2003 as Managing Director of Sage UK the IT and software industry, across the globe, in sales, marketing and Accountants Segment.
Brendan has worked in every segment of the UKI management roles at IBM, Microsoft and Oracle, where he was responsible business before being appointed CEO of Sage UK and Ireland in 2011 in a for the co-ordination and leadership of the technology business in the SMB role which saw him take a strategic lead for the European Start-up and market in Europe as Senior Director SMB Program Oce EMEA.
Santiago Small Business Segment, Sage Pay and Sage One globally.
Brendan is has also spent 4 years in two technology start-ups backed by Telefonica passionate about supporting peoples success, both within the business and Santander.
Santiago is an active supporter of SMEs.
He is a mentor and for the SMEs we work with.
He is a vocal supporter of SMEs and has for women in business and start-ups, and speaks at a number of SME forums campaigned to close the mentoring gap in the UK and Ireland since 2013. in Spain.
in Telecommunications Engineering from the Brendan graduated from  qualied as a chartered Polytechnic University of Madrid UPM and also attended the Harvard accountant with KPMG.
Business School Advanced Management Program.
Ivan Epstein 55 Anna Campopiano 52 President, International Interim Chief Communications Ocer Based: South Africa Based: UK Experience: Ivan leads Sages businesses across Australia, Africa, the Experience: Anna joined Sage in October 2015 as Interim Chief Middle East, Asia and Latin America, which include some of Sages highest Communications Ocer.
She is responsible for all aspects of the Companys growth countries.
Starting his career at Price Waterhouse, Ivan then communications to colleagues and external stakeholders.
Anna, who has co-founded Softline in 1988, leading it from start-up to a listing on the an Honours Degree in Economics from the University of Manchester and Johannesburg Stock Exchange in 1997.
Softline was delisted and acquired an MBA, joined Sage from Thomas Cook Group where she was Group by Sage in 2003, when Ivan joined the Executive Committee as CEO of the Head of Central Communications for the last three years.
Southern Hemisphere, becoming CEO of AAMEA in 2010.
Amongst his accomplishments, Ivan has been awarded the Ernst & Young South Anna has considerable experience in strategic communications during Africas Best Entrepreneur accolade in 1999 2000 in recognition of his organizational restructurings and is a fellow of the RSA.
Her previous entrepreneurial attributes and contribution to South African business.
experience includes working for a private equity backed technology He was also awarded the Computer Society South Africa IT Personality solutions provider, Vertex, and she was Director of Corporate Aairs at of the Year accolade in 2009 for his contribution to the IT sector.
The London Metal Exchange for four years.
Michael Robinson 54 Marc Scheipe 47 Company Secretary and Group Legal Director Interim President, Sage North America Based: UK Based: US Experience: Michael joined Sage in 2002 as Company Secretary and Group Experience: Marcserves as Interim President and CFO for Sage North Legal Director.
After reading Law at Oxford, Michael qualied as a solicitor America.
Marc is an accomplished business leader, with more than 20 years and spent 15 years at one of the UKs largest law rms.
of financial services experience focused on financial management, strategy development, process improvement and sales operations leadership.
From holding leadership positions at large financial institutions to owning and running a small business, Marc has served in a broad spectrum of roles.
Throughout his career, he has worked extensively with small businesses and entrepreneurs, and brings a unique perspective to his role at Sage.
Marc is a distinguished graduate of the U. S. Naval Academy and earned his MBA from Harvard Business School.
While in the Navy, he attained the rank of lieutenant commander and held various roles in operations, training, and maintenance.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 63
