Directors report Corporate Governance Statement In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing In accordance with the Code and DTR 7.2.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual Governance Statement on pages 39 to 54 is incorporated into Report and Accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set this report by reference.
out in this Directors Report.
Management Report Operations This Directors Report, on pages 70 and 71, together with the The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group operate Strategic Report on pages 10 to 32, form the Management Report through a network of offices and associates throughout the Americas, for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East.
Additional Information Disclosure Results for the year Pursuant to regulations made under the CA2006 the Company is The results for the Group are set out in the consolidated income required to disclose certain additional information.
Those disclosures statement on page 80 which shows a reported profit for the financial not covered elsewhere within this Annual Report are as follows: year attributable to the shareholders of the Company of 64.3m 2014: 62.1m.
Share capital and major shareholdings The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2015 Dividend comprised 137,861,283 2.5p ordinary shares, details of which may An interim dividend of 4p per ordinary share amounting to 5.33m be found on page 124.
It is recommended that a final dividend of 8.0p per ordinary share amounting to 10.68m is paid, The Company has only one class of share capital formed of ordinary together with a supplemental interim dividend of 14.0p per ordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share capital have the share amounting to 18.69m to be declared by the Board on 9 March same rights and each carries one vote.
2016, on 16 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at 15 April 2016.
More details of the proposed dividend and the Companys performance Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or by corporate can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 and 11. representatives in relation to corporate members.
The Articles provide a deadline for the submission of proxy forms electronically or Principal developments by paper of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the The principal developments of the business are detailed in the Strategic holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
Report on pages 10 to 32 and incorporated into this report by reference.
There are no unusual restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 27 to 31 The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated and incorporated into this report by reference.
share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged at the registered office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide Directors accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and Short biographical details of the current Directors are shown on such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to pages 44 and 45.
All the Board members served throughout the year show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: or ii in respect save for Rupert Robson and Nicholas Ferguson who were appointed of only one class of shares.
As at 31 December 2015 the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and five The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share Independent Non-Executive Directors.
whether certificated or uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Rupert Robson was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 23 June 2015.
As at 31 December 2015 the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital in Nicholas Ferguson was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive accordance with DTR 5: Director with effect from 26 January 2016.
Interests in the issued share capital of the Company held at the Shareholders Number of shares % end of the period under review and up to the date of this Report Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 13,942,453 10.11 by the Directors or their families are set out on page 63 of the Old Mutual plc 12,481,157 9.05 Remuneration Report.
Details of share options held by the Directors pursuant to the Companys share option schemes are provided BlackRock, Inc 6,905,345 5.01 in the Remuneration Report on pages 64 and 65.
It is the Boards Artisan Partners Limited 6,530,863 4.74 policy that the GEB Members should retain at least 105,000 shares Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 5,404,296 3.92 value at 31 December 2015: 930,300 in the Company and that the Group Chief Executive retains at least 150,000 shares value at Note: On 26 February 2016, Norges Bank disclosed a shareholding of 3.01%.
No 31 December 2015: 1.33m based on the mid-market share other changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company in accordance price of 886p per share on 31 December 2015 at all times.
with DTR 5, between 31 December 2015 and 9 March 2016.
Directors interests in significant contracts As at 31 December 2015, the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust No Directors were materially interested in any contract of significance.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to these shares are taken by the trustees of the EBT, who Statement of Directors responsibilities may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
The EBT In accordance with the Code and the Disclosure and Transparency waives all but 0.01p per share of its dividend entitlement.
For further Rules DTR DTR4, the Directors Responsibilities Statement is set details of the EBT please refer to Note 2 to the financial statements.
out on page 72 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
70 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements aim at ensuring that all of our staff understand our strategy and to Purchase of own shares build knowledge on the part of employees of matters affecting the In accordance with the Listing Rules, at the AGM on 13 May 2015, performance of the Group.
The Group also consults with employees shareholders gave authority for a limited purchase of Savills shares so as to ascertain their views in relation to decisions which are likely of up to 10% of the issued share capital.
During the year, no shares to affect their interests.
were purchased under the authority.
Employees are able to share in the Groups success through The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM on performance-related profit share schemes see page 68 for more 11 May 2016 to renew the Companys authority to make market details and for UK employees including Executive Directors, share purchases of its own ordinary shares of 2.5p each for cancellation or plans which include a Sharesave Scheme and a Share Incentive Plan to be held in treasury.
Details of the proposed resolution are included SIP.
The Sharesave Scheme is an HMRC approved save-as-youin the Notice of AGM circulated to shareholders with this Annual earn share option scheme which allows participants to purchase Report the AGM Notice.
shares out of the proceeds of a linked savings contract at a price set at the time of option grant.
Participants may elect to save up to 500 Change of control per month and options may normally be exercised in the six months There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or following the maturity of the linked three-year savings contract.
The terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except potential for extending the Sharesave Scheme internationally remains that under its banking arrangements, a change of control may trigger under consideration.
The SIP is also HMRC approved and through an early repayment obligation.
which participants may make regular purchases of shares up to 150 per month which is the current statutory limit from pre-tax Articles of Association income.
Shares under the SIP normally vest after five years free from The Companys Articles are governed by relevant statutes and income tax and national insurance contributions.
may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Human Rights and equal opportunities We support the principles of the UN Universal Declaration The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of Human Rights and the Core Principles of the International of Directors are contained in the Articles.
The powers of the Labour Organization.
Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from time to time.
It is Group policy to provide employment on an equal basis irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or number of Directors shall be not less than three and not more than national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
A Director is not required to hold any shares in the Company by Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from way of qualification.
However, as more fully described on page 63, disabled persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it in accordance with Board policy, the members of the GEB which is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing includes the Executive Directors are expected to build up and employment and to provide training and career development and maintain a shareholding in the Company.
The Board may appoint any promotion to disabled employees.
person to be a Director and such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM when he or she shall then be eligible for reappointment Independent Auditors by the shareholders.
The Articles provide that each Director shall In accordance with Section 489 of the CA2006, a resolution for the retire from office at the third AGM after the AGM at which he or she reappointment of  LLP as Auditors of the was last elected.
A retiring Director shall be eligible for re-election.
Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors of the Company are subject to annual re-election.
Whistle-blowing The Group encourages staff to report any concerns which they feel Annual General Meeting need to be brought to the attention of management.
Whistle-blowing The AGM is to be held at 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD at procedures, which are published on the Groups intranet site, are 12 noon on 11 May 2016: details are contained in the AGM Notice available to staff who are concerned about possible impropriety, circulated to shareholders with this Report.
financial or otherwise, and who may wish to ensure that action is taken without fear or victimisation or reprisal.
Half Year Report Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate Greenhouse Gas Emissions printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, Half Year results Details of the Groups global greenhouse gas emissions for the statements are published on the Companys website.
This is financial year under review can be found on pages 25 and 26 and is consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
incorporated into this report by reference.
Political contributions By order of the Board There were no political contributions during the year 2014: nil.
Chris Lee Employees policies and involvement Group Legal Director & Company Secretary The Directors recognise that the quality, commitment and motivation 9 March 2016 of Savills staff is a key element in the success of the Group: see pages 22 and 23 for more information.
Savills plc The Group provides regular updates covering performance, Registered in England No.
2122174 developments and progress to employees through regular newsletters, video addresses, the Groups intranet, and social media and through formal and informal briefings.
These arrangements also SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 71
