Corporate Governance Statement continued commitments, as noted in his biography on page 44 and was satisfied During the year, the Committee comprised the Independent Nonthat he would be able to meet fully his obligations to the Company, which Executive Directors, together with the Chairman and the Group remains the view of the Committee.
The unanimous recommendation of Chief Executive.
The Committee Chairman is Group Chairman, Peter theCommittee to the Board was that Rupert Robson be appointed Smith save in circumstances where the Chairmans succession asaNon-Executive Director with effect from 23 June 2015. is considered.
Any other Director, the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary or an external adviser may be invited by the In anticipation of the succession of the Chairman, Odgers Berndtson Committee toattend the meetings from time to time, as appropriate.
were appointed during the year from ashortlist of three executive search firms to search for anew Non-Executive Director who would The Committee meets at least twice ayear, or as required, and met succeed Peter Smith on his retirement as Chairman at the close of four times during 2015.
There was full attendance at all meetings by theAGM in May 2016.
Prior to external recruitment consultants being members, as shown in the table on page 42.
Members of the appointed, the qualities and skill set sought for the role as Chairman Committee also attend the Companys AGM at which there is an were agreed by the Board.
The recruitment process was overseen by opportunity tomeet with shareholders.
The Committee Chairman is on the Senior Independent Director.
Following adetailed external search hand toanswer questions in the event that shareholders ask specific Odgers Berndtson compiled along list of potential candidates which questions related to the Nomination Committee and its activities.
was reduced to afinal shortlist by the Committee.
Interviews were heldwith individuals on the short list by the Directors of the Board Committee objective and activities before Nicholas Ferguson was selected as the preferred candidate by The primary objective of the Committee is to review the size and the Committee.
The unanimous recommendation of the Committee composition of the Board and its key Committees and to plan for to theBoard was that Nicholas Ferguson be appointed as aNonitsprogressive refreshing, with regard to balance and structure.
Executive Director, which occurred with effect from 26 January 2016.
The Committee has standing items that it considers regularly under New Directors receive atailored induction as detailed on page 47. its Terms of Reference: for example, the Committee considered and approved Directors potential conflicts of interest and reviewed its Coming year own Terms of Reference which are reviewed at least annually or as The Committee recognises the importance of planning for the future required, e. g. to reflect changes to the UK Corporate Governance and of having asuccession planning policy designed to bring in new Code or as aresult of changes in regulations or best practice.
skills and perspectives to the Board which complement the experience of the existing Board members.
In the coming year the Committee will More detailed information on the role and responsibilities of the continue tokeep the Boards composition under review and consider Committee can be found in the Committees Terms of Reference which how the composition may be enhanced to ensure that the Board can be accessed on the Companys website at www.
continues to reflect the needs of the Company and its shareholders.
Succession planning and diversity Accountability The Company adopts aformal, rigorous and transparent procedure Internal control and risk management for the appointment of new Directors and key Senior Executives with The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal consideration to gender and diversity in its widest sense.
Before controls across the Group.
This responsibility includes the determination making an appointment, the Committee assesses the balance of skills, of the nature and extent of the principal risks the Board is willing to take knowledge, independence, experience and diversity of the Board and, to achieve its strategic objectives and for ensuring that an appropriate in view of this assessment, will draw up adescription ofthe role and culture has been embedded throughout the organisation.
Risk competencies needed, with aview to appointing the best placed management is implemented from the top down.
The Board is individual for the role.
In making arecommendation to the Board on supported by the Audit Committee in discharging its oversight aNon-Executive Director appointment, the Nomination Committee dutieswith regard to internal control and risk management.
specifically considers the expected time commitment ofthe proposed Non-Executive Director and other commitments they may already have.
Whilst the Board is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate culture TheCompany uses recruitment consultants to assist the Committee has been embedded throughout the organisation and establishing indelivering its objectives and responsibilities: and the search firms are and maintaining the Groups system of risk management and internal required to present amix of suitable male and female candidates.
No control to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets Director is involved indecisions regarding his or her own succession.
and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system, such asystem is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Activity during the year business objectives and can provide only reasonable andnot absolute During the year, the Committee focused on succession planning and in assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Furtherdetails of the doing so, it considered the tenure, mix and diversity of skills and experience risk management process, the principal risks anduncertainties faced of existing Board members and those of prospective Board members in by the Group and the associated mitigating actions are set out on the context of the Groups strategy.
The Committee agreed that it would pages 27 to 31. be appropriate to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director to ensure that the Board, as awhole, had an appropriate range of skills, experience The Boards attitude and appetite to risk is communicated to the and knowledge to support the future development of the business.
In the Groups businesses through the strategy planning processes.
The Audit search for prospective Non-Executive Directors, the Nomination Committee Committee monitors the ongoing status and progress of action plans retained independent executive search firm Spencer Stuart as recruitment against key risks on aregular basis and reports its findings to the Board.
The Committee agreed theprocess, mandate and timetable with Spencer Stuart and oversaw the selection process.
Spencer Stuart Going concern were asked to compile along listof potential candidates which was The Groups business activities, together with the factors considered reduced to afinal shortlist of fourcandidates by the Committee.
The four likely to affect its future development, performance and position candidates were then interviewed by Peter Smith and the Group Chief are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 32.
Rupert Robson wasidentified as the preferred candidate and position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing then met with the otherCommittee members.
In considering the facilities are described on pages 37 and 38.
In addition, Note 3 to appointment, the Nomination Committee considered Ruperts ability to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and make the appropriate time available to the Company in the light of his other processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management 48 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, Audit Committee Report and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, including a250m committed revolving credit facility augmented by a50m accordion option which can be activated to increase the facility that runs to December 2020.
The Group has abroad geographic presence, service offering and extensive client spread ensuring that the Group is not over-dependent on one geography, service line or client.
As aconsequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Liz Hewitt Chair of the After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have areasonable Audit Committee expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue as agoing concern for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in This report details the Committees major considerations and preparing the Report and Accounts.
activities during the 2015 financial year in ensuring that the Companys governance processes remain appropriate, robust, Relations with shareholders ofa high standard and are rigorously applied.
Dialogue with shareholders The Group recognises the importance of maintaining regular The Audit Committee has akey role in ensuring the integrity of the dialoguewith its shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Groups financial statements, internal controls and effectiveness Chief Financial Officer lead aregular programme of meetings and of its risk management processes.
The Audit Committee also has presentations with analysts and investors, including presentations arole in representing the interests of shareholders by monitoring following the publication of the Companys full and half year results.
the activities and conduct of management and the auditors.
The This programme maintains acontinuous two-way dialogue between principal changes to the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Company and shareholders, and helps to ensure that the Board extended the Boards responsibilities to undertake arobust isaware of shareholders views on atimely basis.
The Board also assessment of the principal risks associated with the Companys normally receives feedback twice each year from its corporate brokers business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: and on investors and the markets perceptions of the Company.
The requires astatement of the longer-term prospects and viability Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are also available to of the Company, as well as monitoring the Companys risk meet shareholders if so required.
The Company has enjoyed and is management and internal controls systems.
appreciative of the significant shareholder support that it has enjoyed in recent years in relation to the Groups remuneration policy, The During the year, the Committee reviewed the principal risks and Company continues to welcome shareholder views with regard to risk appetite, to ensure the alignment of these with the Companys the Groups Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Committee strategic objectives.
It monitored the effectiveness of the control gives due consideration to such views when raised.
Details of the environment through the review of reports from Internal Audit, Companys response to any shareholder views raised would be management and the External Auditors and ensured the quality of included in the relevant years Remuneration Report.
the Companys financial reporting by reviewing the 2014 Report and Accounts and the Half Year Financial Statements, and subsequently Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting in 2016 the Companys 2015 Report and Accounts.
The Committee The AGM provides the Board with avaluable opportunity to considered the processes supporting the assessment of the communicate with private shareholders and is generally attended Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity in support of the viability byallof the Directors.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask statement.
The Committee agreed that three years was the questions before and during the meeting and to meet Directors following appropriate period for the assessment of the viability statement the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
In accordance with as this is the timescale of the Groups strategic planning process.
theCode, the level and manner of voting of proxies lodged on each The Committee will continue to monitor its own activities in the resolution at the AGM is declared at the meeting and published on the light of regulatory and best practice developments.
The outcome of the votes cast at the 2015 AGM inrespect of the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report can be found on page 66.
The Directors aim to give as much notice of the AGM and The key matters considered in the year are set out on other general meetings as possible, which is at least 20 working days pages 51 and 52. before the AGM and at least 14 working days before other general meetings in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the content of this years Annual Report and Accounts and has advised the Board that Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2016 AGM can be found in its view the Report taken as awhole is in its opinion fair, in the AGM Notice which accompanies this Report and Accounts.
balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, In accordance with the Articles of Association, electronic and paper performance, business model and strategy.
proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before ageneral meeting.
The Committee noted the unqualified opinion from the External Auditors on the 2015 Annual Report.
The Company has taken advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 which allow communications with On behalf the Audit Committee, I would like to take the shareholders to be made electronically where shareholders have not opportunity to thank Martin Angle, who served as Chair of the requested hard copy documentation.
Details of the information available Audit Committee until May 2015, for his work for, and guidance of to shareholders can be found on page 140.
Information about the the Committee.
Company is also available on the Companys website www.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 49 Corporate Governance Statement continued Composition Meetings The Committee is acore element of the Companys governance Attendance table framework.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Liz Hewitt.
Liz Hewitt became Committee Chairman when Martin Angle stood down as The Committee met four times during the year and the Committee Chairman at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Three attendance at the meetings is shown in the table below: independent Non-Executive Directors, Liz Hewitt and previously Martin Angle, Tim Freshwater and Rupert Robson are members of Meetings the Committee.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Meetings eligible to Committee member attended attend Board following recommendations by the Nomination Committee and membership is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee Liz Hewitt Chair from 13 May 2015 4 4 as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
Tim Freshwater 4 4 Martin Angle Chair until 13 May 2015 4 4 All members of the Committee receive induction including an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks, and Rupert Robson 2 3 meetings with senior management.
Committee members are Rupert Robson was appointed as aDirector of the Company and member expected to have an understanding of the principles of, and of the Committee on 23 June 2015. recent developments in, financial reporting and internal controls, risk management, and internal and external audit roles and As at 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this Report, the Audit Committee was comprised entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers the Committee members to have recent and relevant financial experience as per the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Biographical Role, main objectives and responsibilities details of the Committee members are shown on page 44.
The Committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties Martin Angle retires as a member of the Committee at the Committees March and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control, the risk 2016 meeting.
management process and in making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the External Auditors.
The Committee is responsible for the scope and results of the external audit work, The Chair of the Committee meets informally, and is in regular its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the contact with the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Director of Risk External Auditors.
& Internal Audit and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
This Group develops the Committees proposed annual work plan The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its for consideration by the Committee and generally meets ahead of Terms of Reference a copy of which can be found in the governance each full Committee meeting to prepare and identify key areas for section of the Companys website at www.
aspx and has access to the consideration by the Committee.
The Committee meets separately services of the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and, with the Group Chief Financial Officer, the External Auditors and where necessary, the authority to obtain external legal or other the Group Director of Risk & Internal Audit without management independent professional advice to fulfil its duties.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleThe Non-Executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief blowing arrangements, including ensuring that appropriate Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Director of Risk arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise in &Internal Audit and Group Legal Director & Company Secretary confidence matters of alleged impropriety and for ensuring attend each meeting, as does the lead audit partner from the that appropriate follow-up actions are taken.
Other senior executives from across the Group are invited to present reports to assist the Audit Committee Activities of the Committee in discharging its duties.
To enable the Committee to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively it works to aplanned programme of activities focused The Chair of the Committee also attends the AGM to respond to on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle.
This work shareholder questions on its activities.
includes items that the Committee considers regularly under its Terms of Reference.
The Committee relies on information and support from management across the business, receiving reports and presentations from, business management, the heads of key Group functions, the Internal and External Auditors, which it challenges as appropriate, and reports its findings to the Board.
50 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements How the Committee discharged its The principal activities of the Committee during the year are Responsibilities responsibilities Mar Jun Aug Dec set outbelow: Internal Considered and approved the remit How the Committee discharged its Audit of the internal audit function and the Responsibilities responsibilities Mar Jun Aug Dec 2015 internal audit plan Financial Reviewed and discussed the key Received and considered reports Reporting accounting considerations and from the Groups Internal Audit judgements reflected in the Groups teamcovering various aspects of results for the half year theGroups operations, controls Reviewed and discussed the andprocesses and monitored the key accounting considerations progress made by management and judgements reflected in the inaddressing recommendations Groups results arising out of these reports Reviewed going concern status Monitored and reviewed the and considered whether any asset effectiveness of the Groups internal impairments were required audit function in the context of the Reviewed the viability statement Groups overall risk management arrangements External Agreed the external audit strategy Audit and scope Met with the Group Director of Risk and Assurance without Considered and where appropriate management present todiscuss approved the instruction of the GroupsExternal Auditors on their remit and any concerns non-auditassignments Internal Reviewed the effectiveness of the Reviewed and considered the Controls Groups risk management system External Auditors Report, including and Risk and internal controls in place to the External Auditors observations Management manage the Groups principal risks onthe Groups InternalControl Systems environment Reviewed and considered the Groups risk register and advised Discussed the External Auditors the Board on riskappetite performance and fee during the year Reviewed the work and Met with the External Auditors effectiveness of the Group without management present RiskCommittee todiscuss their remit and anyconcerns Reviewed risk management Assessed the External Auditors arrangements for the Groups independence and recommended regional businesses byinviting their re-appointment by the Board presentations from the Heads and Chief Financial Officers of the Compliance, Reviewed the Groups arrangements Principal Businesses Whistle by which staff can, in confidence, blowing raise concerns about possible Other Reviewed the Committees own andFraud improprieties in matters of financial performance, constitution and terms reporting or othermatters.
of reference, and recommended any TheCommittee wouldalso consider changes the Committee considers any reports made under these necessary for Board approval arrangements, but none were madeduring the year SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 51 Corporate Governance Statement continued Matter considered Action Audit Committee agenda in 2015 During the year, in addition to its established review processes, the Management The Committee considered the presumed risk of Committees work included the reconfirmation ofthe Groups risk override of management override of internal controls as defined appetite and consideration of the risk management policies applied internal by the Auditing Standards.
In so doing, the Committee to the Groups Valuation Practices.
The Committee also considered controls reviewed the robustness and effectiveness of the the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups longer-term overall control environment of the Group, including solvency and liquidity which support the new viability statement, consideration of the Groups whistle-blowing and considered and provided input into the determination of which arrangements and the reviews conducted by the of the Groups principal risks might have animpact on the Groups Internal and External Auditors, and was satisfied longer-term solvency and liquidity.
Italsoreviewed the results of thatthere were no issues arising.
managements scenario modelling, including severe downside Impairment The Committee received reports from management on modelling, and the stress testing of those models.
of goodwill the carrying value of the Groups businesses, including goodwill.
The Committee reviewed managements At the June meeting, the Committee reviewed the Groups continuing recommendations, which were also considered by compliance with the AIFM control environment in the context of the theExternal Auditors, including evaluation of the Groups investment management business toensure continuing appropriateness of the assumptions applied in compliance with the legislation.
After review, the Committee was satisfied with the assumptions and Financial reporting and significant accounting issues judgements applied by management and, with the As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, support of the External Auditors, concluded that the Committee considers the appropriateness of the accounting noimpairments were required.
policies proposed for adoption and whether management has madeappropriate estimates and judgements.
To support Presumed The Committee considered the presumed risk of its decisionmaking, the Committee seeks support from the risk of fraud fraudas defined by the Auditing Standards and ExternalAuditors in these areas.
in revenue wassatisfied that there were no issues arising.
recognition The significant accounting issues considered by the Committee Provisions The Committee reviewed the provisions held in relation anddiscussed with the External Auditors during the year were: forlitigation to each significant legal case and assessed the appropriateness of these as at 31 December 2015 taking into account the Groups insurance cover and the advice received from external counsel to ensure that appropriate provision had been made.
The Committee agreed with the position taken by management in respect of these matters.
Accounting The Committee considered the accounting treatment for of the acquisition of the business of Smiths Gore by acquisitions the Group on 31 May 2015 for atotal payment of up to 37.3m.
The Committee also considered the accounting treatment of the acquisition of SEB Asset Management AG by Savills Investment Management on 31 August 2015 for atotal payment of up to 21.5m.
Regulatory During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups compliance policies and procedures around regulatory risks, obligations including but not limited to: whistle-blower reports: anti-bribery and corruption procedures:and the Groups Client Acceptance procedures, with particular reference to the Groups Anti-Money Laundering procedures.
The Committee was satisfied that no significant issues had been identified in this area.
52 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Internal Audit The integrity of the Groups relationship with the External The provision of Internal Audit services during 2015 was delivered Auditor and the effectiveness of the External Audit process by the Groups Internal Audit team with support from athird-party The Committee carried out areview of the effectiveness of the service provider.
The Boards responsibility for internal control external audit process and considered the reappointment of and risk is detailed on page 40 and is incorporated into this  LLP PwC and the appropriateness Report by reference.
The review covered abroad range of matters including amongst other matters, the quality of PwC staff, its expertise, resources and the independence of the PwC audit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the Internal Audit plan, having regard to the complementary roles of the Internal The Committee considered the audit plan for the year and assessed Audit function and External Auditors.
The Committee ensured how the External Auditors had performed.
In deciding whether to that the Internal Audit team had the necessary resources and recommend the reappointment of PwC the Committee considered information made available to it to enable it to fulfil its mandate to the robustness of their challenge and findings on areas which require the appropriate professional standards.
The Committee reviewed judgement, the strength and depth of the lead partners and Internal Audit reports on aregular basis and the Group Director feedback from the Groups management.
of Risk & Assurance attended meetings and presented to the Committee.
In assessing the performance of the Internal Audit There were no significant findings arising from the evaluation this function, the Committee considered and monitored its effectiveness year and the Committee concluded that both the audit and the audit in the context of the Companys risk management system and took process were effective.
The Committee recommended to the Board into account managements assessment of and responsiveness to that PwC be reappointed as External Auditors for afurther year the Internal Auditors findings and recommendations and reports and aresolution recommending their reappointment will be put to from the External Auditors on any issues identified during the course shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC has amended the UK Assessment of Risk Management and Internal Control Corporate Governance Code to require audit tendering every The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board undertook a robust 10years on acomply or explain basis for FTSE 350 companies.
review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control.
In performing its review of effectiveness, On 26 September 2014, the Competition Commission CC, now the Committee reviewed and assessed the following reports the Competition Markets Authority CMA, published its final Order and activities: on mandatory audit tendering for FTSE 350 companies such as Savills.
This Order came into effect on 1 January 2015 and applies internal audit reports on the review of the controls across the to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and therefore Group and the monitoring of management actions arising from applies to the year which is subject to this Annual Report.
The these reviews: Order confirms that FTSE 350 companies will need to undertake managements own assessment of risk and the performance of a tendering process in respect of their statutory audit services at the system of risk management and internal control during 2015: least every 10 years.
Furthermore, if a company has not completed reports from the Group Director of Risk & Assurance including a tendering appointment process of statutory auditors for five reports on Group-wide risk assessment activity and annual consecutive financial years, the Order requires the Audit Committee self-assessment findings: and of such company to state in its annual report when the company reports from the External Auditors on any issues identified intends to conduct the tender and why such proposed date is in the during the course of their work.
best interests of the company and such statement must be repeated in each subsequent report until a competitive tender is conducted.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the Committee was satisfied that necessary actions have The requirement for conducting mandatory audit tenders every been, or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or 10years is subject to transitional arrangements set out in the weaknesses identified.
Order and, accordingly, this requirement does not apply to PwCs proposed reappointment as External Auditors which will be proposed to the shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 53 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Committee will be reviewing the Companys audit tender In accordance with the Groups policy, the following non-audit timetable and processes as part of a wider review of the Order and in services may not be provided by the ExternalAuditors: preparation for the audit tender which will be carried out at the end of the next lead audit partner term in 2020.
The Committee concluded, bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records following its review of the external audit process in 2015, that PwC or financial statements: remained objective and independent whilst at the same time having financial information systems design and implementation: considerable knowledge and experience of the Group and providing Internal Audit outsourcing services: expert services.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the management functions or human resources advice: or proposed retender of audit services in 2020 is in the best interests advising on senior executive including Executive Director of the shareholders of the Company.
The EU has approved new EU-wide audit legislation for audit To further safeguard the independence of the Companys External Auditors and the integrity of the audit process, recruitment of firm tendering requirements.
The FRC is now considering senior employees from the External Auditors is not allowed the implementation of these changes, including transitional for an appropriate period after they cease to provide services arrangements.
The FRC is also proposing changes to its Ethical to the Company.
Standards for Auditors and to its Auditing Standards.
Disclosure of relevant audit information PwC has been the Companys Auditor since 2001 following atender The Directors confirm that, insofar as they are each aware, there is for the external audit.
The senior partner responsible is rotated every no relevant audit information of which PwC is unaware and each five years to ensure objectivity and the last lead partner change took Director has taken the steps that ought to have been taken as place in 2011.
At the close of the 2015 audit a new audit partner will aDirector to be aware of any relevant audit information and have lead responsibility for the external audit.
The transition to the to establish that PwC is aware of that information.
new audit partner has already started.
Auditor Independence The Committee recognises the importance of external auditor objectivity and monitors their independence.
The Committee has established policies to consider the appropriateness of appointing the External Auditors to perform non-audit services, and whether the External Auditors are the most suitable supplier.
During the year, PwC was paid 1.4m for audit services and 1.2m for non-audit services, principally for advice on taxation and transaction-related matters.
Details of the fees paid to the External Auditors can be found in Note 7.3 on page 99.
Contracts for nonaudit services in excess of 0.1m require Committee approval and the Chair of the Audit Committee is notified of new instructions for the delivery of non-audit services below this level.
The Committee is satisfied that in view of their knowledge and experience of the Company, PwC was best placed to provide such non-audit services and that their objectivity and independence has not been impaired by reason of this further work.
In line with the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit work, the Committee will review the provision of non-audit work provided by the External Auditors on acase-by-case basis.
54 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
