Corporate Governance Statement continued 1 4 7 2 5 8 3 6 9 Board of Directors 1.
Peter Smith Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Pennon and latterly 3i as aprivate equity investor.
She qualified as Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman of the Group plc, OAO Severstal, Shuaa Capital psc Dubai, aChartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
Nomination Committee Chairman of The National Exhibition Group, and Vice Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Melrose Chairman and Treasurer of FIA Foundation.
Industries Plc and Novo Nordisk A S. Senior Independent Appointment to the Board: Peter was appointed to the Board Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration member of the House of Lords Audit Committee.
as aNon-Executive Director on 24 May 2004 and was elected andNomination Committees.
Chairman with effect from 1 November 2004.
Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Background and relevant experience: Formerly UK Senior 5.
Charles McVeigh Partner of  PwC, Peter served for Independent Non-Executive Director two years as Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand International and 8.
Rupert Robson as amember of the global leadership team of PwC.
He served Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Appointment to the Board: Charles was appointed to the as Chairman ofRAC plc and Templeton Emerging Markets Remuneration Committee Board as aNon-Executive Director on 1 August 2000.
Investment Trust plc, andwas aNon-Executive Director of Safeway plc andtheEquitable Life Assurance Society.
Background and relevant experience: Formerly, he was Appointment to the Board: Rupert was appointed to the Co-Chairman of Citigroups European Investment Bank and Board as aNon-Executive Director on 23 June 2015.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Associated served on the Boards of Witan Investment Company plc, British Foods plc and Rothschild & Co SCA.
Background and relevant experience: Rupert has held Clearstream, the London Stock Exchange, LIFFE, British anumber of senior roles in financial institutions, most recently Committee membership: Remuneration and American Business Inc and was amember of boththe Chairman of Charles Taylor plc and Non-Executive Director NominationCommittees.
Development Board and Advisory Council of the Princes of London Metal Exchange Holdings Limited, Tenet Group Trust, he was also aNon-Executive Director of Petropavlovsk Limited and OJSC Nomos Bank.
Prior to that he was Global plc until mid 2015.
He was appointed by the Bank of England 2.
Jeremy Helsby Head, Financial Institutions Group, Corporate Investment to serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and theLegal Group Chief Executive Banking and Markets at HSBC and Head of European Risk Review Committee and was amember of the Fulbright Insurance, Investment Banking at Citigroup Global Markets.
Charles hasrecently become Chairman of Appointment to the Board: Jeremy joined Savills in1980 Rubicon Fund Management, asuccessful London based Other appointments: Chairman of Tullett Prebon plc, and was appointed to the Board in 1999. hedge fund.
Chairman of Charles Taylor plc, Sanne Group plc and EMF Background and relevant experience: He was Chairman Capital Partners Other appointments: A Senior Adviser at Citigroup, Charles and Chief Executive Officer of Savills Commercial and Savills also serves on the Board of EFG-Hermes andis aTrustee of Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration and Europe for seven years until he was appointed asGroup Chief the Landmark Trust and the Natural History Museum Nomination Committees.
Tim Freshwater Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director 3.
Simon Shaw Chairman Designate Group Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed to the Board Appointment to the Board: Nicholas was appointed to the Appointment to the Board: Simon joined Savills as as aNon-Executive Director on 1 January 2012.
Board as a Non-Executive Director on 26 January 2016 and GroupChief Financial Officer in March 2009.
Background and relevant experience: Tim is Chairman will become Chairman when Peter Smith retires from the Background and relevant experience: Simon is aChartered ofGoldman Sachs Asia Bank Limited and was formerly Board in May 2016 at the conclusion of the Companys AGM.
Chairman of Corporate Finance for Goldman Sachs Asia.
He was formerly Chief Financial Officer of Gyrus Background and relevant experience: Nicholas has held a Group PLC, aposition he held for five years until its sale to the He was also Chairman of Grosvenor Asia Pacific Limited until number of leadership roles in the private equity and investment 2013.
Before joining Goldman Sachs, Tim worked at Jardine Olympus Corporation.
Simon wasChief Operating Officer of sectors.
He was co-founder of Schroder Ventures the private Profile Therapeutics plc forfive years and also worked as Fleming, becoming Group Chairman in 1999, and was equity group which later became Permira of which he served apartner at Slaughter and May from 1975 to 1996. acorporate financier, latterly at Hambros Bank Limited.
He later served as Chairman Other appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Aquarius of SVG Capital plc, a publicly quoted private equity group, Platinum Limited, Swire Pacific Limited and Hong Kong Synairgen plc.
Other appointments: Nicholas has been Chairman of Sky Plc Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration and 4.
Martin Angle since April 2012, having been appointed to the board as a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Nomination Committees.
Non-Executive Director in June 2004 and having previously served as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Appointment to the Board: Martin was appointed to the Non-Executive Director.
He is also currently Chairman of Alta 7.
Liz Hewitt Board on 2 January 2007 and replaced Timothy Ingram as the Advisers Limited, an investment advisory firm and Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director from 9May 2012. and founder of Kilfinan Group, which provides mentoring by Audit Committee Chairman and CEOs to heads of charities.
Background and relevant experience: Formerly, hewas Group Finance Director of TI Group plc and held various Appointment to the Board: Liz was appointed to the Board Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration and as aNon-Executive Director on 24 June 2014. executive roles with Terra Firma Capital Partners and its Nomination Committees.
portfolio companies, including TheWaste Recycling Group Background and relevant experience: Liz was previously Executive Chairman and Le Meridien Hotel Group Deputy Group Director, Corporate Affairs of Smith & Nephew plc Chairman.
Prior tothat he held anumber of senior positions between 2004 and 2011, and prior to 2004, was adirector ininvestment banking with S G Warburg & Co. Morgan of 3i plc having spent her early career with Gartmore, CVC Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort.
44 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
