Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction Charles McVeigh, notwithstanding his long service.
We are pleased that, as confirmed by this years Board evaluation, good progress has been made against the actions that the Board set itself for 2015 and we are confident that your Board has the right balance of skills, experience and diversity of personality to continue to encourage Peter Smith open, transparent debate and challenge.
Chairman of Savills plc Appointments and succession We recognise the importance of planning for the future and with the support of the Nomination Committee we have continued to develop Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
As aBoard the Board this year.
Our corporate strategy and business model are we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate underpinned by asuccession planning policy designed to progressively governance and understand that an effective, challenging and diverse bring new skills and different perspectives to the Board and to Board is essential to enable the Group to deliver its strategy and complement the experience of our longer serving Directors so as long-term shareholder value.
Further information on our strategy to achieve an appropriate balance and position us to continue to andbusiness model can be found on pages 10 to 32. challenge and debate corporate strategy.
We continue to work hard to maintain aculture where doing the right During the year, the Nomination Committee and the Board agreed that it thing is at the core of how we do business.
The Board recognises would be appropriate to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director to the importance of setting the right tone at the top in order to guide further expand the range of skills, experience and knowledge available our peoples behaviour and ensure that we live by and demonstrate to the Board.
I am pleased to report that, following an extensive search the right values which in turn enable entrepreneurial and prudent process supported by an independent specialist search firm as set management to deliver long-term success for the Group and its out in detail in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 47 and 48, stakeholders.
We fully recognise that at the heart of every successful on 23June 2015 Rupert Robson was appointed as aNon-Executive organisation is astrong and healthy culture supported by a robust Director.
Rupert has extensive experience which will complement and governance structure.
As the custodian of Savills culture, the Board further enhance the wide-ranging skills and experience of the Board and demands openness and transparency to maintain an environment its Committees and Rupert succeeded Tim Freshwater as Chairman of inwhich honesty, integrity and fairness are valued and practised by the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2015. our people every day.
Our Code of Conduct is readily accessible in all local languages to all staff to support their day to day decision In addition, during the year, the Nomination Committee, under making.
We demand the highest professional standards from all of the leadership of Martin Angle as Senior Independent Director, our people all of the time and we have azero tolerance approach commenced the search for afurther independent Non-Executive tobreaches of the Code of Conduct.
Director who would succeed me as Chairman when I retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in May.
This search, which In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC concluded in January 2016 with the appointment of Nicholas published the latest addition of the Corporate Governance Code Ferguson to the Board, was also supported by an independent, the Code which included anumber of changes relating to risk specialist search firm.
I am very much looking forward to working management, internal controls and the longer term viability of with Nicholas to ensure asmooth handover.
I have served as Chairman companies.
A viability statement is therefore included in this Annual for over ten years which has been aperiod of considerable growth at Report and can be found within the Strategic Report on page 31.
I have no doubt that under Nicholas leadership I am leaving the Company in good hands.
I would like to give my personal thanks The Main Principles of the Code provide the framework for the to everyone I have worked with over the years as Chairman.
The reporting model which we have used for the last two years.
Our process for selecting Nicholas as the new Chairman is set out in approach to: Leadership and Effectiveness is described on pages detail in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 47 and 48.
40 to 48: relations with shareholders is described on page 49: and Accountability is described on pages 48 to 54.
On behalf of my fellow Directors I would like to welcome Rupert and Nicholas to the Board.
Martin Angle will be retiring from the Board Board and Committee composition at the conclusion ofthe AGM in May and Tim Freshwater will be Ensuring that we do the right thing in the right way requires the right replacing him as Senior Independent Director.
I would like to offer my leadership and it is important in my role as Chairman to ensure that the thanks to Martin Angle for his contribution to the Group and the Audit Board has the right blend of skills and experience.
As an international Committee over the last nine years.
business, we benefit from our Non-Executive Directors knowledge of and involvement with businesses in Hong Kong and China, the At least half of the Board members throughout the year were Middle East, Europe, and the US.
The Board is collectively responsible independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman.
for the long-term success of the Company and how it is directed Details of all the current Directors, their skills and experience are and controlled, so our performance is thoroughly tested through set out on page 44.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will an annual Board evaluation.
This is facilitated by an independent stand for re-election or re-appointment as applicable at the Annual external consultant at least once every three years.
The last externally General Meeting AGM on 11 May 2016 with the exception of facilitated review was in respect of 2013, so this years evaluation was myself and Martin Angle who are retiring from the Board.
It being again conducted in-house, led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
The process and key their first AGM, Rupert Robson and Nicholas Ferguson will be conclusions are explained on page 46.
Following this review, I am subject to re-appointment by the shareholders at the AGM.
satisfied that the Board is performing effectively.
Diversity The Board also reviews Non-Executive Director independence on We believe that adiverse culture is an essential factor to the success an annual basis and takes into account the individuals professional of the business, and we fully support the Davies Reports aspiration characteristics, their behaviour at Board meetings and their contribution to promote greater female representation on listed company boards.
to unbiased and independent debate.
All of the Non-Executive During the year, the Board had one female Non-Executive Director, Directors are considered by the Board to be independent, including representing 20% of Non-Executive Board membership excluding SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 39
