Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Resources and relationships KEY HIGHLIGHTS IN 2015 PEOPLE CLIENTS ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY We: We: We: We: Rebranded and further Maintained our commitment Established the Savills Global Retained our membership of developed our training to delivering the high quality Sustainability Group.
FTSE4Good, evidencing our programme, and launched services expected by our Trained 600 staff in commitment to meeting our Future Leaders clients and demanded by our sustainability issues globally recognised programme in the US.
business by building on the acrossthe business.
corporate responsibility Participated in the UK strength of our existing Further expanded the number standards.
Best Companies to Work cross-border and intraof our offices withinthe scope for Employment regional service capacity, by of our global greenhouse gas Engagement survey.
sharing best practice and emissions reporting into our Launched the Diversity experiences and by listening environmental processes.
Group in the UK, to client feedback.
Introduced third party supporting Changing the Continuously improved our verification as part of our global Face of Property group client service by promoting greenhouse gas emission andinvesting in the Savills our client advocate roles and reporting.
expanding our client care programme.
OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY PRIDE IN EVERYTHING TAKE AN ENTREPRENEURIAL HELP OUR PEOPLE FULFIL ALWAYS ACT WITH WE DO APPROACH TO BUSINESS THEIR TRUE POTENTIAL INTEGRITY We: We: We: We: Take great pride in Seek out new markets and Encourage an open and Behave responsibly.
delivering the highest opportunities for clients.
supportive culture in which Act with honesty and quality service.
Take a creative and every individual is respected.
entrepreneurial approach Help our people to excel Adhere to the highest Seek to employ only todelivering value.
through appropriate training standards of professional the best people.
Are forward thinking, and anddevelopment.
always aim to build long-term Share success and reward client relationships.
Aim to be a leader in every Recognise that our peoples market we enter.
diverse strengths combined withgood teamwork produce the best results.
Believe that a rewarding workplace inspires and motivates.
Strive to provide an environment in which our people can flourish and succeed this allows us to recruit, motivate and retain talented people and build on our status as an employer of choice.
Engage with our people to communicate our vision and strategy through well established internal channels.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 21 Resources and relationships continued People Throughout this Report we refer to the importance of our people.
They The FTSE Group confirms that Savills plc has been are key to our continued success.
It is our vision to be the real estate independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good adviser of choice in our selected markets and deliver superior financial criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to remain performance and this can only be achieved through the dedication, aconstituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
commitment and excellence of our people.
Createdby the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed Savills is committed to providing employment on an equal basis to facilitate investment in companies that meet irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, globallyrecognised corporate responsibility gender reassignment, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index or belief, disability or age.
We support the Core Conventions of the Series have met stringent environmental, social and International Labour Organization.
governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
Our people strategy remains focused on supporting delivery of the highest standards of client service through motivated and engaged people.
We believe that a positive culture is essential to high quality client service.
This positive culture is encapsulated in our business philosophy BREEAM is a registered trademark of BRE the and our values.
Our reputation has been built on our people and we Building Research Establishment Ltd. Community believe that staff whose behaviours reflect in our business philosophy Trade Mark E5778551.
The BREEAM marks, deliver the excellent client service that we strive to provide.
Our business logosand symbols are the Copyright of BRE philosophy also captures our commitment to ethical, professional and andare reproduced by permission.
responsible conduct and our entrepreneurial value-enhancing approach.
Corporate responsibility at Savills The following sections highlight our progress in the key areas behind our Corporate responsibility CR is our commitment to the positive impact people strategy.
that our business can make, through our people, to our stakeholders and the communities in which we live and work.
Increasing employee engagement In 2015 we asked our employees in the UK to participate in the Best Overall responsibility for our CR programme sits with the Group Companies to Work for Employee Engagement survey, a people survey ChiefExecutive and the Board.
CR strategy is overseen by our CR which allows us to measure and compare ourselves against other large Steering Group, comprising senior representatives from a range organisations and helps to identify ways to improve how we do things.
CR strategy is implemented and Over 400 companies and 540,000 employees participated.
We have delivered at country level across the four areas of CR which we beenrecognised as reaching One Star Status, demonstrating our believeare key to the success of our business and where we believe commitment to progressive and engagingemployment practices.
we can make the most difference: People, Clients, Environment and Thisyear, we have focused on theareas highlighted for improvement Community.
By focusing on these key areas we give our businesses and we intend to repeat the Best Companies Survey in 2016. the freedom to adapt quickly and to respond at local level to new opportunities in the markets in which they operate.
The Board receives Developing our people for the long term annual and ad hoc updates on CR activities and progress.
To ensure We want people to grow their careers at Savills and develop the skills that we can readily identify emerging issues and respond to them on and talent needed to grow our business.
We firmly believe in the value atimely basis, we continue to include the consideration ofCR-related ofdeveloping future talent from within the Group and the wider business issues in our Key Risk Registers.
community and we are working hard to help nurture the entrepreneurs and leaders of the future.
Policy Savills is committed to being a good corporate citizen in all aspects We continue to invest significantly in the development of all our people, ofitsoperations and activities.
The Company, therefore, holds itself for whom we recognise that career development and progression is accountable for its social, environmental and economic impacts onthe very important.
In the UK, we rebranded and restructured our training people and places where it does business.
We invested in a dedicated Training Suite at our City office these impacts in a responsible and sustainable manner.
To fulfil this and achieved our first award for our flagship course, Savills Raising the aimthe Group actively embraces a range of policies and practices Bar.
During the year, we also expanded our leadership programme to thataim to foster a positive approach towards corporate responsibility our European businesses.
as an integral part of our day to day activities.
Our CR policy focuses on those key areas where we believe we canmake a difference.
All of our businesses are expected to complywith local legal standards as an absolute minimum, while ourestablished global framework provides the flexibility required to havemeaning and impact at local level.
AtSavills, we learn through experience and we actively encourage our businesses to share their experiences and develop best practiceto ensure that we continue toimprove as an organisation.
22 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements We believe that creating an inclusive and diverse culture supports We now deliver training and development in all areas including theattraction and retention of talented people and supports effective management and leadership, client and business skills and professional performance.
We respect our people for who they are, their knowledge, and technical skills.
We recognise that personal development occurs skills and experience as individuals and as valued members of the Savills inmany ways and we encourage all our staff to attend conferences, team.
We work together to bring out the best in each other and to sustain internal events, and participate in projects to supplement their the strong working relationship ethic that has nurtured our can do Continuous Professional Development CPD.
The format of our training attitude.
As at 31 December 2015 our total global workforce of 30,692 varies from one-hour masterclasses, webinars, video content, to two-day colleagues comprised 16,262 males and 14,430 females.
Of these, 179 pitching courses and management and leadership workshops.
We were senior executives 166 males, 13 females comprising members of encourage and support all our staff to complete their CPD and all our the Group Executive Board and Board members of the corporate entities internal courses programmes have CPD points associated with them.
whose financial information is incorporated in the Groups 2015 All of this is supported by a dedicated training team, who offer individual consolidated accounts in this Annual Report.
The Companys Board career development advice and a dedicated page on the Company ofDirectors comprised seven members, six males and one female.
intranet which pulls together all the information our people need to plan their personal development.
We are progressively extending this Historically ours has been an industry which has struggled to recruita programme across our regional businesses in Asia and the US, tailoring high percentage of female graduates and we are encouraged that our it as appropriate to best meet local requirements.
In the US, we are graduate recruitment programme is helping toredress the balance at committed to implementing a Young Leaders Programme, adopting a Savills where we have a 50 50 male to female ratio of graduates at entry.
similar format to that of the UK.
Prior to any new appointment consideration is given to diversity in its Savills passionately believe that its graduates are the future leaders.
broadest sense, with a view to appointing the best placed candidate Ourgraduates are given responsibility from the day they join the for the role.
business, in teams who highly value their contribution, allowing themto be involved in some of the worlds most high-profile property deals and This year we launched a Diversity Group in the UK.
Graduates are surrounded by experienced professionals tohighlight the diversity of our business and ensure that we are and team members from whom they can seek advice and learn.
communicating clearly and effectively about our people and our clients.
Individual achievement is rewarded and Savills look for graduates Initiatives which the Diversity Group have launched this year include: withentrepreneurial flair.
In the UK Savills were proud to benamed TheTimes Graduate Employer of choice for Property for the9th year ina row and we continue to see a record number of applicants for this, Savills with Schools Careers in Property and our student summer scheme and work placement programmes.
Our current graduates attend Savills Graduate team collate Our summer scheme also ranked number 11 in the UK in the Rate alocal state secondary school aguide to the Real Estate MyPlacement awards up from 32nd place in2014.
to deliver presentations about industry, looking at careers in careers in property.
This the industry from governing We continue to work with some of our UK industry peers, the highlights the variety of roles bodies, educational institutions Changingthe Face of Property CTFOP group, on initiatives such in Real Estate as well as and employers to provide asanapprenticeship programme to offer jobs to school leavers opportunities for students to candidates with a andotherjunior candidates without a university education.
engage on an individual basis.
comprehensive guide tojoining the industry.
This is currently Valuing diversity shared with all UK university Savills is a global company and across all parts of our business we careers services in theUK.
look to create an inclusive culture in which difference is accepted and valued.
We believe that our inclusive approach gives us a competitive advantage and underpins the success of our business Apprenticeships Changing the Face of by giving us the ability to select our employees from the highest We launched a Surveying Property CTFOP quality individuals in the widest available pool of talent.
We continue to be a member of Fiveapprentices joined in 2015 the CTFOP group, a collaboration Our employees come from a wide range of backgrounds and have and will work in Surveying of employers, governing bodies adiverse range of skills and experience.
We have created a culture teams in technician roles whilst and education providers who inwhich those skills, experience and perspectives are nurtured they study one day a week via work together to raise awareness andencouraged.
After six of the industry, and drive equality.
years in the business they will During 2015 we attended Skills At Savills, we have long realised that our reputation as a quality gain their BSc in Real Estate London as well a number of global real estate provider of choice is built on our people and and their full MRICS status.
career fairs, and supported the thatthey are fundamental to the success of the business.
2016 will see us hire 15 more Trailblazer Apprenticeship apprentices for the programme.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 23 Resources and relationships continued Building a diverse and inclusive culture Client review meetings are a vital part of our approach to client care Our aim is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and we invest in an independent client review programme to focus on and the communities in which we live and work and we will continue how well we are doing in the way we plan and execute the services we to endeavour to improve the representation of women at Board and provide, how well we communicate and what additional value we give senior levels within the organisation and to sustain an inclusive our clients.
This provides an important independent rating of the culture in which all talent can thrive.
standard of our client service which is reviewed regularly and used to refine service delivery.
Savills top clients have a dedicated client relationship lead Client Advocate whose core responsibility is to act As an organisation committed to diversity in its workforce, we will as a focal point for client servicing enquiries, and in particular to allow continue to strengthen our policies, processes and practices to any service issues on current instructions to be quickly identified and develop our diversity and inclusion plans within the Groups markets addressed.
These client advocates also play a key role in reviewing our and geographies, in alignment with our corporate goals.
performance with the client in tandem with the client research programme to ensure that we understand where we have met or Ethical commitment exceeded expectations and those areas in which wecan do better.
Savills is committed to doing business legally and ethically wherever Ultimately this ensures that we have awareness ofour clients real it operates.
Savills Ethical Trading Policy is detailed in our Group estate plans so that we can make the appropriate resources available.
Code of Conduct which is readily accessible in local languages to allstaff to support their day to day decision making.
We continue Our client advocates are supported by a client management system tomaintain our focus on ensuring that our people worldwide work which consolidates client data into readily accessible client intelligence within our specified financial, operational and compliance framework reports.
To complement this initiative we recognise that there are and that these standards are consistently applied.
We demand the clients that benefit from a full Savills service offering and to meet highest professional standards from all of our people all of the time these demands, we have a full client management programme in place and have a zero tolerance to breaches.
However, given the breadth with a dedicated Client Relationship Management CRM team.
of activities and the number of people we employ there may be Each of these clients has a client care plan which includes a review occasions when we do not meet the high standards we aspire to.
of the current year, meeting schedule for key contacts, financials for Where we fail to reach these high standards, we treat any breach the year to date and future years, a client communication plan and with the utmost seriousness.
a list of agreed actions and responsibilities.
We have a CRM board in place whose responsibility it is to oversee the client management Human Rights programme.
This board meets bimonthly and reports into the UK Board.
At Savills we recognise our responsibility as a global corporate citizen and we consider the concerns of the wider communities Environment where we conduct our business.
A healthy safe and secure workplace Savills is committed at the highest level to providing a safe and We are committed to doing the right thing in the right way and this is healthy working environment for all staff and others who are affected reflected in the Savills Code of Conduct.
The Code, which underpins by our businesses so as to minimise the risk of injury and ill health.
our social, ethical and environmental commitments, clearly sets out the standards of behaviour that we expect our employees to Safe working practices form an integral part of our day to day demonstrate and adhere to in their day to day working life at Savills.
business and we aim to find practical solutions to health and safety risks.
To this end, our safety strategy is focused on priorities such as As an absolute minimum, our employee policies comply with local reducing occupational exposure to workplace hazards, maintaining legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We fully support the regulatory compliance and seeking to continuously develop and principles of UN Global Compact, the UN Declaration of Human Rights strengthen our health and safety arrangements.
and the International Labour Organizations ILO Core Conventions.
In 2015 we focused upon a number of training initiatives and Any breaches of our Code of Conduct may be reported in awareness programmes using a variety of communication channels accordance with the Companys whistle-blowing procedure.
in order to ensure Health & Safety H&S remained a key focus for all staff.
We also introduced a dedicated online H&S forum to further Clients enhance interaction amongst our global network of H&S Champions.
Client care We are committed to delivering a high quality service and creating During the current year we will continue to promote our positive long-term partnerships with all our clients.
To do this we place great safety culture with further localised training and country specific importance on delivering exceptional client service over the longer safety campaigns.
We also aim to enhance our current audit term through building sustained relationships and ensuring that the coverage in order to demonstrate our commitment to continuous Savills client experience is second to none.
improvement of safe working practices.
24 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Environmental impact Scope Across our global business, with more than 30,000 employees This Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement includes all emission operating in over 700 offices worldwide, Savills is committed to sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 for the financial year to reducing the impact our operations have on the natural environment.
31December 2015, compared against our baseline year of 2013.
Data By actively seeking to reduce our environmental impact, we are is also shown for 2014.
For 2015, we continued to expand the scope ableto achieve increased operational efficiencies and savings, of our data collection for our global greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
bothinternally and for our clients.
We are now reporting on GHG emissions from our UK, Europe, USA, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore operations.
As one of the worlds leading property advisers, Savills In subsequent years, we will seek to further expand this reporting acknowledges the importance of demonstrating leadership in this boundary.
A network of Environmental Reporting Nominees has also area.
This includes measuring, disclosing and being accountable been established, reporting to the Group Legal Director & Company forour environmental impacts.
Accordingly, Savills participates in Secretary, to co-ordinate more efficient data collection worldwide.
theinternational Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
Some 4,000 Specialist third-party verified environmental reporting software has organisations around the globe measure and disclose their alsobeen adopted by this network to ease data collection, ensure greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies as part conformity and complete the subsequent emission calculations.
This data is collected annually on behalf of institutional investors, purchasing organisations and various government Methodology bodies.
In 2015, Savills achieved a disclosure score of 84 out These calculations use a GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and ofapossible 100.
In a few cases complete or wholly reliable data was not available.
So, we have determined the relevant In acknowledgement of this environmental leadership, in the UK, emissions by using a range of standard carbon accounting measures, Savills UK won a Gold Award from the Mayor of London as part of including extrapolating data from other parts of the reporting period.
This was awarded in recognition of To allow easier year on year comparison, a per capita intensity ratio reducing average annual carbon intensity in our London offices by based on our number of full-time equivalent employee numbers has 41% compared to 2010 11. been chosen.
We consider that this is the best means of reflecting ourwide-ranging activities in a quantifiable common factor.
As part of this continuing drive to mitigate our environmental impacts, and as a hallmark of quality, our offices continue to As can be seen from the results in the table on page 26, our Total worktosecure ISO14001 2004: the international standard for Gross Emissions increased by approximately 18% from 2014 to 2015, environmental management systems.
85 offices in the UK alone but this overall increase reflects the aforementioned expansion of our asat 31December 2015 have achieved ISO14001 accreditation reporting boundary in 2015.
The corresponding figures for our perwith offices previously part of Smiths Gore to be accredited in 2016. capita intensity ratio, however, show an overall reduction of approximately 2.4%, despite our global FTE numbers increasing by Our Australian business had a year of achievements for sustainability around 21% during thereporting period.
Against our base year, of efforts, notably for the work produced for the Sydneys Better 2013, this is now an improvement of over 12.5%.
This significant Building Partnership on cooling tower water usage.
decrease has been driven by targeted operational upgrades e. g. of lighting, heating cooling and computer management.
At the corporate In Asia Pacific, Savills Guardian was again awarded the Class level, enhancements have also been achieved by the continued roll-out ofExcellence Wastewi$e label in Hong Kongs Awards for of environmental efficiency strategies, such as improved metering Environmental Excellence.
It has actively participated and been monitoring, higher occupancy density levels and the application of recognised since 2004.
We have also participated in a number of green building principles during theselection refurbishment of many of other initiatives including Earth Hour the Lights Off event to save our occupied spaces.
Savills is encouraged by the steady progress of energy, the Energy Saving Charter on Indoor Temperature which our mitigation approach to date.
We are confident of further reductions actively promotes energy savings in buildings, and the Quality in our environmental footprint in the coming years.
Greenhouse gas emissions Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement includes all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 for the financial year to31December 2015, compared against our baseline year to 31December 2013.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 25 Resources and relationships continued Greenhouse gas emissions data commitment and provides real-life development opportunities.
The UK Graduate Charity Committee have organised their most ambitious Total global emissions for carbon reporting 2015 challenge to date in aid of Dreams Come True, in which 28 Savills GHG Emissions Scopes 12 8,706 TCO e yr employees will be trekking 100km across the Arctic Circle in 2017.
2 8,706 Savills also supported the charity in a variety of ways including GHG emissions Scope 1 direct 1,898 TCO e yr organising various fundraisers including the Three Peaks Challenge 2 GHG emissions Scope 2 energy indirect 6,808 TCO e yr and participants in the London Marathon.
The UK business also 2 embarked upon an ambitious fundraising challenge for Countryside Total gross emissions Scopes 12 8,706 Learning, a charity that aims to educate, inform and inspire children, Total employees FTE av.
7,039 parents and teachers so that they can enjoy and appreciate the GHG intensity ratio 1.24 countryside whilst gaining a greater understanding of the range of issues surrounding it.
The team covered 5,000 miles by non-motorised Total global emissions for carbon reporting 2014 means, and highlights include three flights in a glider at an altitude 1 GHG emissions Scopes 1 2 7,374 TCO e yr of1,000 feet, a boat trip across the Thames and a tandem ride into 2 7,374 central London on the opening day of the Rugby World Cup.
We have GHG emissions Scope 1 direct 1,638 TCO e yr also created the 100 Club, set up to incentivise staff to participate in 2 GHG emissions Scope 2 energy indirect 5,735 100 CSR initiatives and raise funds via charitable fundraising.
2 Total gross emissions 7,374 In Asia, in recognition of Savills Guardians efforts in support of charitable Total employees FTE av.
5,800 causes, Savills Guardian was awarded a number of corporate volunteer 3 GHG intensity ratio 1.27 awards.
This includes an acknowledgement of Savills Guardians participation in the Caring Company Scheme with it now holding the Total global emissions for carbon reporting 2013 Caring Company 10 consecutive years logo.
Savills Guardian has 1 GHG emissions Scopes 1 2 6,424 TCO e yr alsobeen granted the use of the Social Caring Pledge logo.
The six 2 6,424 principles of the pledge are: 1 GHG emissions Scope 1 direct 1,292 TCO e yr 2 GHG emissions Scope 2 energy indirect 5,132 1.
Eliminate the discrimination of employment 2 Total gross emissions 6,424 3.
Ensure that there is no form of forced and compulsory labour Total employees FTE av.
Promote community involvement and development 3 GHG intensity ratio 1.425 5.
Avoid corruption including extortion and bribery 6.
Provide quality, healthy and safe products and or services to customers Notes: 1 Emissions factors based on Defra DECC Guidelines 2011 and other globally recognised methodologies.
During 2015 Savills Studley in the US actively participated and 2 Total global emissions for carbon reporting 2015: UK, Rest of Europe, contributed to not-for-profit organisations both nationally and Australia New Zealand and Hong Kong.
During 2015 our community involvement included 3 Total gross emissions, divided by total full time equivalent employees FTE yearaverage.
fundraising for the All Star Foundation, an organisation dedicated 4 Retrospective adjustments have been made to the reported 2013 data figures totransforming the lives of youth and poor communities using the to enable accurate year on year comparison.
developmental power or performance, in partnership with caring adults and Back on My Feet, a national non-profit organisation that Community supports those experiencing homelessness make improvements Social and community investment totheir lives that result in employment and independent living.
Supporting communities in which we operate remains an integral Onenational example is the Lee National Denim Day, the worlds part of our operations.
largest single-day fundraiser in support of breast cancer research with which Savills Studley have been involved since 2005.
Our offices and our people are actively involved in their communities through our support of charitable causes and other social and The UK operates a Give As You Earn scheme which allows staff business organisations, including making financial, in kind and todonate a portion of their monthly salary to a registered charity.
At a local level, we have developed a series of Wealso operate a profit share waiver scheme whereby staff can community engagement programmes which have a positive impact on elect towaive an element of any annual profit share in favour of the areas where our people live and work to ensure that Savills is firmly registered charities of their choice upon which the Group engaged with the communities we serve.
The stories below represent augmentsthe donation to the chosen charity by 10%.
only a few examples from across the globe of the wide variety of activities undertaken by Savills and its employees during 2015.
Future plans It has been another year of development and progress and this The UK business has continued to sponsor events in support of isreflected in this years CR report and throughout this document.
LandAid, the property industry charity that helps disadvantaged Going forward, we will seek to further develop and strengthen our children in the UK: such as debates and the 2015 TowerAthlon, in CR approach by continuing to focus on those activities where we which 250 property professionals, including 15 Savills representatives, arebest placed to make a significant contribution.
used their strength, speed and nerves to run up 39 storeys of stairs ofthe Broadgate Tower, abseil down its 539ft length and finish with a10-minute cycle-sprint at the bottom.
As well as delivering social benefits, we believe greater community engagement increases staff 26 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
