Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment particularly for Focusing on the European businesses, we evaluated and challenged European businesses the Directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, pages 88 and 96 were drawn up, and tested the underlying value in use calculations.
We Significant Accounting Policies and pages 108 to 110 notes.
compared managements forecast to the latest Board approved budget and found them to be consistent.
The Group carried 269.9m of goodwill at 31 December 2015 2014: 228.0m of which 41.9m related to new acquisitions and 228.0m to We challenged: existing businesses.
the key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts 18.5m of the goodwill balance related to the acquisition of Smiths Gore by comparing them to historical results, as well as economic and and 1.8m related to the acquisition of SEB.
The fair value exercises industry forecasts for the relevant international property markets: performed by management, which gave rise to the goodwill, are and provisional under accounting standards refer to the area of focus below the discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the on Accounting for the acquisitions of Smiths Gore and SEB, and both cost of capital for the Company and comparable organisations, businesses are currently trading in line with the investment decision and assessed the specific risk premium applied to the CGU forecasts.
The carrying values of goodwill are contingent on future cash flows of We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within the the underlying cash-generating units CGUs and there is a risk that if cash flow forecasts.
This included sensitising the discount rate applied these cash flows do not meet the Directors expectations, the assets will to the future cash flows, and the short and longer-term growth rates and be impaired.
profit margins in Europe due to continued uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment for a number of countries in the region.
We No impairment charge was recognised in the year ended 31 December ascertained the extent to which a reduction in these assumptions both 2015. individually or in aggregate would result in goodwill impairment, and We did not regard the acquisitions in the year as warranting particular considered the likelihood of such events occurring.
We did not regard focus in relation to impairment of goodwill and focused our assessment this to be reasonably possible.
on the other CGUs in Europe with material amounts of goodwill.
The Given the level of headroom, improved business performance in Savills Groups performance in Europe continued to improve during 2015, but Europe for 2015 and the continued uplift of property markets in Savills there is continued economic uncertainty and European property key European locations, we were satisfied that the carrying value of markets remain unsettled.
goodwill in Europe had been appropriately assessed.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to cut-off For material transactions, we evaluated the commercial rationale and the of transaction fees in the advisory and investment revenue recognition process adopted and determined that the related management businesses revenue had been booked on a consistent basis across the Group in Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report and Note 2 to the financial accordance with Group policies and applicable IFRSs.
statements for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting We tested a sample of revenue transactions to underlying contracts and policies, judgements and estimates.
third-party completion documentation, for example, property sales Our specific audit focus was on the risk that revenue may be recorded completion statements, or asset or property management contracts, in the incorrect period in respect of transaction fees in the agency and determining that these sales had taken place and were recorded in the investment management businesses, in light of the incentive schemes correct period.
We additionally tested a sample of revenue to supporting for management in those businesses designed to reward performance.
documentation, cash receipts and related contracts, in order to verify that the income was correctly calculated.
For more complex contracts, the recognition of revenue is largely dependent on the date the underlying transaction is deemed to be There were no material issues identified by our testing of revenue completed.
74 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
