Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness Time commitments and conflicts The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the Board composition and balance Non-Executive Directors committed sufficient time during the year toenable them to fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company.
Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors None of the Non-Executive Directors has any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with Non-Executive Chairman 1 theCompanys Articles of Association Articles.
Non-Executive Directors 5 Executive Directors 2 Board evaluation In accordance with the provisions of the Code it is our intention to Length of Tenure of Non-Executive Directors conduct an external independent evaluation of Board effectiveness and performance and that of its principal Committees at least 0-4 years 3 5-9 years 1 10 years 2 every three years.
At all times during the year at least half of the Board members, This year the annual Board evaluation was led by the Chairman excluding the Chairman, were Independent Non-Executive Directors.
andsupported by the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
Next yearthe Board will engage an independent external facilitator Chairman and Chief Executive to undertake the evaluation.
The 2015 internal evaluation covered The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct the performance of the Board as awhole as well as that of its and separate and their roles and responsibilities are clearly Committees andinvolved each Board member completing established.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the aquestionnaire and then using this as the background for effective engagement and contribution of all Executive and Nonaconfidential interview.
The evaluation covered six core themes: Executive Directors.
The Group Chief Executive has responsibility Board effectiveness, Board structure, working practices, succession for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority planning, relationships withshareholders and future priorities in delegated by the Board.
There are anumber of areas where the relation to Board performance.
The feedback obtained was collated Board has delegated specific responsibility to management, into areport which was presented to the Board.
including responsibility for the operational management of the Groups businesses as well as reviewing strategic issues and risk The evaluation showed that the Board and its Committees matters in advance of these being considered by the Board and or continuedto operate effectively without any significant areas its Committees.
The Board considers that throughout the year the ofconcern.
In an effort to continue to improve, however, Company was in full compliance with the Code.
recommendations arising from the evaluation included: the need tofurther enhance succession plans in place covering both the Independence of the Non-Executive Directors executive and Non-Executive Directors, the need to maintain the The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for bringing culture of the Board and maintain continuity through aperiod of independent and objective judgement and scrutiny to matters significant change in the membership of the Board, the need to have beforethe Board and its Committees.
The Board monitors the both updated and tested crisis management plans in place to allow independence of its Non-Executive Directors, particularly those who the Board to respond to serious unexpected events and the need to have given long service.
It is the view of the Board that each of the keep the Groups strategy and development plans under constant Non-Executive Directors brings considerable management expertise review to ensure that these remain appropriate in the light of the and is an Independent Non-Executive Director, being independent current market uncertainty.
ofmanagement and having no business or other relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
Overall, the Board considers the performance of each Director to Inparticular, notwithstanding his long service on the Board, the beeffective and concluded that both the Board and its Committees Board continues to consider that Charles McVeigh remains entirely continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required independent in character and judgement.
His experience provides levelsof governance and control.
The shareholders should therefore valuable insight, knowledge and continuity.
support their re-election or re-appointment as applicable to the Board at the AGM in May.
The Boardwill continue to review its Senior Independent Director procedures, effectiveness anddevelopment.
Martin Angle is the Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been addressed The skills and experience of the Directors are set out on page 44. by contact with the Chairman and or Group Chief Executive.
46 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Diversity Nomination Committee Report The Board is aware that the number of women on boards remains atopic for debate for companies and regulators.
We fully agree withthe spirit and aspirations of the Davies Report to increase the number of women on company boards.
However, all appointments tothe Board are made on merit and within this context, whilst having regard to the recommendations of the Davies Report, the Board continues to view diversity in the widest sense, with aview to appointing the best-placed individual for the role.
Appointing the bestpeople to the Board is critical to the success of the Company and our focus remains on attracting the right talent and skills Peter Smith irrespective of gender or diversity.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Board is committed to aculture that attracts and retains talented people to deliver outstanding performance and further enhance the success of the Group.
The Board recognises the benefits of having The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in diversity across all areas of the Group.
In asector which historically ensuring that the Board and its principal Committees have the right has struggled to retain ahigh percentage of female leaders, we mix of skills, experience and diversity to deliver Group strategy and are striving to redress the balance with our successful graduate to create value.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates recruitment programme which aims to have abalanced intake of the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the males and females and should help to ensure that there continues appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and independence to to be adiversity of talent within the Company from which we can beable to function effectively.
draw the future leaders of our Company.
The Companys policy on diversity applies across all levels of the Group and further details of In consultation with the Chairmen of the principal Committees, the the policy can be found in the Resources and Relationships section Nomination Committee will continue to monitor the needs of the on pages 22 to 26.
Board and its Committees in the context of Group strategy, with the aim of ensuring that the Groups succession planning policy The biographies of the Board members appear on page 44. evolves such that there is an identifiable supply of talent and experience available to the Board and its Committees fromwhich Board induction, training and support to select successors.
To ensure afull understanding of Savills and its businesses, followingtheir appointment to the Board, each Director undergoes Meetings acomprehensive and tailored induction programme which Attendance table introduces the Director to the Groups businesses, its operations, strategic plans and key risks.
New Directors are also provided with Meetings Meetings eligible to information on relevant share dealing policies, Directors duties, Committee member attended attend Company policies and governance.
The induction also includes one Peter Smith 4 4 to one briefings from the Heads ofthe Principal Businesses and an introduction to each Group businesss development strategy.
Martin Angle 4 4 Tim Freshwater 4 4 The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary is responsible Liz Hewitt 4 4 forensuring that the Directors receive regular updates on Rupert Robson 2 2 developments in legal and regulatory matters.
Jeremy Helsby 4 4 Directors conflicts of interest The Directors are subject to astatutory duty under the Companies Rupert Robson was appointed to the Board on 23 June 2015.
Act 2006 to avoid situations in which they have, or could have, an interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests As at 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this Report, the Nomination Committee was primarily composed of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members is shown on the relevant matter has been authorised by the other Directors page44.
in accordance with the Articles.
The Board has adopted aset of guiding principles on managing conflicts and approved aprocess foridentifying current and future actual and potential conflicts of interest.
It was also agreed that the Nomination Committee would review authorised conflicts at least annually or if and when anew potential conflict situation was identified or apotential conflict situation materialised.
During 2015, actual and potential conflicts ofinterest that were identified by each Director were subsequently authorised by the Nomination Committee, subject to appropriate conditions in accordance with the guiding principles.
Procedures adopted to deal with conflicts of interest continue to operate effectively and the Boards authorisation powers continue to be exercised properlyin accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 47
