Corporate Governance Statement continued the Chairman.
Wealso had one other Non-Executive Director who the meantime, my fellow Directors and I look forward to continued is based in HongKong.
Our focus remains on attracting the right dialogue and meeting with shareholders at our AGM in May.
talent and skills irrespective of gender or ethnicity.
As and when Board appointments arise, we will look to follow the procedures It has been another year of significant progress and I remain happy recommended by the Davies Report and by the Code to maintain with the Boards activity across our governance agenda.
Our policy on page 47 summarises our approach we will continue to challenge ourselves and the business and to to diversity and what this means for our business and our people.
consider and to learn from our decisions to ensure that we build upon the existing strength of our governance structure.
Monitoring risk Risk management is and will remain afundamental element of the Peter Smith Board and Audit Committees agendas and our governance efforts Chairman of Savills plc across the Group as awhole.
The changes introduced in 2014 by the Code and the FRC guidance on risk management and internal 9 March 2016 controls are welcomed.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Groups risk management framework and risk appetite.
This process included arobust assessment of the Groups principal risks.
UK Corporate Governance Code To meet the Codes new requirement in relation to viability, the Audit The latest revision of the Code was published by the FRC in Committee reviewed the process undertaken by management to September 2014, together withGuidance on Risk Management, support and allow the Directors to make the Groups viability statement.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The The Audit Committee also considered and provided input into the Code applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October determination of which of the Groups principal risks might have an 2014.
Throughout the financial year to 31 December 2015 the Code impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency and reviewed the results is the standard against which we measured ourselves and the of managements scenario modelling, including severe downside Board fully supports the principles set out in the Code.
We confirm modelling, and stress testing of those models.
The Groups viability that we have applied the Main Principles of the Code and complied statement can be found on page 31.
The other updates to the Code with the Main Principles set out in sections A to E of the Code, as were also considered by the Board and its respective Committees and amended in September 2014.
Specifically, the 2014 amendments the Board was satisfied that the Companys established policies and include the requirement for additional statements by the Directors procedures were wholly consistent with the Codes requirements.
in respect ofthe longer term viability of the Company and that arobust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company has The Audit Committees Report on pages 49 to 54 sets out in more been undertaken.
These new requirements are addressed in the detail the systems of risk management and internal control which new viability statement on page 31 and the disclosures of Principal help us to safeguard the Companys assets and our shareholders Risks and Uncertainties on pages 27 to 31. investments.
Details of our principal risks can be found on pages 27 to 31.
For ease of reference, we prepare aseparate annual compliance report by reference to the Main Principles of the Code.
This report Shareholder engagement is available on the Groups website www.
com en companyAs aresponsible organisation, we believe that engaging with information corporate-governance.
aspx shareholders and encouraging open, meaningful dialogue with the Company is vital to ensuring mutual understanding.
You can Our approach to Leadership, Effectiveness and Accountability read more about shareholder engagement in this section and in isset out in more detail on pages 40 to 54.
Leadership Governance structure The Groups current corporate governance is set out below.
Board Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Chief Committee Committee Committee Executive Group Executive Board Group Risk CR Steering Executive Committee Group Committees with effect from 26 January 2016 40 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements The Board Matters reserved to the Board Role of the Board The Board has adopted aformal schedule of matters specifically The primary responsibility of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial reserved to it for decision making.
A full schedule of matters reserved leadership and to oversee the overall strategic development of the for the Boards decision along with the Terms of Reference of the Group.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards Boards principal Committees can be found on the Companys and ensures that the Groups businesses act ethically and that its website at www.
com en company-information corporateobligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
delegates the management of the day to day operation of the business to the Group Chief Executive, supported by the Group Executive Board referred to on page 42, subject to appropriate risk parameters.
The principal matters reserved for the Board are set out below: Strategy and objectives Risk management Reviewing and approving the Groups strategy, objectives, business Establishing, monitoring and regulating the levels of risk which plans and budgets with aview to maintaining the Groups established theGroupis willing to accept in return for economic success and entrepreneurial driven business culture.
Following implementation, implementing systems of internal control, governance and approval theBoard continuously monitors and analyses actual performance authorities to safeguard shareholder investments.
against desired outcomes and, where necessary, agrees adjustments Regularly analysing the impact of the Groups adopted risk appetite orchanges to the strategic plan to ensure the Group achieves its against expected outcomes to ensure that the level of risk adopted by short, medium and long-term objectives.
the Board is appropriate such that it can be effectively managed by the Groups businesses and neither constrains growth nor has anegative Considering, testing and approving significant capital investment impact on the Groups reputation or finances.
In response to actual projects in line with strategy and taking ameasured approach with the outcomes and or changes in the internal and external environments, aim of: maintaining our position as amarket leader: strengthening our regulating acceptable risk levels to reflect the evolution of strategy.
presence in an existing market: or establishing the Savills brand in new markets through acquisitions or partnerships with well established high calibre local businesses with the skills to complement our existing capabilities and the ability to sit comfortably within the Savills business model.
Where necessary, reviewing and approving divesting initiatives.
Governance Finance performance Overseeing the performance of the Board and its principal Committees Reviewing the performance of the Groups businesses profits and and that of individual Directors to ensure that they continue to be effective cashmanagement initiatives, assessed against the Groups strategy, in support of Group strategy, policy and practice.
objectives, business plans and budgets to ensure that the financial resources generated by the businesses work to create additional value, Planning to refresh or replace retiring or outgoing Directors so as costs are controlled and or eliminated and that resource can be made toensure that the different skills, experience and knowledge of the available at the appropriate time to exploit business opportunities.
Directors is such that the Group remains capable of adapting to the changing environment as aconsequence of it being directed by aset Reviewing changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of any ofcompetent, well rounded individuals who have the ability to formulate securities in the context of achieving efficiencies or reducing the cost of sensible and practical ideas capable of being translated into strategies capital to the Group.
Approving annual and half year results and trading updates, and In line with the Boards commitment to operate the Groups businesses accounting policies so as to ensure that communication with the on an ethically, morally and legally sound basis from the top down, Groups shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable: and, overseeing the development and approval of the Groups governance subjectto shareholder approval, the appointment and the structure and policies such as the Groups Code of Conduct, standards remunerationof the External Auditors.
of ethics and policy in relation to business practice, health, safety, environment, social and community responsibilities to ensure that the Approving the dividend policy and interim and supplemental dividends Group continues to do the right thing and remains compliant with and recommending final dividends which are appropriate to the Groups regulatory and legal requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which strategy, reflect the performance of the Group and give the Group the itoperates.
ability to continue to attract inward investment.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 41 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board Committees Group Executive Board GEB The Board has established three principal Committees to which it As mentioned above, the Group Chief Executive is supported by has delegated certain of its responsibilities, which are set out below.
The GEB is the key management committee of the Group.
The roles, membership and activities of these Committees can be It is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and comprises the Group found in the pages which follow.
Chief Financial Officer, the Heads of the Principal Businesses and theGroup Legal Director & Company Secretary.
The GEB meets regularly and under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, Nomination Committee theGEB is responsible for the day to day management of the Chaired by Peter Smith save when Chairman succession was Groupincluding overseeing the development and implementation considered, when the Committee was chaired by Martin Angle, ofstrategy, capital expenditure, and investment budgets, for the theSenior Independent Director ongoing review and control of Group risks as detailed on pages 27to 31 and reporting on these areas to the Board for approval, Number of meetings in the year: 4 implementing Group policy, monitoring financial and operational performance of the Group and other specific matters delegated Role of the Committee toitby the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for the size, structure andcomposition of the Board, for reviewing and progressing An explanation of how the Group creates and preserves value, appointments and for succession planning to ensure that the andthe strategy for delivering its objectives is included in the Boardisrefreshed progressively such that the balance of skills and GroupChief Executives review on pages 12 to 14. experience available to the Board remains appropriate to the needs ofthe business.
The Committee also makes recommendations Membership of the GEB is detailed on page 45. to theBoard on the membership of the principal Committees of the Board.
The Nomination Committee Report can be found on Board meetings pages 47 and 48.
Attendance table Meetings Meetings eligible to Audit Committee attended attend Chaired by Liz Hewitt from 13 May previously chaired by Martin Non-Executive Directors Angleuntil 13 May.
Peter Smith 8 8 Number of meetings in the year: 4 Martin Angle 8 8 Tim Freshwater 8 8 Role of the Committee Liz Hewitt 8 8 The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board Rupert Robson 4 4 in fulfilling its financial and risk responsibilities, in particular for ensuring that thefinancial statements are fair, balanced and Charles McVeigh 8 8 understandable.
It oversees financial reporting, internal control, Executive Directors risk management and reviews the work of the Internal and Jeremy Helsby 8 8 External Auditors and advises the Board on the appointment of the External Auditors.
The Audit Committee Report can be found Simon Shaw 8 8 on pages 49 to 54.
Was appointed to the Board on 23 June 2015.
Members of the Group Executive Board.
Remuneration Committee Chaired by Rupert Robson from 1 October 2015 and by The Board met formally eight times during the year and there was full TimFreshwater up to 30 September 2015 attendance at all meetings by Directors, as shown in the table above.
Number of meetings in the year: 3 Role of the Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive Directors and for reviewing that of the members of the Group Executive Board.
The Directors Remuneration Report can be found on pages 55 to 69.
42 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Board activity Board meetings One of the Boards meetings during the year was specifically devoted As detailed above, although the Board has aschedule of matters to the review and reconfirmation of the Groups strategy.
This meeting, reserved to it for formal decision, there has to be alevel of flexibility benefited from presentations and discussions with anumber of the tomeet the evolving needs of the business and we endeavour to Heads of the Principal Businesses.
The delivery of strategic plans will develop our processes in order to support growth and to achieve continue to be monitored and reviewed by the Board and periodic continuous improvement across the Group.
updates on progress and market developments will be presented by the Heads of the Principal Businesses.
A further Board meeting was Below is achart which shows in simple terms those areas on which held at the offices of the Groups French business, which provided your Board has been focused during 2015 and which will remain key Board members with the opportunity to meet with senior individuals in the coming year.
from the French business and more widely from across the Groups European business.
Strategy Leadership and risk Strategy setting Entrepreneurial support The Board and Committee meetings are structured to allow open Target delivery Succession planning discussion.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors Achievement of goals Oversight of operational receive appropriate and timely information, including detailed papers management in advance of Board meetings.
When unable to be present in person, Determination of principal Directors may attend by audio or video conference.
When Directors risks and risk appetite are unable to attend aBoard or Committee meeting, their views on the key items of business to be considered at that meeting are relayed in advance to the Chairman of that meeting in order that these can be Governance Finance presented at the meeting and influence the debate.
Assurance and Optimising our internal compliance control framework The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least once each year Board management Capital allocation, without the presence of the Executive Directors and also meet at and effectiveness financing and funding least once ayear without the Chairman, at which time the Chairmans Remuneration policy in Overview and preparation performance is appraised.
support of strategy offinancial statements Access to advice The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, whose appointment In 2015, the Boards focus has been on the specific growth initiatives isa matter reserved for the Board, is responsible for advising and across the Group.
In particular, the Board focused on the acquisition supporting the Chairman and the Board on company law and corporate of thebusiness of Smiths Gore in the UK in May: the acquisition in governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are August of SEB Asset Management AG and through it SEB Investment followed, as well as ensuring that there is asmooth flow of information Management GmbH, as part of the strategic objective of expanding toenable effective decision making.
the business of Savills Investment Management formerly Cordea Savills, the Groups investment management platform: and the All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the acquisition of an initial 45% interest in aMalaysian full service agency GroupLegal Director & Company Secretary and through him have business, now known as Savills Malaysia.
access, if required, to independent professional advice in respect oftheir duties at the Companys expense.
Information flow At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged the duties Indemnification of Directors aboveand received updates on the Groups financial performance, In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and key management changes, material new projects, financial plans, to theextent permitted by law, the Directors and the Group Legal andlegal and regulatory updates.
Director & Company Secretary are granted an indemnity, in respect of any liabilities incurred as aresult of their holding office.
Such The Chairman, together with the Group Legal Director & Company indemnities were in force during the financial year to 31 December Secretary, ensures that the Directors receive management 2015 and up to the date of this Report.
The Company also maintains information, including financial, operating and strategic reports, appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its inadvance of Board meetings.
The Board receives presentations from the Heads of the Principal Businesses and Functions on matters of significance and periodically meetings are held in regional centres to give the Board greater insight into the business in that region.
The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary provides the Board with updates and reports covering legal developments and regulatory changes.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 43
