GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT reviewing the effectiveness of the internal COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE audit function: considering the major Member Appointment date findings of internal audit activities and Giles Kerr managements response: ensuring Committee Chair 2 September 2013 co-ordination between the internal audit Celia Baxter 2 September 2013 function and the external auditor and Andy Hamment 8 April 2011 ensuring that the former is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing Susan Brennan was appointed to the Committee within the Group: on 1 January 2016. reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups There was full attendance at each of the three internal controls and risk management meetings of the Audit Committee held in 2015. systems ensuring that the process is active and dynamic: Two members constitute a quorum for the Audit Committee.
The Group Company Secretary understanding the strategy at both Group acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
and operational levels to ensure that business risks and other relevant issues are Collectively the members of the Audit effectively identified and communicated to Committee have significant commercial and DEAR SHAREHOLDER the Board: financial experience at a senior management The Audit Committee has been established by level.
Giles Kerr has the recent and relevant ensuring the Companys corporate ethics, the Board and consists entirely of independent financial experience required by the UK Corporate anti-bribery and compliance procedures are non-executive Directors.
The primary role of Governance Code to chair the Audit Committee.
up to date in terms of addressing the the Audit Committee is to maintain the integrity For details of the qualifications of members of potential risks of fraud and misconduct: of the financial reporting of the Group and to the Audit Committee, please refer to the Board ensure appropriate risk management and assessing the Audit Committees capabilities Directors biographies shown on page 39. internal control procedures.
To enable the in relation to diversity, risk experience and AuditCommittee to fulfil this role, its main the financial expertise of its members: AUDIT COMMITTEES TERMS OF responsibilities include: understanding the implications of forthcoming REFERENCE considering and making recommendations changes to accounting standards, including The Board expects the Audit Committee the new revenue recognition standard to be to the Board, and ultimately shareholders to have an understanding of: forapproval, of the appointment of the implemented from 2018: the principles, contents, and external auditor, the audit fee, initiating assessing potential IT, cyber security and developments in financial reporting, tender processes in accordance with social media issues in order to manage the including the applicable accounting regulatory requirements, and any questions Companys reputational and business standards and statements of relating to the resignation or dismissal of continuity risks: recommended practice: theexternal auditor: reviewing the Groups Whistle-blowing the key aspects of the Groups assessing annually the independence and Policy, to ensure that appropriate procedures operations, including corporate policies, objectivity of the external auditor, its are in place for employees to raise, in its products and services, Group financing, compliance with regulatory requirements confidence, any concerns that they may and systems of internal control: and authorising the provision, if any, of have relating to suspected malpractice, non-audit services: the matters that could influence or illegal acts, omissions or other unethical distort the presentation of accounts and monitoring the integrity of the half-year corporate conduct, regarding financial or key figures: other matters: and ensuring that andannual Accounts and related formal Company announcements, and reviewing arrangements are in place for investigation the principles of, and developments in, of such matters and follow-up action: and significant financial reporting judgements company law, sector-specific laws and contained within them, before their other relevant corporate legislation: considering any other topics specifically submission to the Board: delegated to the Committee by the Board the roles of internal and external discussing with the external auditor issues from time to time.
auditing and risk management: and and reservations, if any, arising from the The Audit Committee is required to report its the regulatory framework for the interim review and final audit and any other findings to the Board, identifying any matters Groups businesses.
matters the external auditor may raise: which it considers that action or improvement The full Terms of Reference of the Audit is needed, and to make recommendations as reviewing and approving the terms of the Committee may be found on the management representation letter to the steps taken.
addressed to the external auditor: 48 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met on 19 February 2015 to consider the 2014 year-end report and during the subsequent 12 months conducted the following business on the meeting dates indicated below: Meeting date 20 July 2015 22 October 2015 22 February 2016 Standing Considered the external auditors Discussed and approved the external Reviewed and accepted the Report to items Interim Review for the half-year ended auditors audit planning report, including the Audit Committee on the 2015 audit 30 June 2015. the scope of work, audit approach and made by the external auditor.
Reviewed and approved the terms of Reviewed key accounting judgements, including consideration of those the management representation letter Considered potential areas requiring key addressed to the external auditor.
significant issues outlined on page 50.
Considered the appropriate level of Considered the materiality of any materiality and noted the implication of unadjusted audit findings.
Discussed the Groups Announcement applying different levels of materiality: of the 2015 Interim Results together Reviewed and discussed the Groups the Audit Committee agreed to Preliminary Announcement and the with the slides for the analysts reduce the level to 7.3% of profit presentation.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015. before tax excluding goodwill Reviewed and agreed the basis for impairment and impairment of assets Reviewed and agreed the viability going concern to be adopted for the held for sale.
Received an update from the external Reviewed and agreed the going concern basis to be adopted for the Received and considered an internal auditor on accounting, reporting and audit activity report, which provided governance developments.
anupdate on ongoing matters Received and considered a report from Approved the Audit Committee Report underreview by Internal Audit and PwC on the provision of Internal Audit for 2015. theAudit Committee.
within the Group and agreed a number Reviewed the effectiveness of the Reviewed the Groups Treasury of follow up audits to be undertaken.
Groups risk management and internal policiesand approved an updated Undertook a performance evaluation control systems and disclosures made policydocument.
in the Annual Report & Accounts 2015.
Discussed the Groups Tax policy Carried out an appraisal exercise on Reviewed the Notice of Meeting for assetout on page 23. theeffectiveness of the external theAGM 2016 and the Proxy Form for Appointed PwC to perform an auditprocess.
the AGM 2016. externalreview of the Groups Reviewed and updated the Audit Received and considered a report InternalAudit function.
presented by the Group Finance Director, which included the proposed Reviewed the Group Whistle-blowing 2016 internal audit plan, and approved Policy and agreed no changes were the Group Internal Audit Charter.
Held separate private meetings with Discussed the new viability statement 1 theexternal auditor and Internal Audit, and agreed the process to comply with without executive management the new requirements.
Considered the retendering of external audit services, which is discussed in detail on page 51.
The Audit Committee normally invites the The Audit Committee also holds separate Periodically, the Audit Committees Terms of 1 Non-executive Chairman, Group Chief discussions with the internal audit function Reference are reviewed to take into account Executive, Group Finance Director, Group andthe external auditor without executive current views on good practice and any recent Financial Controller and senior representatives management being present.
In addition, the amendments to the UK Corporate Governance 1 of the internal audit function and the external Chairman of the Audit Committee holds separate Code.
In October 2015, the Audit Committee audit firm to attend its meetings, although it meetings with the internal and external auditors adopted its Terms of Reference, following their reserves the right to request any of these during the course of the year to discuss both approval by the Board of Directors.
individuals to withdraw from any meeting.
1 As set out on page 52, the Group engaged the services of PwC to perform certain Internal Audit procedures during 2015.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT RISKS CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Significant risks considered by the Committee How the risk was addressed by the Committee Goodwill impairment The Audit Committee recognises the carrying value of goodwill as a key area of judgement and The carrying value of goodwill relies assuch closely reviews executive managements assumptions at both year-end and the half-year.
onassumptions and judgements made An impairment loss of 18.8m has been recognised in relation to the full carrying value of goodwill by executive management.
allocated to the GA CGU, the Groups high precision machined component operation based in Wisconsin, USA.
As noted in the Annual Report & Accounts 2014, visibility of off-highway land Management performed an vehicles for use in agricultural markets and mining operations was less clear as the slowing GDP annual impairment assessment growth rate in China impacted commodity prices.
During 2015 this has led to lower activity levels at 31 December 2015 for all than had previously been anticipated at GA which intensified in the second half of the year and Cash Generating Units CGUs significantly reduced visibility of a possible reversal to the current cyclical down trend.
Hence, the to which goodwill is allocated.
value in use assessment indicated that, as at 31 December 2015, the GA CGU no longer had sufficient headroom over its carrying value of goodwill.
In the case of the Thermal CGU, its recoverable amount exceeded its carrying value by 9.5m.
However, whilst the business has been trading in line with the expectation set out in the Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014, the Directors acknowledge that a reasonable possible change in the current assumptions of a further 24% reduction in the risk adjusted cash flow projections would result in the recoverable amount of this CGU reducing to a level comparable with its carrying value.
Factors that could lead to lower cash flows than currently estimated over the initial five-year period include: not meeting customers expectations for quality and on-time delivery performance which would result in additional rework and inspection costs to be incurred: not securing sufficient new business with existing customers: and not introducing sufficient new growth customers.
In the case of the LPE and Senior Flexonics Upeca CGUs, their respective recoverable amounts exceed their carrying values by 15.9m and 16.0m.
However, during the year and in particular in the second half of 2015, lower activity levels than previously anticipated have been experienced in the Industrial Process Control market due to the down-trend in oil and commodity prices.
While this has adversely affected trading levels for LPE and Senior Flexonics Upeca in 2015, their mid-term expectations over the initial five-year period indicate a reversal to the current cyclical slow-down for their markets and prospects.
The Directors acknowledge that a reasonable possible change in the current assumptions of a further 27% and 32% reduction in their respective risk adjusted cash flow projections would result in the recoverable amounts of these CGUs to reduce to a level comparable with their carrying values.
Following the annual impairment assessment of all other CGUs, the Audit Committee was satisfied that no additional charge for impairment of goodwill was required.
Acquisition accounting The Group recognised goodwill of 17.1m and intangible assets of 27.9m on the acquisition of LPE.
The Group acquired 100% of the issued The Group recognised goodwill of 21.2m and intangible assets of 28.4m on the acquisition of share capital of Lymington Engineering Steico.
The Audit Committee held discussions with executive management regarding the procedures LPE Limited on 31 March 2015 for a total performed to fair value the assets and liabilities acquired.
The Committee noted the use of external consideration of 44.6m and Steico valuation experts in order to form the necessary judgements.
Industries, Inc. and its trading facility The external auditor provided the Audit Committee with details of the audit work performed to on 17 December 2015 for a total assess that the assets and liabilities are held at fair value.
There is The Audit Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used were appropriate and that the assets judgement in determining the valuation and liabilities are valued at fair value.
of the intangible assets and associated goodwill with theacquisitions.
Provisions The Audit Committee considered the basis upon which management had made its accounting Provisions or accruals are held where judgements to determine the level of provisions.
These were further discussed with the management considers there is an externalauditor.
obligation, payment is probable and the The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising from these significant amount payable can be reliably estimated.
Provisions held by the Group include butare not limited to: those held against inventory: and central UK and US tax provisions.
50 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Audit Committee considers that it was The Audit Committee will be responsible for EXTERNAL AUDIT beneficial for the Company to retain Deloitte the tender process which will begin in March Independence of the external auditor and forthis non-audit work because of the firms 2016, with a selected number of audit firms policy on non-audit services expertise in this area and knowledge of the receiving a formal invitation to tender.
These To fulfil its responsibility regarding the Group.
The Audit Committee continues to audit firms will be selected on the basis of their independence of the external auditor, the Audit closely monitor the nature and level of such appropriate experience, expertise and resources Committee reviewed: non-audit work, in order to balance objectivity to perform the audit toa high standard.
a report from the external auditor describing and value for money.
The tender process will involve access to a the arrangements that had been made to Policy on tendering data room, detailed meetings with identify, report and manage any conflicts of The Committee notes that the transitional management and selected site visits.
The Audit interest and to maintain its independence: guidance on audit tendering issued by the FRC Committee will then conduct final interviews the overall extent of non-audit services indicated that the Company should tender the and selection with the shortlisted firms and provided by the external auditor: and audit, at the latest, at the time of the next audit select the firm to be recommended to partner rotation currently scheduled for 2019. shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit public report The Committee also notes the final Order from on Deloitte.
Assessment of external audit the Competition & Markets Authority which effectiveness The Audit Committees policy in respect of applied for financial periods beginning on or As in prior years, the Audit Committee services provided by the external auditor is after 1 January 2015 and the new EU reviewed the effectiveness of the external asfollows: Regulation under which it is likely that audit auditor process, by assessing a range of key firms in the UK will need to rotate every the external auditor is invited to provide areas.
In 2015, the Secretary presented the 20years with a tender after 10 years.
The services which, in its position as auditor, it Audit Committee with a framework of transition rules set out in the Order and the EU must or is best placed to undertake.
This questions to facilitate a debate and to assist Regulation mean Senior is required to rotate includes formalities relating to borrowings, theAudit Committee in assessing the level of auditors by 2023.
During 2015 further EU shareholder and other circulars, various other auditor effectiveness.
The framework required guidance became available detailing the regulatory reports and certain work in Audit Committee members to consider which prohibited non-audit services such as tax respect of larger acquisitions and disposals: areas of performance needed future focus by services, which Deloitte will be unable to the auditor, the areas where the auditor was the auditor may provide tax compliance and perform after 31 December 2016.
Inlight of meeting expectations and those where the advice where it is best suited.
In all material this new guidance and the current market auditor was considered to have a special strength.
cases such work is put out to tender: and practice to tender audit services before the FRC deadline, the Board has decided to putthe The Audit Committee discussed: the audit other services may not be provided audit out to tender in the second quarter of partner and the team as a whole: the audit whereprecluded by ethical standards or 2016. planning approach and its execution: the role where the Audit Committee believes that ofexecutive management in the audit process: itwould compromise audit independence Deloitte will continue to be the Groups auditor, communications by the auditor to the Audit and objectivity.
subject to shareholder approval, for the year Committee and how it supported the work of ending 31 December 2016, but due to the All proposed contracts for services to be the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee longevity of Deloittes appointment they will provided by the auditor in excess of 25,000 also discussed what insights the auditor had not be invited to tender and therefore new require the Audit Committees approval.
provided and where it had added value to the auditors will be identified for the year ending overall audit process.
The Committee In 2015, the level of non-audit work undertaken 31December 2017.
A hand over process will concluded that the auditor had challenged by Deloitte slightly decreased, as the Group take place around the 2016 year-end.
thethinking of the Company and the Audit reviewed fewer of its tax arrangements and Committee on a number of significant issues undertook fewer projects which required and maintained its independence.
advice and assistance from professional advisers.
Fees for each category of non-audit Feedback about the effectiveness of the audit work undertaken in the year are shown in the process from the local management teams table below: was also considered by the Audit Committee.
Fees Following completion of the assessment m process, the Audit Committee concluded that it Other tax advisory services 0.2 is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external Total non-audit fees 0.2 auditor: as a consequence the Audit Committee Non-audit fees as a % of total has recommended to the Board that Deloitte audit fees 25% LLP be re-appointed as auditor for 2016.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Following the review, the Audit Committee INTERNAL AUDIT CONCLUSION andGroup Finance Director decided to pursue As a result of its work during the year, the Audit The Audit Committee is required to assist the a co-source model of Internal Audit and Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to Committee has concluded that it has acted in engaged PwC to undertake a number of accordance with its Terms of Reference.
At its the effectiveness, resourcing and plans of the specific targeted financial control reviews Group internal audit function.
meeting held on 22 February 2016, the Audit during the second half of 2015.
Committee considered each section of and the 2015 was a transitional year for the Groups Annual Report & Accounts 2015 as a whole, The Audit Committee and Group Finance Internal Audit function.
In January 2015, the asproposed by the Company: it reached a Director also considered the increased Groups Head of Internal Audit gave notice of conclusion and advised the Board that it requirements for listed companies around risk his decision to leave the Group, to pursue a considered the Annual Report and Accounts management and continuous assessment of new opportunity, and then left the Group at the 2015 to be fair, balanced and understandable risk.
In light of a future co-source model and end of March.
Rather than immediately and that it provided the information necessary increased regulatory requirements it was replacing this role, the Audit Committee, along for shareholders to assess the Companys decided to create a new role for the Group of with the Group FinanceDirector decided to take business model and strategy.
The Chairman Head of Risk and Assurance.
This person would the opportunity to undertake a benchmarking ofthe Audit Committee will be available at the report to the Group Finance Director with a review of Internal Audit within Senior and AGM 2016 to answer any questions about dotted line to the Chair of the Audit Committee engaged PwC to perform this review.
The scope thework of the Committee.
and be responsible for overseeing the risk of the review covered the following areas: management activities of the Group and Internal APPROVAL Organisational strategy Audit.
This role has now been filled.
This Report was reviewed and approved by the Human resources Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: As set out on pages 26 to 31, the Group has also significantly improved its risk management Working practices procedures during the year and these have Communication and reporting Giles Kerr been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Knowledge management The Non-executive Directors are actively 26 February 2016 encouraged to visit the Groups operating Performance management businesses unaccompanied by Executive Use of technology Directors.
This enables them to meet the localmanagement teams and employees and The review concluded that the Groups also undertake site tours to review matters approach to Internal Audit was fit for purpose including production methods, health and and in line with that to be expected of similar safety and the status of internal audit findings.
sized companies within the FTSE 250, but In 2015, a total of 18 site visits were undertaken thatit would benefit from a targeted back by the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
tobasics refresh, with particular focus on These visits by the Non-executive Directors financial controls.
areviewed by the Audit Committee as makinga positive contribution to the internal control framework.
52 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
