Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 85 Corporate Governance Report I strongly believe that high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics are key to underpinning the success of all businesses and they protect the best interests of our customers, employees, shareholders and the societies and communities in which we work.
Sir Roy Gardner Chairmans governance overview Chairman Dear Shareholder what good actions have been taken and what progress is being made.
Alastair This is my first Corporate Governance Lyons reported last year that 2014 saw Report to you since I joined as Chairman.
the implementation of a comprehensive I strongly believe that high standards programme of corporate renewal to deliver of corporate governance, integrity and stronger, more effective governance, business ethics are key to underpinning organisational change and operational the success of all businesses and resilience across the Group.
Recognising they protect the best interests of our the importance of the successful customers, employees, shareholders, and implementation of the Corporate Renewal the societies and communities in which we Programme, in 2015 the Group continued work.
Other than my own appointment as to drive the embedding across the Group Chairman, there were no other changes to of the actions, systems and processes the Board in 2015.
The strength and depth which form the Programme.
Whilst I of experience of the current Board and recognise that it will take time to fully their commitment to the highest standards embed all of the changes, significant of governance mean that we believe we inroads have been, and continue to are well placed to further improve Serco's be, made.
In order to ensure that there performance in the coming years.
remains strong oversight and focus on Since joining the business, I have visited embedding these actions, the Board a number of operations in the UK and Oversight Committee will continue to overseas and I have met a large number closely monitor this.
In my report as of people that want to do the right thing Chairman of that Committee on pages in the right way.
That demonstrates to me 118 and 119, I go into more detail on the that at its core, Serco wants to operate as activities of embedding corporate renewal, a well governed organisation.
I also see which I encourage you to read.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 86 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Chairmans governance overview continued The Board has reviewed the terms An independent external evaluation of of reference of the different Board the Board, its Committees and individual committees in order to ensure that Directors was carried out in early 2015 in the division of responsibilities and the respect of the year ended 31 December terms of reference for each committee 2014.
The results were discussed by the are properly aligned.
As a result of that Board and the outcomes were made review, the Corporate Responsibility available to me on appointment.
This and Risk Committee CRRC will be provided useful information following the renamed the Risk Committee following significant changes to the Board during the AGM in May.
With my becoming Chairman in the Risk Committee will be amended July, half way through the year, I felt that to ensure that all aspects of risk can be there would be limited value in carrying given full and proper consideration.
The Heads of Risk and Internal Audit However, I recognise the importance of will also be invited to attend all Risk continual and constructive evaluation Committee meetings to ensure that of the Board's performance, and an there is full awareness of discussions internally facilitated evaluation of Board across both functions.
During the year effectiveness will be conducted in the under review, the Group has put a lot of summer of 2016. emphasis on risk management and it felt This report sets out the Companys appropriate that the Risk Committee be governance policies and practices and given additional time to ensure that risk includes details of how the Company management receives an appropriate applies the principles of the UK level of attention at Board level.
The Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Board recognises the importance of In the following pages, we illustrate corporate responsibility matters and how our governance arrangements the relevant areas of responsibility have work in practice, focusing on the key been picked up by either the Board, for elements of the Boards role: leadership, example in relation to Health and Safety, effectiveness, accountability and or the Board Oversight Committee in engaging with shareholders.
relation to ethical and other corporate responsibility matters in addition to its existing responsibilities.
As a result I feel it is appropriate to reflect this broadening Sir Roy Gardner of responsibilities and change its name Chairman from the Board Oversight Committee to 25 February 2016 the Corporate Responsibility Committee and increase its membership.
Further information can be found in the individual Committee reports.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2015, Serco Group plc complied fully with all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code with the exception of B.
6 which states that the Board should undertake a formal annual evaluation of Board performance.
As explained in the Chairmans governance review above, an  evaluation was conducted in early 2015 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 and an internal evaluation of Board effectiveness will take place during the summer of 2016 when the Chairman has been in post for a full year.
A performance evaluation of the Chairman, led by the Non-Executive Directors, will also be included in the summer 2016 Board evaluation exercise.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at frc.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 87 Governance in action strategic direction within a framework of risk appetite and controls.
The Boards The raising of capital via a Rights Issue Leadership aim is to ensure that management and the refinancing of our debt facilities strikes an appropriate balance between was a significant event in 2015, requiring Board gender diversity promoting long-term growth and robust governance and oversight by the delivering short-term objectives.
A significant time commitment was required to collectively evaluate The Board is responsible for the potential options presented by demonstrating ethical leadership and management and a number of Board promoting the Companys values, and Committee meetings were held culture and behaviours, and for acting over a short period of time.
In reaching in a way that promotes the success of its decision on the best course of the Company for the benefit of the action and satisfying itself to the best shareholders as a whole.
of its knowledge and belief as to the adequacy of disclosures, the Board Male 7 The Board is also responsible for ensuring sought the views and detailed guidance Female 3 that management maintains systems of of professional advisers and carefully internal control that provide assurance considered the impact on the business of effective and efficient operations, model and strategy, customers and internal financial controls and compliance shareholders.
In addition to the formal with law and regulations.
In addition, Board meetings, the Chairman worked Board tenure the Board is responsible for ensuring closely with the management team that management maintains an effective responsible for execution of the project risk management and oversight process and ensured that other Board members at the highest level across the Group.
were kept informed of progress.
In carrying out these responsibilities, the Board must have regard to what is Our governance framework appropriate for the Groups business and reputation, the materiality of the financial The Serco business is complex and our and other risks inherent in the business governance framework continuously and the relative costs and benefits of evolves to ensure that business decisions implementing specific controls.
The One year 1 and activities and any associated risks are Board is also responsible for deciding carefully controlled and monitored.
The Between one other matters of significance to the Group and three years 7 Serco Management System SMS is a as a whole because of their strategic, comprehensive system including policies Three years 2 financial or reputational implications and processes that gives clarity of roles orconsequences.
and responsibilities, governance and reporting across the business.
Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved for approval by the Board.
The role of the Board These include decisions on the Groups The Board is responsible to shareholders strategy, approval of risk appetite, for creating and delivering sustainable capital and liquidity matters, major shareholder value through the bids, acquisitions, mergers or disposals, management of the Groups businesses.
Board membership, financial results The Board determines the strategic and governance issues including the objectives and policies of the Group to corporate governance framework.
deliver long-term value, providing overall Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 88 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership Meet the Board Sir Roy Gardner 70 Rupert Soames OBE 56 Angus Cockburn 52 Edward J Casey, Jr 57 Mike Clasper CBE 62 Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Sir Roy was appointed a NonRupert joined Serco as Group Angus joined Serco in Ed was appointed Group Chief Mike joined Serco as a Executive Director of Serco Chief Executive Officer in October 2014 as Group Operating Officer in May 2014 Non-Executive Director in Group plc on 1 June 2015, May 2014.
after serving as Acting Group March 2014 and is Senior becoming Chairman on Chief Executive Officer following Independent Director.
1 July 2015. his appointment to the Board in October 2013.
Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Sir Roy is responsible for the Rupert is responsible for the Angus is responsible for the Ed is responsible for the dayMike is Senior Independent effective operation of the Board formation and implementation Groups financial strategy to-day operations of the Group, Director and a member of the and oversight of corporate of the Groups global strategy, and management, including ensuring that the business is Corporate Responsibility and governance.
He is Chair of as well as the day-to-day reporting, forecasting, treasury efficient and effective and that Risk, Audit and Nomination the Nomination and Board management of the business and tax.
He shares responsibility proper service to customers Committees.
Oversight Committees and a operations and our relationships with the Group Chief Executive is conducted.
He is a member member of the Remuneration with investors and other key Officer for our relationship with of the Board Oversight and Corporate Responsibility stakeholders.
He provides shareholders and the City.
Angus Committee, the Executive and Risk Committees.
leadership to the Group and is a member of the Executive Committee and the Approvals represents Serco to major Committee and the Approvals and Allotment Committee.
customers, shareholders and Allotment Committee.
Rupert is a member of the Nomination Committee, the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee, the Executive Committee and the Approvals and Allotment Committee.
Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Previously, Sir Roy was the Prior to joining Serco, Rupert Angus joined Serco from Ed has been with the company Mike was previously the Group since 2005.
Previous to his role as Chairman of Compass Group served for 11 years as the Aggreko plc, the FTSE 100 Chief Executive of BAA plc from Group Chief Operating Officer, PLC, Chief Executive of Centrica Chief Executive of Aggreko temporary power business, 2003 to 2006 and Chairman Ed was Chief Executive Officer plc, Managing Director of GECplc, the FTSE 100 temporary where he served 14 years as of HMRC from 2008 to 2012. of Sercos Americas Division.
Marconi Limited and a Director power business.
During his Chief Financial Officer and Mike was previously the Senior Under Eds leadership, the of GEC plc.
tenure at Aggreko, the market latterly, Interim Chief Executive.
Independent Director at ITV Americas business tripled in size capitalisation of the business Angus brings corporate finance PLC from which he stepped He has also been the and successfully integrated two increased from 450m to over and accounting experience, down on 31 December 2013 Non-Executive Chairman acquisitions: RCI in 2006 and SI 5bn.
Prior to Aggreko, he was gained across a variety of after eight years on the ITV of Manchester United plc, International in 2008. with the software company Misys sectors whilst working for highly Board.
Mike has an MA in Plymouth Argyle Football plc for five years, latterly as Chief competitive global companies.
Engineering from St Johns Prior to Serco, Ed worked Club and Connaught plc and Executive of its Banking and During his tenure at Aggreko he College, Cambridge.
In 1995 he for nine years in the energy a Non-Executive Director of Securities Division.
He spent drove through a programme of was granted the title CBE, and business, including President Laporte plc.
the first 16 years of his career at continuous improvement within received an Honorary Doctorate and Chief Executive Officer GEC plc: in the last four years the finance function.
of NP Energy Inc. an energy Sir Roy is the Chairman of the of his service at GEC he was marketing business he founded Advisory Board of the Energy Prior to Aggreko, Angus spent responsible for the UK, African and later sold: President and Futures Lab at Imperial College three years as Managing Director and Asian operations of AveryChief Operating Officer of London and is the former of Pringle of Scotland, a Division Berkel.
He studied Politics, Tenneco Energy until it was sold Chairman of the Apprenticeship of Dawson International Plc: five Philosophy and Economics for $4bn: and as Group President Ambassadors Network.
years at PepsiCo Inc. in a number at Oxford University and was and Chief Financial Officer for of senior finance positions, President of the Oxford Union.
Previously, Sir Roy is a Fellow of the including Regional Finance Ed worked over ten years in Chartered Association of Director for Central Europe: and investment banking and private Certified Accountants, the several years at KPMG working equity, including with The Royal Aeronautical Society, in the UK and USA.
Angus is Blackstone Group and Fremont the Royal Society of Arts, the an Honorary Professor at the Group LLC.
City & Guilds Institute and the University of Edinburgh.
External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: Sir Roy is the Senior Independent Rupert is Senior Independent Angus is an experienced Ed is a Director of Talen Energy Mike is currently Chairman of Director at William Hill plc, Director of Electrocomponents Non-Executive Director and is Corporation where he is a Coats Group plc and Which?
and Chairman of Mainstream plc and a member of its currently serving on the Board of member of the Audit Committee Limited and President of Renewable Power Ltd.
He is also Remuneration, Nomination GKN plc where he is a member and the Compensation, the Chartered Management a Senior Adviser to Credit Suisse.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Governance and Nominating Institute CMI.
Until January 2016, Sir Roy was a Nomination Committees.
Non-Executive Director of Willis Group Holdings Limited.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 89 Ralph D Crosby Jr 68 Tamara Ingram 55 Rachel Lomax 70 Angie Risley 57 Malcolm Wyman 69 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Ralph joined Serco as a Tamara joined Serco as a Rachel joined Serco as a Angie joined Serco as a Malcolm joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in June 2011.
Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Ralph is a member of the Tamara is a member of the Rachel is the Chair of the Angie is Chair of the Malcolm is Chair of the Audit Board Oversight Committee.
Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Committee Committee and he is also a and Risk and Remuneration Risk Committee and a member and a member of the member of the Remuneration, Committees.
Nomination and Board Oversight Committees.
Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Ralph was Chairman of EADS Tamara is Executive Vice From 2003 to 2008 Rachel was Previously, Angie was Group Malcolm, a chartered North America until his President at WPP, where she Deputy Governor Monetary HR Director at Lloyds Banking accountant, was previously an retirement from that position at is Managing Director at Grey Policy of the Bank of England Group and prior to that she was Executive Director and the Chief the end of December 2011.
and was previously Permanent Executive Director of Whitbread Financial Officer of SABMiller joined EADS in 2002 as Chairman In 2013 Tamara stepped down Secretary at the Department for plc until May 2007, having joined plc, until his retirement in July and Chief Executive Officer of after completing nine years as Transport, the Department for the Whitbread Group in 1989.
Malcolm joined SABMiller EADS North America and also a Non-Executive Director of Work and Pensions formerly the She has also been a member of in 1986 in South Africa and served as a member of the EADS The Sage Group plc.
Previously, Department of Social Security the Low Pay Commission, and a joined the Board as Group global Executive Committee Tamara chaired the Board of Visit and the Welsh Office.
Non-Executive Director of Biffa Corporate Finance Director until 2010.
Previously, Ralph London formerly the London plc and Arriva plc.
He was appointed to held numerous positions Tourist Board from 2001 2011. the Board of SABMiller upon with Northrop Grumman its listing on the London Stock Corporation, concluding over 20 Exchange in 1999.
He was Chief years of service as President of Financial Officer from 2001 until their Integrated Systems Sector.
Prior to his industry career, Ralph served as an Officer in the US Army.
Ralph has an MA in Public Administration from Harvard, an MA in International Relations from the Graduate Institute of International Studies, Switzerland, and a BSc from the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York.
External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: Ralph is a Non-Executive Tamara is currently a Trustee Rachel is Senior Independent Angie is currently the Group Malcolm is a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Director of American Electric of Save the Children UK.
Human Resources Director of J Director and Audit Committee Conduct & Values Committee Power Co Inc. in the United Sainsbury plc, and a member of Chairman of Imperial Tobacco of HSBC Holdings plc.
She is States and Airbus Group, S. E. the Sainsburys Operating Board.
Group plc and Senior a Non-Executive Director of in the Netherlands.
Independent Director and Heathrow Airport Holdings Audit Committee Chairman Limited, and a member of the of Nedbank Group Limited in supervisory board of Arcus South Africa.
Rachel is a Trustee Board member of Imperial College London, the Institute of Fiscal Studies of which she is also President, Ditchley Park, Breugel and City UK.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 90 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership Roles on the Board The roles and responsibilities of the Directors and the Company Secretary are described in more detail below: Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Leads the Board and ensures that it is effective in all aspects of Leads the business to develop and deliver the Groups strategy its role.
and business plans as agreed with the Board.
Takes a leading role in determining the structure and Provides inspirational leadership across the Group, setting the composition of the Board, and its capabilities.
tone from the top to promote the Companys values and the highest ethical behaviour by all employees.
Manages the business of the Board, ensuring that it facilitates the Board to fulfil its role and function and, in doing so, ensuring that: Develops, motivates and retains a strong, professional and  senior management team capable of the Directors receive timely, accurate, concise and clear meeting the challenges associated with the Companys longinformation.
the Board invests sufficient time on each matter for effective Identifies strategic opportunities to enable the Group to grow consideration and decision-making, in keeping with the and differentiate itself, and agrees with the Board a roadmap to relative importance of each matter and especially for complex realising those opportunities.
Accountable for the Groups performance and operational Provides appropriate counsel and support to the Group management, including its: Chief Executive whilst respecting executive responsibility.
operational governance: Takes a leading role in the development and succession needs ethical compass: of the Board, and the effective performance of each Director, profitability: including: competitive market position: and promoting the effective contribution of the Non-Executive risk management and internal control systems.
Directors: and ensuring that new Directors receive an effective induction.
Maintains a close relationship of trust with the Chairman, seeking appropriate counsel and support whilst preserving executive responsibility.
Leads the executive team, setting a personal example, building team spirit, ensuring clear lines of communication, developing individual and team capabilities, and ensuring that robust succession planning processes are in place.
Acts as an effective ambassador for the Group, developing and maintaining strong relationships with current and potential customers, and key stakeholders.
Proactively promotes the Groups investment case to investors and listens to the views of major shareholders on key issues affecting the Group.
Communicates both internally and externally the Groups culture and values, key strategic imperatives and performance of the business, ensuring that a clear sense of purpose is conveyed.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 91 Roles on the Board Group Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Provides leadership in the continuous evaluation of short and longLeads the day-to-day implementation of the Groups strategic and term strategic financial objectives.
Provides accurate and timely financial information and analysis to Directs the following Group functions: Business Development and ensure performance trends are clear and decision-making is based the Centres of Excellence, Information Technology, Corporate on rigorous financial analysis.
Shared Services, Mergers and Acquisitions, Compliance and Risk Management and Business Transformation.
Directs and oversees all aspects of the Finance and Accounting functions of the Group including the recruitment and development Provides oversight of the day-to-day operations of the business.
of the team: responsible for Tax, Treasury and Investor Relations.
Alongside the Group Chief Financial Officer leads the monthly Provides administrative oversight of the Internal Audit function.
Evaluates and advises the Board on the impact of long range Supports the Group Chief Executive Officer in strategic planning planning, introduction of new programmes strategies and and developing and executing implementation plans, including accounting standards.
plans to drive growth through the development of global capabilities and to achieve operational improvements and Provides the Executive Committee with advice on the financial cost savings by better utilising corporate shared services implications of business activities.
Manages processes for financial forecasting, budgets and Chairs the Group Investment Committee review and approval of consolidation reporting.
investment decisions, including acquisitions and disposals, bid Ensures that effective internal controls are in place and ensures approvals and parent company support mechanisms.
compliance with appropriate accounting regulations for financial Accountable for delivery of the Corporate Renewal Programme, and tax reporting.
including responsibility for the Serco Management System, the accurate reporting of operational performance indicators and the adoption of robust compliance and risk management processes.
Working with the Group Chief Information Officer, ensures that the information systems are appropriate to support the operational performance of the Group and the delivery of the strategic plan, and are robust in terms of data and information security.
Has oversight over health and safety, insurance and pensions matters.
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and assists him in the Constructively challenge and contribute to the development of delivery of his objectives as requested.
the Groups strategy and business plans.
Provides an alternative point of contact for principal shareholders Ensure that the Group upholds high standards of integrity and if they have any concerns that are unresolved through normal probity with appropriate oversight over the effective embedding channels of communication.
of the agreed culture, values, and ethical compass.
Seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the views and Maintain effective oversight and review of the Groups concerns of principal shareholders.
performance against agreed goals and objectives, and of the performance of the executive management.
Takes a leading role in the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Maintain an effective understanding and oversight of the Groups Should it become necessary, leads an orderly succession process principal risks and the assurance in place around those risks for the Chairman.
including the results of the internal audit programme.
In the unlikely event that there is a serious failure in Board Satisfy themselves as to: governance, or where normal Board functioning is seriously impaired or the Chairman is unable to act: the integrity of the financial statements and all other formal announcements: will act as an intermediary where necessary: and whether, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is will intervene to resolve the issues and restore the Board to fair, balanced and understandable: effective functioning.
whether the Groups risk management and internal control processes, including those relating to the financial reporting process, are robust and defensible: and whether the Board has robustly assessed the solvency and liquidity risks faced by the Group.
Taking primary roles in: appointing and, if necessary, removing Executive Directors, and in Board succession planning.
the Boards determination of remuneration policy for the Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee members and the Company Secretary.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 92 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership continued Roles on the Board Company Secretary Responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters.
Assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Board procedures are followed and that there are good information flows, together with facilitating induction programmes for newly appointed Directors.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association include provisions reflecting recommended best practice concerning any Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board has in place procedures for Directors to report any potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest, only those Directors that have no interest in the matter under consideration are able to take the relevant decision acting in a way they consider, in good faith, is most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors may impose conditions or limitations when giving any authorisation, if they think this is appropriate.
The process of reviewing conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of Directors conflicts, which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
How the Board operates The Board and its committees Currently the Board has ten members comprising the Chairman, three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Board organises itself with clear divisions of responsibility so that no individual or group of individuals has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Whilst each constituent of the Board carries out distinct but complementary roles and responsibilities, collectively all Directors work for the long-term success of the Company.
Many key Board responsibilities are referred to four standing Board Committees: the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committees.
This structure allows particularly detailed or complex matters to be given special scrutiny and oversight.
The Board has a fifth committee, the Approvals and Allotments Committee.
This Committee comprises the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and meets on an ad hoc basis to approve proposals that have more operational significance but do not merit full Board consideration.
The Board Oversight Committee is an additional committee formed in 2013 to oversee the Corporate Renewal Programme.
The Board Oversight Committee will remain in place to provide oversight and assurance, monitoring the further embedding of the initiatives, policies and procedures that have been put in place as part of the Corporate Renewal Programme.
As a result of the changes to the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee outlined in the Chairman's governance overview above, including renaming it to be the Risk Committee, the Board Oversight Committee will also take on responsibility for some corporate responsibility related items and will be renamed the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
More information can be found in the Board Oversight Committee report on pages 118 and 119.
Except where decisions are specifically delegated, each Committee reports and submits recommendations back to the Board for its review and, where necessary, decision.
Each Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference, which are reviewed annually by the respective Committees and, if necessary, approved by the Board to ensure they remain appropriate and reflect any changes in good practice and governance.
The Terms of Reference of each Committee are all available online at www.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense and Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Board and the Committees meet with sufficient frequency to fulfil their respective responsibilities, using structured but flexible agendas to ensure that regular matters are addressed properly, while allowing time to discuss significant new issues.
More information on the work and performance of the Board can be found in the following pages.
Separate reports describing the activities of the Audit, Board Oversight, Corporate Responsibility and Risk, Nomination, and Remuneration Committees are presented on pages 104 to 143.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 93 Conduct of meetings Board meetings are scheduled eight times a year.
The Company uses an electronic portal to ensure that papers are provided in a timely and secure manner.
Board meetings are held over one, two or three days and are structured to allow open discussion of the strategy and trading and financial performance of the Group.
To facilitate a proper understanding of the Groups businesses at Board and Committee meetings the opportunity is used to combine the formal business of the Board with Divisional presentations and discussions.
During 2015 the Board held a meeting in Dubai and received a presentation from the members of the Middle East Division management team and undertook a number of local contract site visits and reviews.
Additional Board meetings are held as required.
Board decisions are usually taken by consensus.
Exceptionally, if a decision is to be taken by vote, the Chairman has a second or casting vote.
Reserved matters There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This schedule, which is reviewed annually, includes approval of: the Group strategy: annual financial and operating plans: major contract bid decisions, capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: annual and half-year financial results and satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information: the Companys dividend policy: ensuring there are adequate succession plans for the Board and senior management: appointing and removing Directors, the Company Secretary and committee members: setting and reviewing risk management and treasury policies: setting levels of operational delegated authorities: agreeing the Groups culture, values, and ethical compass: reviewing the Groups overall governance arrangements: and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Committees are given on pages 104 and 143.
The membership of each Committee is reviewed regularly to ensure the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 94 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Effectiveness The work of the Board At each Board meeting, the Group Chief Executive Officer presents a comprehensive update on strategic and business issues across the Group together with an update on transformation and portfolio management activity: the Chief Operating Officer reports on contract performance, business development, strategy implementation and health and safety: and the Group Chief Financial Officer presents an analysis of the financial performance, both at Group and divisional levels.
Other senior executives attend relevant parts of Board meetings in order to inform the Board of developments and activities in their areas of responsibility.
This provides the Board with access to a broader group of executives and helps Directors make assessments of the Groups emerging talent as potential succession to senior management roles.
During the year, the Board conducted in-depth reviews of operations and strategy.
A number of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman have spent time at contract site visits with local management in Hong Kong, USA, Australia and the UK.
The Executive Directors regularly visit sites around the world.
Further site and contract visits are planned for 2016.
At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its responsibilities and, in particular, reviewed the areas detailed in the table below: Strategy and transformation Group and divisional corporate strategies, including Centres of Excellence, exit of the private sector BPO business and portfolio management.
Funding and capital Approval and completion of the Rights Issue, debt refinancing: tax and treasury policy.
Investor relations Investor and analyst feedback following release of full year 2014 and half year 2015 results.
Business performance The operational performance of each of the divisional businesses and periodic updates presented by divisional management teams: health and safety reviews.
Governance Recruitment of a new Chairman and consideration of legal governance and compliance developments.
Financial and risk management The Group's business plans, presentations on the Group risk register and significant areas of risk.
Diversity, talent and succession Presentations from the Group Human Resources and Talent Directors on diversity and inclusion, succession and talent management and development across the Group.
Board effectiveness Balance To be effective, the Board must understand the dynamics of Sercos mix of complex businesses across many diverse markets, including the issues and factors upon which sustained success depends.
A balance of experience, skills and viewpoints within the Board promotes overall Board effectiveness and enhances Company performance in the long-term.
The Directors are drawn from different backgrounds and industries, and each has extensive experience of other international businesses in sectors that help inform and augment Board debate.
Induction, training and ongoing development On joining the Board, each Director receives a personalised induction programme including: an overview of the Groups businesses, risks, governance arrangements and relations with investors: structured meetings with a range of relevant senior managers from across the Group: meetings with key advisers and shareholders as appropriate to the Directors role: and site and contract visits to gain first-hand insight into operational contracts with major customers.
Legal and regulatory updates are essential for good governance, to ensure that Directors understand the operational environment of the business.
The Board and committee meetings incorporate briefings periodically on changes to the business, legislative and regulatory environment, and on other relevant topics, such as changes to the corporate and remuneration reporting landscape.
External speakers are invited to present to the Board on current relevant issues.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 95 As part of its annual evaluation process, the Board considers the training needs of the Directors and the Company Secretary.
Development needs fall within the remit of the Chairman, who reviews and agrees these with each individual.
All Board members are encouraged to attend relevant external training courses at the Companys expense.
More information on Board evaluation can be found on page 96.
An induction programme for the Chairman including site visits and meetings with stakeholders, senior executives of, and advisers to, the Group progressed throughout 2015.
All Directors continue to undertake programmes of contract visits and meetings with senior executives as highlighted above.
Board independence The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
In coming to this conclusion, it has determined that each Non-Executive Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgements.
In particular, they are independent of management and have no cross-directorships or significant links that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the Chairman or Executive Directors being present at least once a year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considered the Chairman to be independent on his appointment in July 2015.
The Nomination Committee keeps the Boards diversity, balance and independence under review.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Directors are summarised in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 130 and 131 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Re-election of Directors The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that each Director shall retire but be eligible for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM held in the third calendar year following the year in which he or she was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Any Directors appointed by the Board since the last AGM must stand for re-election at the next AGM.
Any NonExecutive Directors, excluding the Chairman, who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the above, in accordance with provisions contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors retired and stood for re-election at the 2015 AGM and will do so, on an annual basis, at each AGM.
Their names will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Time commitment and external directorships As part of the Board evaluation process, the available time commitment of each Director is considered.
The Board considers that the Executive Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent sector organisations.
The Board is careful to ensure that any such appointments do not present any material conflicts of interest to Serco, or compromise the effective management of the Group, and these are approved in advance of any appointments being taken up.
Details of the fees received by Executive Directors for external appointments can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 140.
Sir Roy Gardner was appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 July 2015.
Sir Roy is the Senior Independent Director at William Hill plc and Chairman of Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd.
He is also a Senior Adviser to Credit Suisse.
Prior to Sir Roys appointment the Board carefully considered these commitments and concluded that they would not have any material impact on his role as Chairman of Serco Group plc.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 96 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Board attendance The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
During the year there were eight scheduled Board meetings and one additional meeting: five scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings and one additional meeting: four scheduled Audit Committee meetings and four additional meetings: and four scheduled Nomination Committee meetings and two additional meetings.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings of which they were members during 2015 was as follows: Corporate Responsibility Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and Risk Oversight Number held 9 8 6 6 4 3 Edward J. Casey, Jnr 9 N a N a N a N a 3 Mike Clasper 9 8 N a 5 4 N a Angus Cockburn 9 N a N a N a N a N a Ralph D. Crosby Jr. 8 N a N a N a N a 3 a Sir Roy Gardner 5 5 N a 1 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 Tamara Ingram 7 N a 6 N a 3 N a Rachel Lomax 8 7 N a N a 4 N a b Alastair Lyons 4 4 N a 4 4 2 5 2 2 1 1 Angie Risley 9 N a 6 6 N a N a Rupert Soames 9 N a N a 6 4 N a Malcolm Wyman 8 8 5 6 N a 2 a Sir Roy Gardner joined the Board on 1 June 2015. b Alastair Lyons retired from the Board on 1 July 2015.
All the meetings of the Nomination Committee that he did not attend dealt with the appointment of his replacement and were chaired by Mike Clasper, the Senior Independent Director.
The number of meetings held includes scheduled and additional meetings.
The table excludes the attendance of Directors who attended meetings by invitation only.
Where a number is given in brackets against a Directors attendance, this is the number of meetings which took place during their tenure.
Performance evaluation A formal independent effectiveness review of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was carried out in early 2015 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 and was facilitated externally by CTMC&A Limited, an independent company with no connections to the Board.
CTMC&A Limited has previously facilitated an effectiveness review of the Board.
The results have been discussed by the Board and shared with the Chairman following his appointment.
An internal review of Board effectiveness will take place in summer 2016.
No review of the Chairman has been carried out since February 2014 as at the time of the last Board effectiveness review in 2015, Alastair Lyons had indicated his intention to step down and a review of Sir Roy Gardner is due to take place at the same time as the wider Board evaluation process that is scheduled for the summer of 2016.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 97 Accountability Managing business risks and internal control Serco has a system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management controls, designed to manage and minimise risks that would adversely affect service levels to our customers, and safeguard shareholders investments, our assets, our people and our reputation collectively business risks.
For each system of internal control, we have defined within the SMS Group Standards the processes and associated controls that must be in place together with clear definitions of those individuals responsible for ensuring compliance.
To provide assurance that these controls are implemented and effective, we have implemented a three lines of defence model, i. e. the business, compliance assurance via the Group Compliance Assurance Programme and the internal audit programme.
First line of defence We seek to minimise the probability and impact of business risks through the consistent implementation of the SMS, ensuring that appropriate process infrastructure and controls are in place and that appropriately trained staff are in place to monitor mitigation plans.
While SMS controls are designed to mitigate and minimise business risks, these risks cannot be completely eliminated.
Consequently, while SMS controls can provide reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss, this cannot be absolute.
Second line of defence As part of the ongoing management of the SMS, we have introduced a specific set of standards and procedures on compliance assurance and implemented a Group Compliance Assurance Programme to ensure a consistent approach across the Group in assuring business compliance with SMS controls.
In 2015 we also rolled out a self-assessment process to enable contracts to self-assess their compliance with the SMS and plan actions to close any gaps.
As part of the requirements of the Group Compliance Assurance Programme, the self-assessments are validated through selective compliance assurance reviews and recommendations on future improvements are provided.
This process will be repeated in future in order to reinforce and continually improve compliance levels.
Third line of defence Internal audit provides an independent assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups governance, risk management and controls that are in place to manage risk.
The Internal Audit team carries out an annual programme of risk-based audits reporting findings to the Audit Committee.
The audit programme is approved by the Audit Committee and is continually revised throughout the year to ensure it remains focused on appropriate areas of the business.
The in-house Internal Audit team uses KPMG as a co-sourced resource where appropriate.
The Board confirms that the three lines of defence have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 98 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Roles and responsibilities The following provides an overview of the roles and responsibilities across the Group with respect to the three lines of defence approach and the Executive Committee and Board oversight of the effectiveness of the controls in place.
First line of defence the business Functions The Functions and Divisions of Serco are responsible for identifying and managing the risks in line with the policy and Divisions and standard defined within the SMS and implementing the controls defined in the SMS.
The SMS requires every contract, business unit and division to identify and assess their business risks, to implement mitigation actions and contingency plans to mitigate the probability and or impact of their material risks i. e. risks that are likely to have a significant impact on our business objectives, and to monitor and report on these material risks on a periodic basis.
Business leaders are responsible for the business activity and assign subject matter experts to material risks.
They are supported by appointed risk register managers trained on the Group Risk standard and procedures.
The subject matter experts are responsible for managing the risk and updating the risk on the risk register.
Business leaders own the register and are responsible for the risks registered on it: they are also responsible for upward reporting of material risks to the next organisational level up on a periodic basis.
Subject matter experts for a material risk assess the effectiveness of the controls put in place and review the risk ratings by: monitoring the status of mitigation actions: reviewing the results of SMS self-assessment checklists completed by the business: reviewing the findings of the management assurance reviews and audits: monitoring the status of key performance indicators: and identifying any issues or events either internal or external that impact on the risk exposure or the ability of a control to mitigate a risk.
Divisional risk registers are developed by divisional Risk Directors and reviewed by the divisional Executive Management Teams on a monthly basis.
Material risks are reported upwards to the Group Risk and Compliance Function on a quarterly basis to assist with the update of the status of the principal risks on the Group risk register.
Second line of defence compliance assurance Functions The Group Compliance Assurance Programme is delivered through the divisional Compliance Assurance Plans.
and Divisions These plans consist of the divisional compliance assurance reviews that will provide comfort that the business is compliant with the SMS, external laws and regulations and customer contract obligations.
A divisional Compliance Lead is appointed by the divisional CEO with responsibility for developing and implementing the Divisional Compliance Assurance Plan.
The divisional Compliance Assurance Plan is developed at the end of each year for the following years delivery: it is reviewed and approved by the divisional Executive Management Team EMT and is signed off by the Group Risk and Compliance Function.
The results of the divisional compliance assurance reviews are reviewed by the divisional EMT, and progress against the plan is reported to the Group Risk and Compliance Function and Group Internal Audit on a quarterly basis.
The Group Risk and Compliance Function then reports overall progress of the Group Compliance Assurance Programme to the Executive Committee and the Boards sub-committees.
On an annual basis a compliance sign-off statement is received from each divisional CEO and reviewed by the Audit Committee to confirm Group internal controls are being implemented and that there are no known control failures that present an unmitigated material risk to the division or the Group.
Group The Group Risk and Compliance Function is responsible for managing the SMS, and for the development and Risk and implementation of policies and standards associated with Risk Management and with Compliance Assurance.
Compliance Function The function is the custodian of the corporate enterprise risk management tool and is responsible for the management of the Group risk register and for reporting the status of the principal risks to the Executive Committee and the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee.
The function also provides assurance over the business providing risk management oversight, assurance and challenge of the divisional and corporate function registers: overseeing the Group-wide Compliance Assurance Programme to ensure divisional and functional reviews take into account the Group principal risks: and is the custodian of the SMS self-assessment tool, providing overall coordination and assessment of the results of the annual completion of the checklists by the business.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 99 Third line of defence internal audit programme Group The Group Head of Internal Audit leads the Internal Audit function reporting functionally to the Chair of the Audit Internal Committee and is responsible for delivery of the internal audit programme, ensuring that it is risk-based and Audit aligned with the overall strategy of the Group.
Function The Group Head of Internal Audit also makes regular reports to the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee and the findings of the overall internal audit programme are reported directly to the Audit Committee.
Executive Committee and Board Oversight Executive The Executive Committee owns the principal risks on the Group risk register.
Each principal risk is assigned to a Committee senior executive who sponsors the management of the risk and assigns a subject matter expert to assist in the identification and monitoring of the material controls required to mitigate the risk.
The Executive Committee then reviews the Group Risk Register quarterly ahead of formal review by the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee and provides direction on the mitigation actions required to implement or improve the effectiveness of material controls put in place see pages 26 to 29.
Board The Board has overall responsibility for our risk management and internal control system and for reviewing its and subeffectiveness.
A formal review of the principal risks on the Group risk register is carried out on a quarterly basis by committees the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee and a formal review of the findings of the overall internal audit programme is carried out by the Audit Committee.
Risk management approach Our risk management policies, standards, and risk management lifecycle processes align to the guidance contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code and form part of the SMS.
They ensure that we identify, review and report risks at all levels of our business, reflecting the nature of the activities being undertaken at that level, the inherent business and operational risks, and the level of control considered necessary to protect our interests and those of our stakeholders.
The risk management lifecycle includes five key stages that aim to identify the key risks of our operations and to ensure we have a consistent approach to recording, analysing and mitigating them.
Risk identification identifying the risks associated with the achievement of business objectives.
In identifying the potential risks both external factors arising from the environment within which we operate, and internal risks arising from the nature of our business are considered as well as the associated controls, processes, and management decisions.
Risk analysis assessing the level of risk exposure, based on an assessment of the probability of an identified risk materialising and the impact if it does using a standard risk scoring system.
Inherent and residual risk ratings are assessed at this stage and risks are ranked according to both their ratings and their proximity.
Risk registers are developed at this stage and maintained at contract, division and Group level.
Registers are periodically analysed to assess threats to our business objectives.
Risk mitigation identifying controls that will reduce material risks to a target risk rating that is aligned with our risk appetite, and implementing cost-effective mitigation actions that improve the effectiveness of the controls in mitigating the risk including contingency plans which reduce the severity of the impact of the risks should they occur.
Risk monitoring includes monitoring mitigation actions and their impact so as to improve the effectiveness of controls and improving the residual risk rating as well as monitoring changes to our business and the external environment, to ensure that we have sight of and respond appropriately to reduce the impact of emerging risks, and removing those risks from the register that are no longer relevant.
Risk reporting reporting of the status of material risks up through the management chain to the next organisational level to provide assurance that business risks are being appropriately managed and the controls in place are effective.
Risk reports are also used to provide insight on emerging risks which require additional management attention, as well as systematic risks which might require Group-wide controls as appropriate.
Risk reporting processes are both 'bottom-up', whereby principal risks are communicated to the divisional Risk Directors, divisional CEOs and the Executive Committee, and top down assessment of the principal risks by the Executive Committee to ensure divisional risk registers are focusing on risks that are considered most important to the organisation from a strategic perspective.
The divisional risk registers are reported on a quarterly basis to the Group Risk and Compliance Function, and the Group risk registers are reported on a quarterly basis to both the Executive Committee and the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 100 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Group Compliance Assurance Programme A structured approach to compliance assurance is delivered through the Group Compliance Assurance Programme: this consists of individual divisional Compliance Assurance Plans, which are a series of formal reviews coordinated by divisional Compliance Leads.
A divisional Compliance Assurance Plan will cover the business units, functional areas and contracts: it includes a selection of legal and regulatory reviews, customer contract mandated reviews, process and control reviews, and any mandated Group and divisional reviews.
The Plan is designed to provide sampled assurance of compliance to support the divisional CEO statement of internal control and risk management: improve the internal control environment through implementation of action plans following identification of internal control weaknesses, and promote sharing of best practice.
The reviews are carried out by independent assurance personnel and coordinated by the divisional Compliance Lead.
At the end of each review, a report is provided to and discussed with the entity lead: this report provides the review findings and any agreed corrective action plans.
A quarterly report of progress against the plan is discussed and approved by the divisional EMT: common trends or issues found are highlighted to enable management to consider areas for improvement and ensure corrective action is taken.
These divisional reports are then consolidated at Group level by the Group Risk and Compliance Function for reporting to the Executive Committee, the Board and its sub-committees.
Internal Audit Programme The 2015 Internal Audit programme consisted of a programme of audits covering a sample of contracts, functions and risk themes and has been delivered in full.
Findings have been reported to the Audit Committee with senior management providing updates on the status of significant business actions where appropriate.
Findings and common themes have also been presented to the Executive Committee to enable management to understand the themes and to ensure appropriate actions are being taken.
Improvements to the three lines of defence During 2015, we have continued with the three-year programme established in 2014, refreshing our overall risk management approach to better support the development and ongoing performance of the global business.
In 2015 we further enhanced our policies, processes and systems and gave more clarity on roles and responsibilities, governance and reporting.
During the year we have also continued training our business leaders and employees, improved risk management capacity and capability in our global business, and improved visibility of risk focusing on periodic management information and decisionmaking.
Other improvements made in 2015 included: Executive Committee detailed review of principal risks and appointment of executive sponsors for each risk to oversee the deployment of controls and actions to mitigate: rolling out a global SMS self-assessment process the results of which has helped us identify areas where compliance is to be strengthened, inform changes needed to the SMS and inform compliance assurance reviews to be put in place for 2016: new Compliance Assurance procedures have been put in place which include specific divisional risk-based, regulatory or customer required reviews as well as group mandated reviews.
Group mandated reviews are derived from the principal risks affecting the business: external review of the effectiveness of the Global Internal Audit function GIA was completed highlighting areas of good practice and areas to focus on developing to further improve internal audit services.
This has been incorporated into a revised GIA strategy with the main focus on working with other lines of defence to provide a holistic approach to assurance and further refining the risk based audit approach: and external review of the divisional risk processes was also carried out, and the results used to improve risk management processes in 2016.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 101 Managing joint venture risks We participate in a number of joint ventures and partnerships JVs with other companies or government enterprises in various markets around the world.
These JV arrangements take various forms and include contractual agreements to work collaboratively and the setting up of special purpose vehicles companies limited by shares, companies limited by guarantee, etc.
in order to bid for and or operate service contracts.
Serco ensure that these JV investments are set up appropriately via the governance and ownership arrangements which typically include the following controls: partnership or JV Board at the on-set a board is set up in line with the ownership and shareholder arrangements of a particular JV.
These arrangements will include customary voting rights and minority protection provisions that are designed to appropriately protect Sercos interests.
Serco nominees participate in Board meetings on a periodic basis, and review the financial and operational performance of the JV or partnership.
line management oversight performance of a JV is reported on a periodic basis by the JVs management through the normal line management which, depending on the nature of the JV, report to business unit MD or division CEO directly.
Business issues and material risks are monitored this way and, where appropriate, reported through the Divisional Performance Review DPR processes.
ethical compliance of third parties due diligence checks are typically carried out on external parties, to ensure that Serco has a good understanding of JV partner s and to gather information to actively manage criminal, regulatory or other reputational risks that could arise.
Financial reporting process The Company has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of the preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial statements.
The process includes: the involvement of qualified, professional employees with an appropriate level of experience in Group Finance and across the Divisions: formal sign-offs from divisional Chief Executive Officers and Finance Directors: comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from key internal Group functions: a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information to the external auditor: engagement of a professional and experienced firm of external auditors: and oversight of the Audit Committee, involving amongst other duties: a detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which have been discussed by management: and review and where appropriate, challenge on matters including the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies and practices during the year: significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: the going concern assumption: and the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior to endorsement by the Board.
The above processes provide comfort to the Board that the Group has undertaken an appropriate approach to include the necessary information for it to consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Business conduct Serco operates within a management system that defines the policies, standards and processes to be applied wherever we operate.
Integral to this is our policy on Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all business divisions, operating companies and business units throughout the Group.
This policy outlines the Groups position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues including conflicts of interest, financial inducements, human rights and legal and regulatory compliance.
It applies to Directors and to all employees regardless of their position or location.
Recognising that ethical dilemmas may arise in a growing company, the Group has an ethics consultation process that is to be followed to determine the Groups position on particular issues.
As the leadership of the Company, the Executive Committee will make judgements about what it considers acceptable with reference, where appropriate, to the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 102 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued The Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee provides oversight of our approach to corporate responsibility and its governance, ethics, risk management, security and health, safety and environment matters.
Each division has an Ethics Lead responsible for the development and implementation of the divisions ethics and compliance programme in line with Group strategy and assessed risks.
Our Code of Conduct is provided to all staff www.
com codeofconduct and included in induction training.
In 2015 we further strengthened ethical governance across the business with a refresh of our assessment of ethical, human rights and compliance risks.
We have revised and refreshed our Say No Toolkit serco.
net : and strengthened our due diligence processes for third parties.
Sercos externally managed Speak Up service operated throughout the year, which enabled employees to report any concerns, or report any wrongdoing that they did not feel able to raise with their line manager, human resources colleagues or through other reporting channels.
In addition to the service, which is available 24 hours a day, toll-free worldwide in several languages, employees can also make reports via email or the internet.
The Company Secretary independently investigates, with external specialist support where required, any issues raised and reports back to the Executive Committee, Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee and, as appropriate, the Board.
The Group maintains a position of neutrality with respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds to any political party.
It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect the Group in the countries in which it operates.
Going concern In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, 2014: namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Groups current principal debt facilities at the year-end comprised a 480m revolving credit facility, and 375m of US private placement notes.
Subsequent to year-end, the Group has repaid 113m of the US private placement notes, which left 262m of notes outstanding.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had 855m of committed credit facilities and committed headroom of 777m.
Assessment of going concern The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity, taking into account financial forecasts.
In order to satisfy ourselves that we have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under our debt covenants, and our ability to generate cash from trading activities.
Review period In undertaking this review the Directors have considered the business plans which provide financial projections for the foreseeable future.
For the purposes of this review, we consider that to be the period ending 30 June 2017.
The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks considered on pages 16 to 25 of the Strategic Report and taken account of the results of sensitivity testing.
Assessment The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Engaging with shareholders How we engage with shareholders Serco uses a variety of means to gain insight into the views of shareholders and other stakeholders, and the Board is regularly briefed on the feedback received through these engagement channels.
Primary responsibility for engaging with shareholders rests with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders should these normal communication channels fail to resolve an issue, or are inappropriate for any reason.
We have formal arrangements for engaging with shareholders, including those described opposite.
Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 103 Investor meetings The Executive Directors and the Investor Relations team regularly meet with analysts and major investors to maintain effective dialogue.
The Chairman also offers to meet with the Companys largest institutional investors each year.
As part of an induction programme following his appointment in 2015, the Chairman engaged with our five largest shareholders.
The Board reviews an investor relations report each quarter.
This highlights share price movements, changes in the share register, the Companys recent and planned investor relations activities, analyst recommendations and financial forecasts for the Company, and significant news from the market and the support services sector.
This report contributes significantly to the Boards understanding of investors views.
Annual General Meetings AGMs The AGM provides an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders, especially our private shareholders.
Individual shareholders have the opportunity to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairs of the various Board Committees and other Directors.
The Notice of Meeting will set out the resolutions being proposed at the AGM to be held on 12 May 2016.
It is the Companys policy at present for all resolutions to be voted at a general meeting by way of a poll.
A poll reflects the number of voting rights exercisable by each member and is considered by the Board to be a more democratic method of voting.
Shareholders are advised of the total number of votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories for and against together with the number of votes withheld.
This information is also posted on the Groups website www.
Formal consultations When a material change in remuneration policy is being considered, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with major investors and seeks their views.
From time to time, we seek the views of major shareholders on other Company proposals.
Direct communications initiated by shareholders and representative bodies From time to time, we receive enquiries and circulars directly from major shareholders and representative bodies, such as the Investment Management Association, the National Association of Pension Funds now known as the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association and Pensions Investment Research Consultants.
We also review the various environmental, social and governance reports published about us annually and consider whether any changes are needed and to respond to any specific comments.
External advisers Legal, financial, remuneration and communications advisers gain insights into shareholder attitudes in the course of conducting specific research or through their work with other clients.
Relevant insights are shared with the Board and its committees.
Corporate website The Group website www.
com is a primary source of information on the Group.
The site includes an area tailored for investors, including information such as an archive of all reports, announcements, presentations and webcasts, share price tools, the terms of reference for all Board Committees, and information on voting at the Annual General Meeting.
It also has a link directly to the Companys registrars, allowing shareholders to view their shareholding online and to vote on the resolutions set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 25 February 2016 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report
