GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board meets formally on a regular basis CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT nine times in 2015 : in addition there were This Corporate Governance Report describes the three meetings of the Audit Committee in manner in which the Company has applied the 2015, together with four meetings of the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee and three meetings Code the Corporate Governance Code.
There was full STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE attendance at every full Board meeting and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Committee of the Board during the year.
The Company has been in compliance with OtherCommittees are appointed by the Board thePrinciples set out in Sections A to E of the to deal with treasury matters and specific Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
issues such as acquisitions and disposals.
The minutes arising from all Committee APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE meetings are made available to the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Procedures are in place to ensure that all The Principles of good corporate governance Directors are properly briefed, so that decisions are detailed in the Corporate Governance Code taken by the Board are based on the fullest, under five areas.
These Principles have each up-to-date, available information.
The Nonbeen reviewed by the Directors and are executive Directors are encouraged to visit commented upon as follows: theGroups operations to meet the local CHAIRMANS LETTER Section A: Leadership management teams and discuss any issues I am pleased to present the Groups The Board is structured under a Non-executive that they may face.
At every Board meeting Corporate Governance Report for 2015 on Chairman, and currently includes two Executive there are reviews of operational, financial and behalf of the Board.
This report is intended Directors and six independent Non-executive administrative matters.
Health, safety and to provide shareholders with a clear and Directors, who were selected for appointment environmental performance is reviewed by meaningful explanation of what because of their wide industrial and theBoard on a regular basis: social and ethical governance means to the Board and how commercial experience.
In addition, the issues, the agreement of budgets and levels this guides its decision-making process.
Company has an Executive Committee, chaired ofinsurance cover are reviewed whenever Good corporate governance is taken by the Group Chief Executive, comprising the appropriate.
seriously across the Group: the Board Executive Directors and other key executives setsthe tone and takes the lead on all There is a procedure by which all Directors can within the Group.
Details of the members of governance matters.
obtain independent professional advice at the the Board and of the Executive Committee are Companys expense in furtherance of their summarised on pages 38 and 41.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board duties, if required.
reviewed the requirements of the UK The Directors consider that an effective Board Corporate Governance Code in 2015 and Section B: Effectiveness is in place which leads and controls the Group, Iconfirm that the Company complies, The Companys Nominations Committee with clear divisions of responsibility between andwill continue to do so.
leadsthe process for Board appointments, the running of the Board and the running of the andsupervises management development Groups businesses.
It also makes Chairman The Board is responsible for strategic decisions recommendations to the Board on all new Board affecting the Group, including the setting of appointments and re-appointments, further commercial strategy and the approval of Group details of which can be found on page 47. budgets and financial statements.
It also TheCommittee, which consists entirely of approves significant financial and contractual Non-executive Directors, is chaired by Charles commitments made by the Group.
The Boards Berry, its composition is shown on page 38, Terms of Reference more fully describe the and its Terms of Reference may be found on responsibilities of the Board and may be found the Companys website.
The Board considers on the Companys website.
all Non-executive Directors of the Company tobe independent, having taken into account a The Board delegates a certain number of its list of relationships and circumstances that may responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, appear relevant in determining independence, in Nominations, and Health, Safety & accordance with the Corporate Governance Code.
The Group Chief Executive, together with the Executive When appointing new Directors, the Committee, is responsible for the Nominations Committee is fully cognisant of implementation of the decisions made by the benefits of diversity: the Boards policy on theBoard and for the day-to-day conduct of diversity is described on page 47. theGroups operations.
During 2015, the Board undertook a recruitment process to select a new Non-executive Director and Susan Brennan was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016.
Details of the appointment 44 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Senior does not restrict any of its employees are included in the Nominations Committee Section C: Accountability Report on page 47.
Korn Ferry was the The Board determines the nature and extent inany of the countries in which it operates fromjoining a trade union if they wish to do so.
consultancy firm appointed to support the ofthe significant actions necessary to achieve recruitment process for the new Non-executive its strategic objectives and maintains a sound Senior also works closely with its suppliers to ensure that they at least meet internationally Director, which was led by the Chairman.
The Companys KornFerry has no other connection with Audit Committee reports to and, for certain recognised minimum requirements for workers welfare and conditions of employment.
A summary of the Directors matters, advises the Board of Directors.
All Directors TheAudit Committee Report on pages 48 to Reporting and investigating concerns and receive induction upon joining the Board and 52 describes the role and activities of the Audit whistle-blowing are encouraged to update their knowledge and Committee, together with the significant The Company encourages Group employees to skills on a regular basis.
issues that it considered in relation to the 2015 discuss any ethical concerns that they may Financial Statements and its relationship with To enable the members of the Board and have with local management.
the internal and external Auditors.
itsCommittees to discharge their duties As part of its internal control procedures, the effectively, the Group Company Secretary An explanation of how the Board assessed Company has a Whistle-blowing Policy that seeks to ensure that all relevant information theeffectiveness of the external audit process, iscommunicated throughout the Group.
This isprovided to the Directors in a timely manner, the approach taken to re-appoint the external policy provides employees with the opportunity inadvance of meetings.
Auditor and the Companys policy on the to report suspected unethical or illegal tendering of the external audit are to be found corporate conduct confidentially and In 2015, an external evaluation of the Board on page 51. andits Committees was commissioned: the anonymously.
All reports of suspected unethical or illegal corporate conduct are formal review was undertaken by Equity Communicating the Code of Conduct and Communications Limited.
The reviews operating with integrity independently investigated and tracked from inception to resolution and, where necessary, findings showed that the Board operated Senior trains its employees on the effectively throughout the period and made requirements of its Code of Conduct actions are taken to rectify any weakness in systems that may have been identified.
some suggestions for its future development.
theCode upon induction, educating them on The findings will be used to help support the what they can and cannot do, and how to Theseactions, and the overall integrity of the reporting system, are subject to regular development of the Board as the Group address any ethical dilemmas they may face.
continues with its strategy to grow profitability, The Code is reissued periodically to remind scrutiny by the Audit Committee.
This process employees of the required level of conduct.
is also available to third parties, such as both organically and by acquisition.
Equity Communications Limited has no other The Groups ethical procedures and Code were suppliers and customers.
Subject to reviewed in the light of the UK Bribery Act confidentiality considerations, the outcome connection with the Company.
2010 and anti-bribery training was rolled out ofeach investigation is provided insofar as In addition, in 2015 the Chairman undertook across the Group in 2012: this training is now ispossible, to the complainant.
areview of the performance of individual routinely operated on an ongoing basis tonew Directors: this process involved one-on-one Andy Hamment is currently the Companys employees.
An enhanced training programme appraisal interviews.
The results of the Senior Independent Director.
Mark Vernon is will be rolled out across the Groupin 2016. evaluation process are used to improve Board tobecome the Senior Independent Director, performance and to determine the training The Board verifies compliance with the Code when Andy retires from the Board in April needs of the Directors.
Andy Hamment, in through its internal audit programme, ensuring 2016.
This position provides employees and consultation with the Directors, undertook that employees have received the mandatory third parties with an alternative channel of anevaluation of the Chairmans performance, training and its businesses operate with integrity communication to resolve issues if they have and concluded that Charles Berry provided at all times and in compliance with the Code.
aconcern that the Chairman, Group Chief effective leadership of the Board.
Based on the Executive or Group Finance Director have failed Operating with integrity and in an ethical results of the performance evaluation process, to resolve, or where such contact with them is manner builds trust with customers and other the Chairman considers that all members of not appropriate.
stakeholders and underpins the Boards the Board, the Board collectively, and its strategic objectives.
Managing external sales agents Committees, continue to contribute effectively The Board recognises the potential bribery and to the running of the Company.
Human rights corruption risks posed by the markets in which The Group recognises the importance of the Group operates and, in particular, the use In compliance with the Corporate Governance theUniversal Declaration of Human Rights Code, all Directors offered themselves for ofthird-party intermediaries it engages.
All UDHR and adheres to the core principles external sales agents and representatives re-election at the Companys AGM 2015, with and values defined within it.
The majority of the exception of Mark Rollins, who retired from working on behalf of Senior across the world countries in which Senior operates have their are required to operate in compliance with the the Board on 31 May 2015.
At the AGM 2016, own laws banning child labour and promoting all Directors will again offer themselves for Code of Conduct.
Local management conducts human rights.
Senior monitors the ages of its a due diligence and risk assessment process election or re-election with the exception of workforce across the world to ensure Andy Hamment, who is to retire from the Board prior to engaging or re-appointing any sales compliance and identify any potential agent and issues them with the Code, ensuring following the conclusion of the AGM 2016. succession issues.
that they understand, acknowledge and accept its requirements.
In 2013, the Board updated Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED the Code of Conduct and improved the guidance Section D: Remuneration The Company makes constructive use of it provided to the Groups operations, giving The Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 68 itsAGMs to communicate with its private detailed information on how they should conduct describes the Boards approach to remuneration shareholders.
A presentation on the Companys due diligence and risk assess sales agents.
The Directors Remuneration Policy annual performance was given following Afurther update will be issued during 2016. was approved by shareholders at the Companys completion of the formal business at the AGM AGM 2014 and became effective on 2015, and a copy of the presentation, together Managing gifts and hospitality 25 April 2014. with other investor relations material, is The Board recognises that gifts and hospitality available on the Companys website.
have the potential to create a conflict of Section E: Relations with shareholders interest, or the perception of a conflict of The Company maintains regular contact with The total issued share capital of the Company interest.
As a result, there is a Group policy its institutional shareholders and continued to as at 3 March 2015 the date of the Notice of restricting the receiving and giving of gifts consult with its major shareholders during Meeting for the AGM 2015, was 418.1 million andhospitality from, and to, third parties.
Twice a year, the Group Chief Executive, ordinary shares of 10p each.
The total number Thispolicy requires that all gifts and hospitality Group Finance Director and Head of Investor of proxy votes received for the AGM 2015 must be recorded.
The Internal Audit function Relations and Leadership Development represented approximately 77.36% assesses compliance with the Groups gifts undertake a series of meetings with the 2014 71.70% of the issued share capital of and hospitality policy during audit visits.
Companys major shareholders, following the the Company.
All resolutions put to shareholders announcement of the full-year and interim at the AGM 2015 were passed on a poll.
Improvements for 2016 results, to discuss both the Boards strategic In 2016, a new Code of Conduct is to be Details of the electronic poll voting received by objectives and the detailed performance of the adopted and issued to the Groups operations, the Company for the AGM 2015 resolutions are business.
During 2015, the Companys set out in the table below.
The Board will Non-executive Chairman also attended the continue with the measures already full-year and interim results announcements made Details of the votes to be received by the established, to ensure that all employees and to analysts, in March and July respectively.
Company for the AGM 2016 resolutions will sales agents understand the Code of Conduct, bemade available on the Companys website as appropriate, and comply with them: it will No major shareholder requested a meeting following the close of the meeting.
continue to ensure that all ethical concerns with any of the Non-executive Directors during raised are thoroughly investigated.
The Senior Independent Director is will also give increased focus to this area, by also available to attend meetings with major Charles Berry strengthening internal audits on compliance shareholders upon request, so providing an Chairman with the Code, ensuring that the training and alternative channel of communication between 26 February 2016 awareness of employees is fully effective and the Company and its shareholders.
that the Code has been issued and acknowledged by all sales agents.
