104 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report Chairmans overview The Audit Committee is an essential part of the Groups governance framework.
It is responsible for ensuring the integrity of the financial reporting process and internal control environment, promoting continuous improvement in accounting and reporting practices, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors and managing the internal audit function.
Committees responsibilities The Committees detailed responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board and are available at www.
These responsibilities include the monitoring and reviewing of: the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: the Annual Report and Accounts, to assess whether, as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: the activities, findings and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems: the Groups relationship with the external auditors, including their fees and the provision of non-audit services: and the effectiveness of the external audit process, including consideration of the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor and assessment of their independence and objectivity.
During 2015 the Audit Committee discharged fully its responsibilities.
This report describes the key issues considered by the Committee during the year and the actions taken in each of its areas of responsibility.
Financial Reporting The following key matters were considered by the Committee during 2015 and in respect of the 2015 Financial Year: Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company for inclusion in the 2014 and 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and for inclusion in the 2015 Half Year Report.
Accounting issues, judgements and information to support the financial statements, including but not limited to going concern, revenue recognition, onerous contract provisions OCPs, impairments, tax provisions, discontinued operations and exceptionalitems.
Directors Report Audit Committee Report 105 Significant issues and key judgements The following key issues were considered by the Audit Committee in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015: Financial reporting control environment Nature of the issue In light of the significant provisions and impairments made in 2014 and 2015, the Audit Committee spent time considering the strength of the Groups internal control environment with particular regard to the Groups three lines of defence model.
Action taken Outcome With the support of the Audit Committee, management We are satisfied that key finance positions within the has made a number of key appointments to increase the Group have been strengthened through the recruitment capability and leadership within the Finance function.
of experienced and qualified individuals.
The Audit Committee has challenged management The Audit Committee has reviewed managements on the effectiveness of its second line of defence.
The assessment of its current financial control environment Audit Committee will continue to assess this through its with regard to its three lines of defence model.
monitoring of the 'financial control and financial systems Key improvements made include the strengthening of the failure' principal risk.
Serco Management System and associated assurance plans, and the Divisional Performance Reviews, which take place on a monthly basis and review the key financial and operational aspects of the business.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the plans to further improve the Groups second line of defence and are comfortable with the initial proposals.
The Audit Committee has promoted the strengthening of The internal audit plans and reports have been reviewed the in-house Internal Audit function, and in 2015 increased by the Audit Committee and it is comfortable with the its focus on the wider controls operating within the Group.
progress made to date, the issues raised and the actions taken by management on significant issues.
The Audit Committee has mandated a sign-off process The Audit Committee has reviewed the results of the annual to establish compliance with financial and non-financial sign-off process across the Group to assess whether any controls across the Group.
areas of financial control non-compliance present a critical, severe or significant risk to the Group.
The material controls associated with the Groups principal risks are reviewed by the Corporate Responsibility and The Audit Committee has reviewed internal audits testing Risk Committee CRRC, and the Compliance Assurance of the control environment, which includes financial and Programme is reviewed by the Board Oversight non-financial controls.
The Audit Committee focuses on the financial internal controls.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 106 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Business disposals Nature of the issue As a result of the Strategy Review undertaken by the Board, a number of businesses were considered for disposal during the year with full details provided in notes 4 and 9 to the financial statements.
The financial reporting for the business disposals required careful consideration to ensure that they are appropriately reflected in the financial statements.
Action taken Outcome The financial conclusions reached by management and the Following the Audit Committee review and discussion accounting treatment have been discussed and challenged, with the External Auditors, we are satisfied that it is with particular focus on the treatment of the majority of appropriate to treat the onshore private sector BPO the private sector BPO businesses as discontinued and business as discontinued operations in the current and the removal of the Leisure and Environmental Services prior year income statement.
We are also satisfied that, businesses from assets held for sale.
as a result of the decision not to sell the Leisure and Environmental Services businesses that it is correct that the private sector BPO operation should be the only business included in the balance sheet as assets held for sale as at 31December2015.
Onerous contract provisions Nature of the issue As part of the Strategy Review in 2014, material onerous contract provisions OCPs were established.
The Audit Committee has focused on changes to those provisions as well as additional OCPs made in 2015, to understand and challenge as appropriate the significant assumptions, judgements, estimates and conclusions made by management during its review of contracts at the end of 2015.
Action taken Outcome Management presented to the Audit Committee their We satisfied ourselves that the overall level of provisions is basis and process of assessing the level of provisions appropriate when taking account of the range of possible required.
Our review of this process covered all major outcomes particularly on complex, long-term contracts.
OCPs created as part of the Contract and Balance Sheet The judgement made in regard to the Armidale Class Patrol Review in 2014, together with any new contract provisions Boat ACPB contract to release a significant portion of the identified in the current year.
The Committee also OCPs, following the contract modifications agreed between reviewed the levels of provisioning required particularly the Company and the customer, was considered, and it was for long-term and or complex contracts, and discussed concluded that the provision release was appropriate.
these with the External Auditors.
As part of our review of the significant OCPs, we challenged The Committee concluded that the assumptions and management on how the assessment process reflected judgements made by management in the calculation other key judgements being made in respect of asset of OCPs are consistent with those used in the models impairments, deferred tax asset recognition and future prepared by management for forecasting future profitability liquidity and viability.
Directors Report Audit Committee Report 107 Use of alternative performance measures Nature of the issue The Groups key performance indicators include measures which are not defined or specified in International Financial Reporting Standards.
During the year, a new measure was introduced, being Underlying Trading Profit, which is used by the Board of Directors to review current performance against the prior year by removing the impact of adjustments to OCPs, charges and releases made in respect of other items identified during the 2014 Contract and Balance Sheet Review, and other significant non trading items.
Action taken Outcome An assessment was made of the performance measures We concluded that the performance measures are in light of whether they provide meaningful insight to the appropriate as they are those which are being used by users of the Annual Report and Accounts.
management in the assessment of the performance of the business and that sufficient information has been provided to shareholders on the changes made in the year.
The new measure of Underlying Trading Profit was We consider the measure of Underlying Trading Profit to be considered for relevance to the performance of the a reasonable basis for the comparison of the performance business through review of the Groups management of the business.
accounts and discussions with management.
We have reviewed the treatment of items considered The Audit Committee is satisfied with the appropriateness as being exceptional and therefore requiring separate of items treated as exceptional.
We consider it appropriate disclosure.
Management prepared supporting for restructuring costs connected to the Strategy Review documentation for exceptional items to support their to be treated as exceptional in the current year, as they treatment in the Financial Statements, which was reviewed represent a continuation of the ongoing major restructuring and challenged by us in light of the guidance issued by the programme that commenced in 2013.
Financial Reporting Council in December 2013.
The disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts It was concluded that clear and meaningful descriptions were reviewed to ensure that the measures provide have been given for the alternative performance measures, transparency to the performance of the Group, appropriate and that statutory measures have been disclosed in prominence is given to statutory measures and clear sufficient detail to enable the users of the Annual Report reconciliations to statutory measures are provided.
and Accounts to make informed decisions.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 108 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Goodwill impairment Nature of the issue In the year ended 31 December 2014 the goodwill balances associated with three of the Groups cash generating units CGUs were impaired, and the low levels of headroom for the Health, Direct Services and Americas CGUs meant that a deterioration in performance for these businesses during the course of 2015 could result in further impairments.
In the year ended 31 December 2015 such a deterioration was noted in the Americas CGU, which resulted in a further impairment of 87.5m.
Details of the Groups goodwill balances is provided in note 20 to the financial statements, and details of the judgements applied can be found in note 3 to the financial statements.
Core to the assessment of the value of the goodwill is managements estimate of the future cash flows associated with them, which is dependent on circumstances both within and outside of their control, and discount rates that are adjusted to reflect risks specific to individual assets.
Action taken Outcome The methodology and results of the impairment testing We are satisfied that the assumptions underlying the were presented to the Audit Committee and were subject impairments made in the year are appropriate.
In particular, to scrutiny and review.
The Committee placed particular the cash flow forecasts used include assumptions consistent focus on changes in discount rates applied and ensuring with the reported contract attrition rates in the Americas.
that the underlying cash flows are consistent with the The underlying cash flow forecasts used for the assessment Board-approved forecasts.
of goodwill impairment are also consistent with those used for the Groups going concern and viability assessment and the assessment of recoverability of deferred tax assets.
The disclosures made in the financial statements have been The Audit Committee concluded that the disclosures reviewed to ensure that they provide an appropriate level of provided in the financial statements are transparent, information to its users.
appropriate, and in compliance with financial reporting requirements.
Directors Report Audit Committee Report 109 Tax exposures Nature of the issue The Group has historically been exposed to a number of claims raised by tax authorities in the normal course of business, generally in territories outside of the UK.
The majority of these claims have arisen in India in respect of the offshore private sector BPO business, the majority of which was sold in December 2015.
Where the likelihood of our position being challenged is more probable than not, the Group provides for the liability, including interest and penalties.
Where the probability is assessed as less likely than not, the Group does not provide for any of the liability and discloses material individual items as contingent liabilities unless their likelihood is assessed as there being no present or possible obligation to pay tax or if there is, it is remote.
As part of the agreement to dispose of the offshore private sector BPO business in December 2015, the Group offered a limited tax indemnity to the purchaser for general tax exposures that relate to historic tax claims.
Accordingly, the Group continues to provide for the exposures that may arise under this limited indemnity.
In addition, the Group provides a further indemnity in respect of withholding tax arising on an acquisition in India in 2011.
Tax and interest thereon has been disclosed as a contingent liability and penalties have been considered as remote.
Further details are provided in note 32 to the Groups financial statements.
Action taken Outcome We reviewed the summary documentation prepared by The documentation has been discussed, and challenged management supporting the tax provisions made and that by the Committee.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that for significant claims not provided for.
the conclusions reached are appropriate.
In particular, the Committee considered that the withholding tax exposure arising on the acquisition in India in 2011 is appropriately disclosed in note 32 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the general tax We are satisfied that managements assessment of the likely indemnity provided on the disposal of the majority of the outflows resulting from the indemnities is reasonable and offshore private sector BPO business, and the accounting consistent with historic treatment of the positions.
Deferred tax reporting Nature of the issue The Group recognises deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences in relation to fixed assets and carried forward losses.
At 31 December 2015 total deferred tax assets were 42.2m 2014: 37.4m.
Recognising such assets requires an assessment of their likely recovery, which relies on judgement by management of the taxable profits expected to be made in each of the relevant jurisdictions in future years.
Action taken Outcome The Audit Committee considered whether it is appropriate The Audit Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate to to recognise the full value of the deferred tax asset at the recognise the deferred tax assets as shown in the Groups year end and whether the recovery of the associated tax balance sheet.
We reviewed relevant management Contingent deferred tax assets of 195m are appropriately documentation in support of the conclusions reached, not recognised on the balance sheet gross 1.05bn.
including the forecast financial information, challenged the assumptions underpinning the calculations and discussed Deferred tax assets of 42.2m have been recognised in the the conclusions with management.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 110 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Going concern and viability statement Nature of the issue Consideration of the going concern risk is a fundamental responsibility of the Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee supported the Board in considering this matter.
The going concern assertion has a significant impact on the financial statements in terms of both the valuation and presentation of assets and liabilities.
Further details of the Directors assessment of going concern is provided on page 102.
In addition to considering going concern, the Audit Committee has given due consideration to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the associated viability statement, which is on page 30.
Action taken Outcome The Audit Committee has challenged the going We consider the going concern review to have been concern assessment prepared by management and rigorous and are satisfied that the conclusions reached their identification of material uncertainties, and are appropriate.
discussed its findings with the External Auditor.
Consideration was given by the Audit Committee to the As the going concern review has been prepared for 16 period of review for going concern, which is expected to months to June 2017, we have concluded that the period be a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval covered by the review is appropriate.
of the relevant financial statements.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and considered the The assessment performed enabled the Board of Directors work performed on assessing the viability of the Group to produce the viability statement that is set out on and the period of assessment, after taking account of the page 30.
The Committee concluded that an appropriate Groups current position, budget and forecasting periods approach has been taken in: and its principal risks.
i. I dentifying the principal risks which could impact on future viability: ii.
Preparing the forecasts supporting the viability statement, the basis of which is set on page 30: and iii.
Sensitising these financial forecasts against the principal risks.
The Audit Committee has given consideration to the The Audit Committee considers the three-year period period of assessment under the viability statement, under which the viability statement has been prepared to which is expected to be a period that significantly be appropriate and concurs with the reasoning provided exceeds 12 months.
within the statement on page 30.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the going concern We are satisfied that pages 30, 102 and 164 of the Annual and viability statement disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts include detailed disclosures Report and Accounts.
This review has taken into account regarding going concern and the viability statement.
the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Directors Report Audit Committee Report 111 Defined benefit pension schemes Nature of issue The Group is responsible for paying contributions into a number of defined benefit pension schemes directly linked to contracts in addition to the main Company scheme, Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS, and several other small noncontract specific schemes.
SPLAS has a significant pension asset at the end of the year of 127.1m 2014: 143.9m and the other contract specific schemes have a combined pension liability of 11.5m 2014: 17.4m.
The value of the individual schemes fluctuates due to changes in underlying assumptions, which include the forecast bond yield rates and the forecast inflation rate.
Further details of the pension arrangements can be found in note 34 to the Groups financial statements.
Action taken Outcome We considered both the process management undertook We concluded that the process followed was appropriate to finalise the assumptions for the main schemes, and and the resulting calculation appropriately balanced.
how these assumptions benchmark against the market.
Advice was taken from independent actuaries on the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
Internal audit The Audit Committees responsibilities in respect of internal audit are to: exercise oversight over the internal audit function: review and approve the internal audit programme: and review reports issued, and monitor managements actions to respond to findings and recommendations.
During the year the committee discussed: the implementation of the 2015 internal audit programme, changes to the 2015 programme particularly in light of the ongoing restructuring project and disposal of the offshore private sector BPO business, and the proposed 2016 internal audit programme, which were approved by the Committee: the effectiveness of the internal audit function: and during the year, an external effectiveness review was carried out by a third party which included reviewing and assessing how internal audit is positioned within the organisation, the effectiveness of the function, including the internal audit team and its processes: how it benchmarked against best practice: and compliance with the Institute of Internal Auditors Standards.
This was reviewed in detail by the Committee.
The effectiveness review found that overall the internal audit function provides a good internal audit service and identified opportunities for further improvement which will be used in determining the strategy for the function.
Internal control and risk management Information in relation to internal controls and risk management can be found in the accountability section of the Corporate Governance report on pages 97 to 102.
External auditors During the year the committee considered the following matters: the annual audit plan of the external auditors and the 2015 external audit fees: pre-approving any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and ensuring that the provision of non-audit services did not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity: and the continuing independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 112 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued External audit The Audit Committee has responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
Deloitte LLP was re-appointed as auditor of the Group at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2015.
During the year, the Committee received and reviewed audit plans and reports from the external auditor.
The external auditors also met privately with the Audit Committee without any member of management or the Executive Directors being present, and with the Chairman of the Audit Committee in between Audit Committee meetings.
Non-audit services The Committee has reconfirmed its policy on the provision of audit and non-audit services by Deloitte LLP.
It determined three categories of services: Approved e. g. audit and related assurance services, Permitted e. g. tax compliance and due diligence and Not Permitted e. g. design implementation of financial information systems and quasi management services.
The Committee, the Company and Deloitte LLP all monitor compliance with the policy and review at each meeting the fees earned and the estimates for the year.
The Committee acknowledges that the Groups external auditors will have a significant understanding of the Groups business and this knowledge and experience can be utilised to the Groups advantage in many areas, thus ensuring efficiency in costs to the Group.
They also operate to professional codes of conduct including the management of conflicts of interest.
Accordingly, it considers that the external auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services: assistance in tax compliance activities including the preparation of tax returns : tax advisory services: accountants reports for any Stock Exchange purposes: ad hoc reporting on historic financial information for any other purpose and ad hoc accounting advisory services: due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions or disposals of businesses: other corporate finance advisory services required in support of potential transactions or bids, including the review of financial models for internal consistency and compliance with Group financial accounting policies: and any other services which are not prohibited and are authorised by the Group Chief Financial Officer or Group Company Secretary.
Where such services are considered to be recurring in nature, approval of the Committee may be sought for the full financial year at the beginning of that year.
Approval for other permitted non-audit services has to be sought on an ad hoc basis: where no Audit Committee meeting is scheduled within an appropriate time frame, approval is to be sought from the Chairman of the Committee or his nominated alternate.
The Committee may establish fee thresholds for pre-approved services and similar approvals are required for work awarded to accounting firms other than the Companys auditor, where fees are expected to exceed pre-approved limits.
The Group Company Secretary is nominated by the Audit Committee as the point of review and approval for the engagement of non-audit services.
The Committee is currently targeting a cap on fees permitted for non-audit services of 70% of audit fees.
In 2015 the non-audit fees paid to Deloitte totalled 3.0m 2014: 0.8m and were 200% 2014: 38% of the 2015 audit fee.
The majority of non-audit fees in 2015 were incurred in respect of the Rights Issue, which completed in April 2015 and including work on the profit forecast, the working capital statement and a report on pro forma financial information.
Excluding those fees, the non-audit fee was 33% of the 2015 audit fee.
The Group has complied with the policy throughout the year.
Where appropriate, non-audit services have been provided by companies other than Deloitte LLP to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP for audit, audit-related and non-audit services for 2015 can be found in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The principal areas of engagement of Deloitte LLP for audit-related and non-audit services were commissioned in full compliance with the above policy.
The services principally related to the Rights Issue, taxation advice, audit related assurance services and due diligence and other corporate finance advisory services.
In awarding this non-audit work to Deloitte, the Audit Committee took account of Deloittes knowledge of the Group and considered it able to provide an effective and cost efficient service.
Effectiveness of external auditors The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process during the year under review.
An assessment of the process was undertaken by the Committee with input received from management associated with the audits undertaken Group Finance and divisional Finance Directors.
The assessment covered all aspects of the audit service provided by the audit firm.
The Committee also obtained a report on the audit firms own internal quality control procedures and consideration of audit firms annual transparency reports.
Directors Report Audit Committee Report 113 The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected to review the audit of the 31 December 2014 Serco Group plc financial statements as part of their 2015 annual inspection of audit firms.
The focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected level.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I received a full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and discussed these with the Audit Committee and Deloitte.
The Audit Committee confirmed that there were no significant areas for improvement identified within the report.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied that there is nothing within the report which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
Audit tendering The Audit Committee has noted the Competition & Markets Authoritys final Order on mandatory tendering and audit committee responsibilities for FTSE 350 companies the Order as well as the BIS and FRC consultations on options for UK implementation of the EU Audit Directive the Consultation.
The Order applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and is therefore applicable to the year under review.
The Committee notes that the Order requires mandatory tendering every ten years in line with EU Regulation.
As a result of Deloitte LLP being the Companys auditor for in excess of 20 years, the transitional arrangements require that the Company must undertake a competitive tender process in respect of the external auditor appointment made on or after 17 June 2020.
However, the independence and effectiveness of the External Auditor is considered annually by the Audit Committee and the assessment of the need to tender the audit is also kept under consideration by the Audit Committee, therefore it is possible that a tender process may take place before the required deadline.
Auditor independence The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors have been examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding their terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is Andrew Kelly, who was appointed to the role in respect of the audit for the year under review.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of external auditor.
Following an assessment of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming 2016 Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation has been accepted by the Board and will be proposed to shareholders.
Membership and meetings The members of the Audit Committee are myself Chair, Mike Clasper and Rachel Lomax.
All members are Non-Executive Directors who are regarded as being independent and have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, the Group Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller are invited to attend all Audit Committee Meetings.
The Group Head of Internal Audit, KPMG LLP the Groups co-sourced internal audit provider, the Senior Statutory Auditor for Deloitte LLP, and other members of the management team are also invited as required.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on how the Committee had discharged its responsibilities.
The Group Head of Internal Audit, who functionally reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit Committee without any members of management present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also meets and holds discussions with the Group Head of Internal Audit between Audit Committee meetings.
The Committees Terms of Reference provide that it will meet at least three times each year and in practice, the Committee meets at least four times each year to coincide with the key reporting cycle.
The Committee held eight meetings during the 2015 financial year.
Four meetings were called specifically to consider matters and announcements relating to the Strategic Review as more fully set out in the Strategic Report and the 2015 Rights Issue, whist these matters were also on the agenda of certain of the meetings held within our normal reporting cycle.
The minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Malcolm Wyman Chair of the Audit Committee 25 February 2016 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report
