116 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee Report Annual statement by the Chair of the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee 2015 has been another busy year for the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee.
There has been good progress in all areas, with particular focus on risk management.
The Committee has had detailed discussions with divisional CEOs and risk and compliance teams to review the management of ethics: compliance: health, safety and the environment: risk management and assurance: and current business and other risks across the Group.
The Board has recently considered the responsibilities of each of the Board Committees, in particular focussing on the responsibilities of this Committee and the Board Oversight Committee.
As set out in the Chairmans Governance Overview on page 86, the responsibility of this Committee will change in 2016 and it will become the Risk Committee.
This will ensure greater oversight of risk management across the Group as we look to further strengthen the Group's capabilities and processes in this area.
The other responsibilities of the Committee will be moved to either the Board or the Board Oversight Committee as set out elsewhere in this Annual Report.
This change is due to take effect after the AGM in May 2016.
Set out below is a summary of the Committees current responsibilities together with a summary of the key activities carried out in the year.
Committees responsibilities The terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
The principal areas of responsibility are as follows: overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework including the principal risks facing the Group and the actions being taken by management to mitigate those risks: overseeing the Groups approach to health, safety and the environment: overseeing the Groups contribution to the communities in which its people live and work: and overseeing the impact on the environment in which the Group operates.
Principal activities during the year During the year under review, the principal activities of the Committee were as follows: reviewing of the Group Risk Register: receiving presentations from four of the five divisions to get greater insight into their management of ethics, compliance and risk management and assurance and to get a deeper understanding of current business and ethical risks: carrying out a detailed review of certain principal risks facing the Group, including cyber security, contract non-compliance and the management of brand integrity and reputation: reviewing quarterly health, safety and environment reports: reviewing and agreeing the 20162018 health, safety and environment strategy: and receiving reports on whistleblowing.
Directors Report Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee Report 117 Governance in Action Yarls Wood investigation For a number of years the work of Yarls Wood Immigration Removal Centre has been the subject of intense scrutiny and criticism.
In March 2015 a report by Channel 4 News included undercover recording of Serco staff at the Centre making unacceptable and derogatory comments.
It is vital that the operation of such a sensitive part of the UK's immigration system has the confidence of the public and policy makers.
It is also important for Serco and its staff that significant problems, if they exist, are recognised and promptly put right.
Accordingly Serco asked Kate Lampard CBE to undertake an independent and comprehensive investigation into the culture at Yarls Wood, and how the culture and management of the centre affect the well being of residents.
As Chair of the CRRC, I oversaw the investigation, including setting up and agreeing the terms of reference, holding regular meetings with Kate and her team, and keeping the rest of the Board informed of progress.
The report of the independent investigation was published in January 2016.
It highlighted the challenges of operating the facility and concluded that there was not an abusive culture at Yarls Wood.
However it did identify deficiencies in staffing levels and training that needed to be addressed, and made a number of recommendations for improving the well being of residents, nearly all of which Serco has already accepted or implemented.
A copy of the full report and Serco's response to each of its recommendations is available on www.
Membership and meetings The Committee currently comprises myself as Chair, Mike Clasper, Tamara Ingram, Sir Roy Gardner and Rupert Soames.
The majority of members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met four times in 2015.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Rachel Lomax Chair of the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee 25 February 2016 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report
