114 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee Report Annual statement by the Chair of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee was engaged in the early part of 2015 in managing the appointment of a new Chairman to replace Alastair Lyons.
That process was run by Mike Clasper as Senior Independent Director.
The process was an extremely thorough one which followed best practice.
The Committee agreed the candidate specification and appointed Zygos Partnership, an external executive search consultancy which is not connected with the Company in any way to assist with the search for a new Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director discussed the specification with key shareholders, prepared an induction schedule and led the Committee in the appraisal of candidates.
The Committee discussed and agreed remuneration following discussion at the Remuneration Committee and recommended the final candidate to the Board leading to the Board approving my appointment.
As part of the recruitment process I met with other members of the Board before I was pleased to be appointed in the summer of 2015.
In August, the Board received a detailed update on diversity and inclusion.
It is clear that a lot of work is being done to improve all areas of diversity.
In the Groups employee engagement survey, diversity and inclusion was rated as one of the Groups current global engagement strengths so we continue our efforts to develop in this area from a strong platform.
There are a number of different plans that are being progressed across the Group and these are reported on in different sections of this Annual Report.
In 2016, the Committee will keep these under review and will monitor progress both through the employee engagement survey and through general benchmarking that is relevant to the sectors we operate in.
Following the completion of my induction programme I will look to carry out a Board evaluation exercise to determine the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and to also ensure that the skills are in place to enable the Group to successfully deliver its strategy and to ensure that the succession plans that are in place also meet the requirements of the Group as we progress through our strategy.
The Nomination Committee will be responsible for implementing and monitoring any actions that result from these exercises and I will report back to you in next years Annual Report on the progress that is made during the year.
Committees responsibilities The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
The principal areas of responsibility are as follows: reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board: recommending membership of Board Committees: undertaking succession planning for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer and other Directors: searching for candidates for the Board, and recommending Directors for appointment: determining the independence of Directors: assessing whether Directors are able to commit enough time to discharge their responsibilities: reviewing induction and training needs of Directors: and recommending the process and criteria for assessing the effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees and the contribution of the Chairman and individual Directors to the effectiveness of the Board and helping to implement these assessments.
Process for Board appointments Before making any appointment to the Board, the Nomination Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the experience and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee will also make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of any Director or the Company Secretary and give full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the necessary skills and expertise required on the Board.
Where external recruitment is appropriate, or to benchmark a suitable internal candidate, the Committee will engage the services of an independent search consultant.
Specifications are drawn up for the roles, which include the personal attributes and experience that are felt to be essential for the effective performance of any new appointment.
For the appointment of NonExecutive Directors and Chairman, consideration is also given to the time commitment that is required for a Director to fulfil the obligations to the Company.
The Board strongly supports the principle of diversity and recognises the benefits that diversity can have across all areas of the Group believing this adds to Sercos continued success and advantage.
The Board will always seek to appoint on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
When considering the optimum composition of the Board, the benefits of diversity of the Board are appropriately reviewed and balanced where possible, including in terms of differences of skills, industry experience, approach, gender, race, age, nationality, background and other contributions that individuals may bring.
Directors Report Nomination Committee Report 115 Governance in action During the year Liz Benison, CEO of the UK and Europe Local and Regional Government Division and a member of the Executive Committee, established an Inspiring Women in Serco network, which aims to support the progression of our female employees into senior roles and to promote Serco as being a good place for women to work.
The network, which is entirely self-selecting, has only been up and running for six months and already has over 200 active members who have been organised into seven regional groups.
Each group was asked to identify various initiatives which drive the four overarching objectives: how the network can give benefit back to Serco: how it can advance individual development: how it can support social responsibility and how it can promote a positive image of public sector outsourcing in the market.
The progress made is reviewed at quarterly steering committee meetings which are attended by the leads for each region as well as Liz Benison.
The network started in the UK and is growing with members now including overseas employees and employees in joint ventures.
The network is fully endorsed by the Board, and both Angie Risley and Rupert Soames have been invited to speak at meetings, which are attended by a large number of employees and the recordings have also been made available afterwards.
I look forward to following the network as it goes from strength to strength in 2016.
Membership and meetings I chair the Nomination Committee and the other members are Mike Clasper, the Senior Independent Director, Angie Risley, Malcolm Wyman and Rupert Soames, the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The majority of members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met six times in 2015.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Sir Roy Gardner Chair of the Nomination Committee 25 February 2016 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report
