STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Following the appointment of a Director, a full SUCCESSION PLANNING and comprehensive induction programme is In 2015 the Committee increased its focus provided by the Company.
Within the induction onthe potential of internal employees and process, areas such as financial forecasts, succession planning within the Group.
The Group strategy and philosophy are explained, Head of Leadership Development is currently together with other relevant topics.
Visits to the conducting a review of senior executive Groups operations are also undertaken: this succession planning, containing details of involves the new Director meeting local proposed talent development, the methods management teams and learning about the foridentifying and developing potential internal keyissues faced by each operation.
candidates, ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of internal and external The Nominations Committee and the Board recruitment for the most senior positions.
The has regard to Lord Davies review into Women Committee also spends time discussing the on Boards February 2011.
The Board is issue of succession planning for the various dedicated to promoting diversity and equality of Board level roles.
all kinds throughout the Group, regardless of geography or position.
The Committee regularly NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHANGES discusses the benefits of diversification with Following the conclusion of the AGM to be regard to the Board and its Committees.
held on 22 April 2016, Andy Hamment is OVERVIEW toretire as a Non-executive Director of the In 2015, the Nominations Committee sought The Nominations Committee is chaired by Company and Senior Independent Director: myself, and comprised of all Non-executive tobring additional skills and experience to Mark E. Vernon will become the Senior theBoard through the recruitment of a new Directors.
The Group Company Secretary acts Independent Director on that date.
as Secretary to the Committee.
Senior Non-executive Director or Directors.
By the endof 2015, Susan Brennan had accepted the managers and advisers are invited to attend INDEPENDENCE ameeting when deemed appropriate.
There position of Non-executive Director and her The Nominations Committee and the Board still appointment to the Board became effective were three scheduled meetings of the consider all of the Non-executive Directors to Committee in 2015.
Two members constitute on1 January 2016. be fully independent and free from conflicting aquorum for the Nominations Committee.
interests which may cause difficulties whilst APPOINTMENT OF NON-EXECUTIVE There was full attendance at each of the three carrying out their duties.
Senior considers the DIRECTOR meetings of the Nominations Committee held current Non-executive Directors to be proactive in 2015.
All of the Committees attendance In recruiting the new Non-executive Director, in contributing their respective experiences and records are shown on page 38. the Committee was keen to ensure that the skills gained from various industries.
chosen candidate would have the right The Committee is tasked with administering Conflicts of interests are fully disclosed by personality to fit the Groups culture and the the process for appointments, debating Directors upon appointment and are reviewed necessary skills and experience to deliver succession planning, regularly reviewing such on an annual basis.
continued strong results, both financially and processes and overseeing the composition of operationally, in order to develop and oversee Following the changes made in 2015, I am the Board.
The Nominations Committees full the future progression of the Group.
A confident that we have the desired diversity Terms of Reference can be found on the comprehensive recruitment process was ofskills, people, experience and a positive Companys website.
undertaken with the support of Korn Ferry.
attitude that will guide us in delivering The Nominations Committee enlists external shareholder value and forging a positive The Committee, after taking into account all consultancy firms to assist in the appointment direction for the year ahead.
relevant factors, recommended to the Board of Directors to the Board.
The Company that Susan Brennan be appointed a NonThis Report was reviewed and approved by provides the appointed consultancy firm with executive Director of the Company.
theNominations Committee and signed arole description, together with the required onitsbehalf by: skills and personal attributes to be considered.
The Board agreed the Committees The consultancy firm then filters a list of recommendation and Susan Brennan accepted candidates down to a number of those that the appointment in December 2015, Charles Berry itfeels meet the skills and attributes required.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee The consultancy firm then conducts preliminary 26 February 2016 interviews with the selected candidates, then referring them to Senior for interview, together with a written analysis on each candidate.
Candidates are subsequently interviewed by anumber of members of the Board, with the final recruitment decision being taken by the Board as a whole.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47
