Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 7.
Philip Remnant CBE ACA MA 60 Q O x Chief Executive officer Independent Non-executive director Appointed to the board on 11 April 2014 Appointed to the board on 31 March 2014 Olivia Liv brings to the board a wealth of experience managing Chairman of the Remuneration Committee customer service delivery and complex infrastructure and Philip is a senior investment banker and brings substantial organisations in a regulated environment.
Before joining Severn advisory and regulatory experience to the board.
A chartered Trent, she was Chief Executive officer of Openreach, part of the accountant, he is Senior Independent Director of Prudential Plc, BT Group, where she spearheaded and oversaw the commercial Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel, Senior Independent rollout of bre broadband to two-thirds of the country.
Shejoined Director of UK Financial Investments Limited and Chairman BT in 2002 and held the pivotal roles of Group Director of of City of London Investment Trust plc.
Previously, Philip was Strategy and Regulation, Managing Director Commercial and Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Europe and Head Brands, Global Services and UK Customer Services Director.
of the UK Investment Banking Department.
Philip was Director From 1998 to 2002, Liv worked for Accenture as a consultant General of the Takeover Panel for two years between 2001 and in the Communications and High Tech Market Unit, designing 2003, and again in 2010.
Previously he served on the board of and implementing business change solutions across a number Northern Rock plc and from 2007 to 2012 was Chairman of the of industry sectors.
On 28 February 2015, Liv retired from the Shareholder Executive.
board of Tesco Plc as non-executive director.
In October 2014, External appointments Liv stepped down as a member of the Nominations Committee Senior Independent Director and member of the Audit, ofSevern Trent.
Nominations and Remuneration Committees of Prudential Plc Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel 6.
Dr Angela Strank BSc PhD 62 V O Non-executive director of UK Financial Investments Limited Independent Non-executive director Non-executive Chairman of City of London Investment Trust plc Appointed to the board on 24 January 2014 Governor of Goodenough College Angela brings a wealth of strategic, technical and commercial Trustee of St Pauls Cathedral Foundation experience to the board.
Angela is Head of Technology, Downstream at BP Group, effective 1 June 2015.
She has held various other senior leadership roles Independent Non-executive director at BP since joining in 1982, most recently including Vice President Appointed to the board on 1 July 2009 and Head of the Chief Executives Ofce.
In 2010 Angela was the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee winner of the UK First Womans Award in Science and Technology Gordon has extensive experience working in and with international in recognition of pioneering UK women in business and industry.
businesses, managing significant capital expenditure.
His inHer track record and experience in strategy, operations, depth retail expertise at both executive and operational level technology and transformational change area complementary in a customer facing, highly competitive environment enables addition to the boards skill set.
him to bring substantial experience and expertise to the board External appointments and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Gordon held Board of Governors of the University of Manchester the position of Group Property Director at Tesco Plc until his University College London, Energy Institute retirement in November 2013.
He previously held a number of International Advisory Board senior roles within the Tesco Group, including Operations Director, International Support Director and CEO Republic of Ireland.
External appointments A lumnus of INSEAD Non-executive director of W & J Linney Limited Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50 Executive Committee 1.
The Chief Executive officer during the year under review Finally, Helen Miles has been appointed as Group Commercial Director and holds responsibility for Procurement, Transport, was Liv Gareld who succeeded Tony Wray on 11 April 2014.
Michael McKeon stepped down as Chief Financial officer of Severn Supply Chain and Contract Management.
Helen was previously CFO of UK HomeServe and CFO of Openreach.
We are excited Trent Plc on 1 April 2015 and was replaced by James Bowling with effect from the same date.
Michael has committed to provide about the energy, intellect, drive and commercial intuition that Helen brings to the new team.
support to the company until the end of May 2015 to assist James and Liv in the implementation of strategic projects.
A new Business Services team is led by Andy Smith, who will Members of the Executive Committee oversee the development manage the non-regulated parts of our business and growth in a and execution of the Severn Trent strategy and have accountability competitive world.
These changes build on strong foundations and for achieving business results.
They are delegated responsibility will enable the business to become more operationally effective, to sit on steering groups that oversee the delivery of our strategy more competitive in non-regulated retail markets, more customer and business management.
During the year, steering groups were focused, deliver further shareholder value and deliver a great set up to oversee areas such as the submission of our PR14 plan service for our customers.
to Ofwat, Digital Strategy, Customer Experience Programme and The terms of reference of the Executive Committee are available on the integrated delivery of our year end results and Ofwat Annual the companys website www.
com or from the Company Regulatory Returns.
The details of the roles is detailed within the Charter of During the year, to ensure we are best placed to deliver for Expectations which is also available on the companys website.
our customers, shareholders and our people through our five 1.
Dr Tony Ballance BSc Hons MA Econ PhD 50 year business plan, we announced a number of changes to the composition of the Executive Committee.
The new executive team Director, Strategy and Regulation will allow us to ensure we continue to put the customer at the Tonys extensive experience in utility policy and regulation leaves heart of what we do, investing responsibly for sustainable growth, him ideally placed to lead the companys strategic and regulatory whilst driving operational excellence and continuous innovation.
Prior to joining Severn Trent he held the posts of Chief Economist for Ofwat, director of London Economics and director As a result of these changes, a new Wholesale Operations ofStone and Webster Consultants.
function, combining the formerly separate water and waste teams has been established and, as announced on 13 April 2015, will be External appointments led by Emma FitzGerald.
Member of Water UK Council A new Chief Engineering function has been established, led by 2.
Sarah Bentley BSc Hons 43 Martin Kane, previously CEO of Severn Trent Services.
The new Chief Customer officer team encompasses engineering design standards, quality Sarah joined Severn Trent in December 2014 as the Chief Customer assurance, R&D and innovation for the group and all health and Officer, responsible for Household Customers, Group IS and Group safety aspects of operations.
She previously worked for Accenture as Managing In addition, two new Executive Committee roles have been Director of their 3 billion global digital business focused on Digital established.
The first is that of the Chief Customer Officer, which Marketing, Mobility and Analytics for customers, employees and incorporates Customer Care, Transformation and Information the enterprise.
Prior to Accenture, Sarah was CEO of Datapoint, Services, ensuring we deliver even better customer service whilst an Alchemy backed company delivering CRM services, and bringing our digital strategy to life.
Sarah Bentley has joined us from Senior Vice President of eLoyalty, a global CRM and Marketing Accenture, where she held the position of Managing Director of consultancy.
She was SVP of the European Business, led the sales their digital business.
Sarah brings a wealth of experience of digital and operations activity in North America and ran eLoyalty Ventures transformation and extensive contact centre experience as CEO of L. L. C. working in Silicon Valley, Austin and New York.
Datapoint and Senior Vice President of eLoyalty.
