Nominations Committee Report well as diversity including gender, were fully considered in relation to the Board appointments made during the year.
The Committee retains external search and selection consultants as appropriate.
The Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Board appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
All appointments to the Board will continue to be made on merit, however differences in background, skills, experience and other qualities as well as gender are considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board, with the aim to balance them appropriately.
BOARD SUCCESSION PLANNING PURPOSE AND AIM in accordance with best practice and The Financial The Nominations Committee has an important role to Reporting Councils FRC discussion paper entitled UK play in ensuring that the Board has the right balance of Board Succession Planning, the Committee continues experience and skills to support the Groups strategy.
its to review and monitor its Board succession planning principal duty is the nomination ofsuitable candidates process, in particular by rigorously reviewing and for the approval of the Board to fill Executive and Nontaking into account the need for progressive refreshing Executive vacancies on the Board.
Members of the of the Board.
The Committee carefully reviews and Committee are not involved inmatters affecting their own makes recommendations to the Board concerning the positions.
re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified terms of office.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain The Committee considered the positions of Mr C. V. the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience Geoghegan and Mr J. C. Nicholls, both of whom and independence to ensure their continued effectiveness.
completed their second three year periods of office Appropriate succession plans for the Non-Executive in July and November 2015 respectively, and both of Directors, Executive Directors and the Groups Senior whom were appointed to serve for a further term of office Management are also kept under review.
expiring at the May 2016 Annual General Meeting.
it was the Committees view that, noting the experience MEETINGS AND MEMBERSHIP and tenure of the Non-Executive Directors, together with During the year theCommittee met on four occasions.
A the Companys ongoing implementation of its strategic quorum is three members, the majority of whom shall be initiatives and the focus on achieving a strong recovery in independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee 2016, it would be in the best interests of the Companys operates under written Terms of Reference, which are Shareholders, subject to careful and rigorous review, consistent with current best practice and are available on for Mr Geoghegan and Mr Nicholls to offer themselves the Companys website www.
for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
in the Committees view, Mr Geoghegan and Mr Nicholls As at 31 December 2015, the Committee comprised the bring considerable management experience and an Chairman, the Chief Executive and the five independent independent perspective to the Boards discussions and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
are considered to be independent of management and free from relationship or circumstance that could affect Chairman of the Committee Members or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent Mr L. Van fide Walle Ms J. E. Ashdown, Mr M. Ewell, judgment, thereby providing continued valuable support.
Mr C. V. Geoghegan, Mr J. C. Nicholls, Ms A. Abt and Mr S. R. Mitchell Therefore, Mr Geoghegan and Mr Nicholls have, subject to their re-election by Shareholders at the Annual General RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES Meeting in May 2016, been invited to serve for a further DURING THE YEAR term of office expiring at the May 2017 Annual General The Committee reviews the structure, size, diversity and Meeting.
composition of the Board and makes recommendations concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive As part of the Board succession planning process, Director at the conclusion of their specified term of which was discussed at the Committees December office and in the identification and nomination of new 2015 meeting, a search and selection procedure Directors.
During the year, the Committee in recognising for independent Non-Executive Directors would be the impact of the Davies Report ensured that skills, undertaken prior to the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
experience, potential and overall balance of the Board, as www.
com Stock code: ShI 78 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE in June 2015, the Committee undertook a Talent & The Committee also carefully reviews and makes Succession Review which encompassed the Groups recommendations concerning the reappointment of any senior management.
This was undertaken in conjunction Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified with the Group Human Resources Director and was terms of office.
intended to support the Groups strategy and growth in December 2013, the Board had discussed the matter of plans.
The review covered: purpose and focus: bench women on boards, and had set out the aim of achieving strength and pipeline assessment: and workforce profile at least 25% female representation among the Boards assessment and actions.
This review forms part of the membership by 2015.
Following the appointment of Ms Committees annual agenda.
A. Abt on 12 March 2015, female representation on the Board has risen to 25%.
The Committee will continue to GENERAL consider gender diversity when recommending any future in general terms, when considering candidates Board appointments.
Final appointments will always be for appointment as Directors of the Company, the made on merit.
Nominations Committee, in conjunction with the Board, drafts a detailed job specification and candidate profile.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee reviews in drafting this, consideration would be given to the its own performance annually and considers where existing experience, knowledge and background of Board improvements can be made.
The Committee reviewed its members as well as the strategic and business objectives own performance in December 2015 and the results of of the Group.
this review were reported to the Board.
Once a detailed specification has been agreed with The proposed activities for the Committee in 2016 the Board, the Committee would then work with an will be to continue to monitor and assess the Boards appropriate external search and selection agency to composition and diversity, longer-term succession identify candidates of the appropriate calibre and with planning and potential further recruitment of Nonwhom an initial candidate shortlist could be agreed.
Executive Directors, in conjunction with The FRCs The consultants are required to work to a specification discussion paper on UK Board Succession Planning.
that includes the strong desirability of producing a full list of candidates who meet the essential criteria, whilst reflecting the benefits of diversity.
The Board will only engage such consultants who are signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on gender diversity on corporate boards.
The policy on Board Diversity is lESlIE VAN fide wAllE available on the Companys website www.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 8 March 2016 Shortlisted candidates would then be invited to interview with members of the Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, would be invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
During the year under review, in connection with the appointment of Ms A. Abt, the Committee used the services of Ridgeway Partners who have no other connection with the Company.
This process was followed in respect of the appointment of Ms Abt as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 12 March 2015.
Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is given.
Although not an exhaustive list, the induction includes one-to-one meetings with key management including HR, Finance, Risk, investor Relations and Corporate Development and an overview of the Groups structure and strategy including site visits and an overview of operations.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 79 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1
