Introduction to Governance Corporate Governance GOVERNANCE The Companys policy relating to the terms of LEADERSHIP appointment and remuneration of both the Executive the Board and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors At 31 December 2015, the Board was made up of eight Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 98. members comprising the Chairman, two Executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors are separate and clearly defined.
The division of who held office during the year were: responsibilities is set out in writing, reviewed by the Company Secretary and agreed by the Board on a regular basis.
The Board approves any necessary changes to Non-Executive Chairman MR l. VAN fide wAllE reflect changes in legislation, policy and practices.
The MR S. R. MITChEll Chief Executive Chairman leads the Board and sets its agenda, ensuring MR D. G. ROBERTSON Group Finance Director that all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to make an effective contribution.
He also independent Non-Executive Director MS A. ABT appointed 12 March 2015 ensures that there is a constructive relationship between independent Non-Executive Director the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief MS J. E. AShDOwN Executive has responsibility for all operational matters MR M. EwEll independent Non-Executive Director which include the implementation of the Groups Strategy Senior independent Non-Executive MR C. V. GEOGhEGAN and policies approved by the Board.
Director independent Non-Executive Director MR J. C. NIChOllS The roles for the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Senior independent Director are agreed and set out in writing: a summary of their roles and division of responsibility is set out below: Biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report appear on pages 56 and 57.
Details of chairman Committee memberships are set out on page 63.
Responsible for overall leadership and governance of the Board including induction, development and At 31 December 2015, SiG had two female Board performance evaluation : members, equating to 25% female representation of its Directors.
Ensures that the Directors have an understanding of the views of the Companys major shareholders: and The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of Ensures a healthy culture of challenge and debate at any relationship which could materially interfere with Board and Committee meetings.
the exercise oftheir independent judgment.
The Board The Chairman, at the time of his appointment, met and has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to continues to meet the independence criteria set out in the independence of those Directors who have other the Code.
The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors bring their chief executive own senior level of experience and expertise and that Responsible for the effective leadership of the the balance between Non-Executive and Executive Group: representation encourages healthy independent challenge to the Executive Directors and senior management.
Strong and focused management and development of the Groups operations: The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed for their specific areas of expertise and knowledge.
Their implementation of the Groups objectives and wide-ranging experience and backgrounds ensure that strategy as agreed by the Board: they can debate matters constructively in relation to both Maintains good relationships and communications the development of strategy and performance of SiG with investors: against objectives set out by the Board.
Biographical Works closely with the Group Finance Director to details of each of the Directors, which illustrate their range ensure appropriate financial controls are in place: of experience, are set out on pages 56 and 57. and Develops and implements policies integral to improving the business, including in relation to Health & Safety and Corporate Responsibility.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 59 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Governance CONTiNUED senior Independent director Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection Available for approach by or representations from at the Companys registered office and will be available at investors and Shareholders, where communications the AGM which is scheduled to take place on 12 May 2016. through the Chairman or Executive Directors may not seem appropriate: BOARD PROCEDURES AND A sounding board for the Chairman and an RESPONSIBILITIES intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as and on an adhoc basis as required by time-critical business Available to chair the Board in the absence of the needs.
The Board met formally on ten occasions during Chairman.
the year and individual attendance at those and the Board Committee meetings is set out in the table on page 62.
All The Senior independent Director is Mr C. V. Geoghegan.
Board members are supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge There is no maximum number of Directors but there shall their duties.
Board and Committee papers are sent out at no time be less than two.
Directors may be appointed seven days before meetings take place.
The Directors by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
are provided with opportunities for training to ensure that A Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and until the next Annual General Meeting AGM and shall regulation changes, corporate governance developments then be eligible for re-appointment by the Shareholders.
There is an agreed The Board may, from time to time, appoint one or more schedule of matters reserved for the Board for collective Directors as Managing Director or to fulfil any other decision which can be viewed on the Companys website, executive function within the Company for such term, www.
These matters include: remuneration and other conditions of appointment as it may determine, and it may revoke such appointment Determining the strategy and control of the Group: subject to the provisions of the Companies Act.
Amendments to the structure and capital of the Company and Group: ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Approval of financial reporting: Under the Articles of Association, all Directors are Oversight of the Groups internal controls: subject to election at the AGM immediately following Approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a their appointment and to re-election every three years.
significant size: However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors will seek election or re-election at the Companys AGM Board membership and appointments: each year.
To enable Shareholders to make an informed Acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed limit: decision, the 2016 Notice of AGM includes biographical details and a statement as to why the Company believes Corporate governance matters: and that the Directors should be re-elected.
Approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
it is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors standing for re-election brings considerable The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities management experience and an independent perspective to Board Committees, including the Nominations, to the Boards discussions and is considered to Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board also be independent of management and free from any appoints Committees to approve specific processes relationship or circumstance that could affect, or appear as deemed necessary.
For example, during the year, to affect, the exercise of their independent judgment.
Board Committees were established to approve bank The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM that the documentation, share allotments, and the preliminary and performance of each individual continues to be effective interim results announcements.
and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed are available on request from the Company Secretary or in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 85 to on the SiG website www.
Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively, the share capital of the Company and of share options all Directors have full access to all relevant information held are set out on pages 90 to 98 in the Directors and to the services of the Company Secretary, whose Remuneration Report.
responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure whereby Directors wishing to take www.
com Stock code: ShI 60 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE independent legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed including the formal minuting of any unresolved concerns that any Director may have in connection with the operation of the Company.
During the year there were no such unresolved issues.
Further, on resignation, ifaNon-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him her to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
All Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Appropriate training is available to all Directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
Following the implementation of BoardPad, a secure iPad paperless meeting system in 2012, its successful roll-out has progressively resulted in the replacement of hard copy packs with electronic versions.
Paperless meetings are now the norm, not only for the Board but also its Committees and the Group Executive Committee.
This supports our online drive across the Group and is consistent with reducing the impact of our operations on the environment.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 to avoid any situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, ifa companys Articles of Association permit and Shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of any conflicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures have been applied during the year and are now included as a regular item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Directors of the Company.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 61 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Governance CONTiNUED ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 December 2015: Remuneration Nominations Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Meetings eligible to Meetings eligible to Meetings eligible to Meetings eligible to attend attend attend attend 2 10 maximum 5 maximum 4 maximum 4 maximum 1 Ms A. Abt 8 4 3 2 Ms J. E. Ashdown 10 5 4 4 Mr M. Ewell 10 5 4 4 Mr C. V. Geoghegan 10 5 4 4 Mr S. R. Mitchell 10 N A N A 4 Mr J. C. Nicholls 10 5 4 4 Mr D. G. Robertson 10 N A N A N A Mr L. Van fide Walle 10 N A N A 4 1.
Ms A. Abt was appointed to the Board on 12 March 2015 and attended all meetings to which she was entitled to attend.
There were two unscheduled Board meetings in 2015 relating to the consideration of acquisitions and consideration of trading conditions.
Of the ten Board meetings held in 2015, two were held by telephone conference call.
This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Where N A appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee.
All of the Directors in office at the date of the AGM were in attendance at that meeting.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are discussed.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Senior independent Director also meets with the other independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
in general, the Board endeavours to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations both in the UK & ireland and Mainland Europe to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend divisional and Group management conferences whenever possible.
All Directors attended the 2015 AGM and were available to answer any questions raised by the Shareholders.
com Stock code: ShI 62 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE GROUP BOARD audIt coMMIttee NoMINatIoNs coMMIttee reMuNeratIoN coMMIttee The Audit Committee operates under The Nominations Committee operates The Remuneration Committee operates written Terms of Reference, which are under written Terms of Reference, which under written Terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
The are consistent with current best practice.
consistent with current best practice.
The Committee comprises only independent The Committee comprises the Chairman, Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Chief Executive and the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the AGM to respond Non-Executive Directors.
The meetings of the Committee attends the AGM to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be the Committee are chaired by the Nonto any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
The Chairman of the raised on the Committees activities.
The Committees report is set out on pages 72 Committee attends the AGM to respond to Committees report is set out on pages 80 any Shareholder questions that might be to 77. to 98. raised on the Committees activities.
The The Group operates an outsourced internal delegated authorities: Committees report is set out on pages 78 Audit function, undertaken by KPMG LLP.
Sets remuneration and incentives for to 79.
The Board annually reviews the need for the Executive Directors: approves and such a function and the effectiveness of the delegated authorities: monitors remuneration and incentive plans outsourced internal Audit Function.
Ensures that the Board and its Committees for the Group: and assesses and makes have the optimum balance of skills, recommendations to the Board on the delegated authorities: knowledge and experience by nominating policy of Executive remuneration.
Monitors the integrity of financial reporting, suitable candidates for approval by the the performance of the external Auditor and Members: Board to fill Executive and Non-Executive reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Mr C. V. Geoghegan Chairman vacancies.
systems of internal control and related Ms A. Abt compliance activities.
Members: Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr L. Van fide Walle Chairman Mr M. Ewell Members: Ms A. Abt Mr J. C. Nicholls Mr J. C. Nicholls Chairman Ms J. E. Ashdown Ms A. Abt Mr M. Ewell Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr C. V. Geoghegan Mr M. Ewell Mr S. R. Mitchell Mr C. V. Geoghegan Mr J. C. Nicholls Group eXecutIVe coMMIttee Group taX aNd treasury coMMIttee The Executive Committee operates under written Terms of Reference.
The Treasury Committee operates under the terms set out in the The Committee addresses operational issues and is responsible for written Treasury Policy Manual.
The Committee considers liquidity implementing Group strategy and policies, day-to-day management and and funding, interest rate risk management, foreign exchange risk monitoring performance.
The Committee met eleven times during the management, counterparty credit risk management and any other year.
Mr c. Horn Members: Members: Group Operations Director Mr s. r. Mitchell chairman Mr I. Jackson chairman from 1 December 2015 Chief Executive Group Financial Controller Mr r. t. Barclay Mr d. G. robertson Mr d. G. robertson Managing Director, Group Finance Director Group Finance Director UK & ireland Mrs L. H. Kennedy-Mccarthy Mr r. c. Monro Mr p. denece Group Human Resources Company Secretary Managing Director, France Director from 1 March 2016 Mrs s. clarke Mr L. Lvovich Group Treasurer Mr M. Hamori Corporate Development Managing Director, Germany Director Mr I. Norris from 1 March 2016 from 1 January 2015 Risk & Financial Controller Mr M. pearson Group Chief information Officer SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 63 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Governance CONTiNUED EFFECTIVENESS AND EVALUATION Board effectiveness and performance evaluation The proposed Board priorities for 2016 will cover: The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital Closely monitoring performance and delivery to the success of the Company.
During the year the Board against 2016 to 2018 targets and performance of its continued its ongoing evaluation process to assess its competitors: performance and that of its three principal Committees Obtaining a better understanding and anticipating more Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
actively the development of the market, customers and in December 2014, as part of this programme, the Board competitors: commissioned Equity Communications Limited, an improving cost management culture and driving the independent third party with no other connection to the structural costs review: Company, to prepare a tailored Board Evaluation process.
This was facilitated by way of a questionnaire process Continuing focus and progress on the Companys with the emphasis, in addition to the evaluation of the Health & Safety Zero Harm campaign: and performance of the Board and its Committees, being Progressing an enhanced people agenda, targeted at identifying the future needs of the Board, including succession planning, strengthening front including Board succession planning and performance, line management and reviewing organisational strategy development and delivery, and Board skills and effectiveness.
Each Director completed their questionnaire and these were then evaluated by the independent The Board notes that the Code requires FTSE 350 facilitator who then prepared a report for the Chairman.
companies to carry out an externally facilitated Board The Chairman and the facilitator presented the results of evaluation at least every three years.
Having last the evaluation to the Board, which discussed the results conducted such an evaluation in December 2014, the of the evaluation in detail at its January 2015 meeting.
Board intends to conduct a formal externally facilitated The discussions then focused on how the actions and effectiveness and evaluation process in 2017. improvements identified through the process should be The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each implemented.
The Board was satisfied that the evaluation Director their training and development needs.
During of its performance was a worthwhile exercise and that the the year a number of the Directors attended training Directors had participated on an open and frank basis.
courses and seminars on various subjects, including those in December 2015, by way of follow up to the formal that the Chairman had identified as being areas where evaluation process completed in December 2014, an training would increase the knowledge and effectiveness effectiveness survey of the Board and its Committees of the Director.
The Board as a whole received training Audit, Remuneration and Nominations was undertaken.
on Corporate Governance developments in relation to The surveys were internally facilitated and carried out by revisions to the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, questionnaire.
Each Director including the Chairman was the Longer-Term Viability Statement and Auditor reporting asked to place a score against a variety of questions and requirements.
Further training is programmed for 2016. to make additional comments where appropriate.
The The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior surveys also sought to identify the extent to which the independent Director, meet once a year without the issues raised in the previous evaluation process had been Chairman present to assess his performance, taking into addressed.
The summary report and response analysis for account the views of the Executive Directors.
the December 2015 survey were presented to the Board in January 2016, with suggested improvement actions.
risk management and internal control Whilst concluding that the Board and its Committees The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups continue to improve their effectiveness and are perceived system of internal control and for reviewing its to be working well, the evaluation identified a number effectiveness.
it is the role of management to implement of areas for improvement in connection with Board the Boards policies on risk and control through the design succession planning and further sharing of best practices and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
There is also scope to improve systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the monitoring, testing and adaptation of business the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and performance and strategy implementation.
With regard to can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute markets, areas for improvement are to better understand assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the development of the market and benchmarking against key competitors, together with identification of market trends and forecasting.
com Stock code: ShI 64 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the A comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, annual budget for each operating company is prepared accounting policies and practices, standards of risk in detail and approved by the Chief Executive.
management and risk management procedures and TheBoard approves the overall Groups budget and compliance controls.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the year The key elements of the existing systems of internal isrevised where necessary.
Any significant changes control, which accord with the FRCs Guidance on Risk and adverse variances are questioned by the Board Management and internal Control and Related Financial with remedial action taken where appropriate.
Thereis and Business Reporting the Risk Guidance, are as also regular cash and treasury reporting to the Group follows: Finance Director and periodic reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and treasury position: Open culture The Board considers that the Group operates a riskProvision to management and the Board of relevant, aware culture with an open style of communication.
This accurate and timely information including relevant key facilitates the early identification of problems and issues, performance indicators, based on reliable management so that appropriate action is taken quickly to minimise any information systems which are continually being impact on the business.
improved and updated: Monthly reports to the Board from the Chief Executive Ongoing process for risk identification, evaluation and and Group Finance Director: management Regular business unit management board meetings This process includes the following: periodically attended by the Chief Executive or Group The Group Board maintains an overall corporate risk Finance Director, Executive Board meetings and the register, the content of which is determined by regular Company Board meetings at which existing, new discussions between senior management, the Group and evolving operational, financial and other risks are Board and the Audit Committee.
This is also formally discussed, and appropriate actions to manage these reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and risks are agreed and followed up: discussed with the Board.
The risk register contains Discussion of any significant issues or control the significant risks faced by the Group and identifies weaknesses identified and, if considered necessary, the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross level their inclusion in reports to the Executive Board and the before consideration of mitigating controls and net Company Board: level after consideration of mitigating controls.
This provides the Board with the opportunity to review the Operating units, both trading sites and central level of risk that the business is prepared to accept.
functions, complete comprehensive Control Self The register also contains the assurance provided Assessment CSA questionnaires every six months.
over current key mitigating controls.
Where further These questionnaires require managers to respond to actions have been identified to mitigate risks to a level questions about procedures and controls in the unit deemed acceptable, these are agreed with specific for which they have responsibility.
These are analysed timelines for delivery and are monitored closely until by local and Group management and all potential risks fully implemented.
This is summarised in the Strategic or control failure issues which are raised by the CSA Report on pages 20 to 23: process are classed in terms of escalation levels with any significant Group level issues being reported to the The risk management process is cascaded throughout Audit Committee: and the Group, with operating subsidiary boards responsible for maintaining their own risk registers and A structured and approved programme of internal Audit assessing their internal control systems: visits with the implementation of recommendations made being monitored as part of a continuous A defined organisation structure with appropriate programme of improvement.
delegation of authority: Formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: Clear responsibilities on the part of financial management for the maintenance of good financial controls and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management information: SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 65 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Governance CONTiNUED Financial reporting in addition to the general internal controls and risk The Company Secretary is required to report to the management processes described on pages 64 to 66, the Audit Committee semi-annually on the integrity of these Group also has specific systems and controls to govern procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and the financial reporting process and preparation of the conclusions reached.
During 2015 Group employees used Annual Report and Accounts.
These systems include clear this system to raise concerns about a number of separate policies and the procedures for ensuring that the Groups issues, all of which were appropriately responded to.
financial reporting processes and the preparation of its Consolidated Accounts comply with all relevant regulatory Overall assessment reporting requirements.
These are comprehensively The risk framework, as outlined above, gives reasonable detailed in the Group Finance Manual, which is used by assurance that the structure of controls in operation is the businesses in the preparation of their results.
Financial appropriate to the Groups situation and that there is an control requirements are also set out in the Group Finance acceptable level of risk throughout the business.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks internal control faced by the Group and that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the During 2015 the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This review covered all controls including operational, RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS compliance and risk management procedures, as well as financial controls.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders, including its The Board and Audit Committee requested, received and employee Shareholders, to ensure that its strategy and reviewed reports from senior management, its advisers, performance is understood.
This is achieved principally the outsourced internal Audit function and our external through the Annual Report and Accounts and the AGM.
Auditor in order to assist the Board with their annual The Groups annual and interim results, aswell as all assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, internal control.
Through the ongoing processes outlined are published on the Companys website.
The Company on pages 64 to 66, improvements in internal controls issues regular trading updates to themarket and these, are continuously identified and action plans are devised.
together with copies of the presentations made to Progress towards completion of actions is regularly analysts, can also be found on the Companys website.
monitored by management and the Board.
The Board in addition, a range of other corporate information is considers that none of the areas of improvement identified available to investors on the Companys website www.
constitute a significant failing or weakness.
considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head internal controls in accordance with the internal control of investor Relations are primarily responsible for direct guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the FRC.
The Board is kept informed of investors views through distribution and regular discussion of Whistleblowing analysts and brokers briefings and a summary of investor The Group has in place a Whistleblowing Policy under opinion feedback.
in addition, feedback from major which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns Shareholders isreported to the Board by the Chairman about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or and the Group Finance Director and discussed at its other matters.
A copy of this policy is available on the meetings.
Formal presentations are made to institutional Companys website www.
Shareholders following the announcement of the Companys annual and interim results.
The Company also has in place a confidential hotline which is available to all of the Groups employees The Company hosted a Capital Markets Day in London and provides a facility for them to bring matters to on 16 November 2015.
The presentation can be viewed at managements attention on a confidential basis.
hotline is provided by an independent third party.
During Contact is also maintained, where appropriate, with 2015 these systems were operational throughout the Shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and Group.
A full investigation is carried out on all matters policies.
The Chairman and the Senior independent raised and a report is prepared for feedback to the Director are available to discuss governance and strategy complainant.
with major Shareholders ifrequested, and both are prepared to contact individual Shareholders should any specific areas of concern or enquiry be raised.
The Chairman also offers to meet with major Shareholders each year.
com Stock code: ShI 66 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE Throughout the year, the Company responds to The Notice of Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 correspondence received from Shareholders on a wide working days before the meeting.
The Company provides range of issues and also participates in a number of a facility forShareholders to vote electronically and the surveys and questionnaires submitted by a variety Form of Proxy provides Shareholders with the option ofinvestor research bodies.
Although the other Nonof withholding their vote on a resolution if they so wish.
Executive Directors are not at present asked to meet Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll the Companys Shareholders, they regularly review the is validly called and, after each such vote, the number presentations of the annual and interim results.
of Proxy votes received for or against the resolution together with the number of abstentions is announced.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal The Company Secretary ensures that votes are properly forum for dialogue with private Shareholders and all received and recorded.
Details of the Proxies lodged on Shareholders are invited to attend.
All Directors attend all resolutions are published on the Companys website the AGM and are available to answer any questions that immediately after the AGM.
Shareholders may wish to raise.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS At the date of approval of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the Company had received notification of the following shareholdings in excess of 3% of its issued share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority as at 31 December 2015 and 8 March 2016: Voting Rights as at Voting Rights as at Shareholder 31 December 2015 % 8 March 2016 % BlackRock, inc. 45,618,814 7.71% Below 5% N A Aviva plc 36,299,012 6.14% 36,299,012 6.14% Schroder investment Management Limited 33,016,449 5.58% 33,016,449 5.58% Massachusetts Financial Services Company - - 29,984,285 5.07% Lancaster investment Management LLP 29,975,100 5.07% 29,975,100 5.07% iKO Enterprises Limited 25,760,891 4.36% 25,760,891 4.36% Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Pension Fund 17,765,599 3.00% 17,765,599 3.00% statement of the directors on the disclosure of Viability statement information to the auditor The Viability Statement can be found on page 39 of the The Directors who held office at the date of approval of Strategic Report.
this Statutory information confirm that: Independent auditor So far as they are each aware, there is no relevant On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, in audit information of which the Companys Auditor is accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act unaware: and 2006, resolutions are to be proposed at the AGM for Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix its of any relevant audit information and to establish that remuneration.
The remuneration of theAuditor for the year the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
ended 31 December 2015 is fully disclosed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 120.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the publication of annual report and Notice of aGM Companies Act 2006.
Shareholders are to note that the SiG plc Annual Report 2015, together with the Notice convening the AGM have Going concern statement been published on the Companys website www.
The Going Concern Statement can be found on page 39 com.
if Shareholders have elected to receive Shareholder of the Strategic Report.
correspondence in hard copy, then the Annual Report and Notice convening the AGM will be distributed to them.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 67 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Governance CONTiNUED annual General Meeting Greenhouse gases The Notice convening the AGM, which is to be held at the Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are Mercure Sheffield Parkway Hotel, Britannia Way, Catcliffe, detailed on pages 44 to 45 of the Corporate Responsibility Sheffield S60 5BD at 12 noon on Thursday 12May 2016, Report.
together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be employees proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising Details of the Groups policies relating to employees are voting rights, will be circulated to all Shareholders that detailed on pages 41 to 52 of the Corporate Responsibility have elected to receive Shareholder correspondence in Report.
hard copy at least 20 working days before the meeting along with this Report.
This document will also be post balance sheet events available onthe SiG plc website www.
All Details of post balance sheet events including details of Shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, at which any acquisitions and disposals in the year are included they will have the opportunity to put questions to the in Note 13 on pages 130 to 132 of the Consolidated Board.
OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES related party transactions principal activity and business review Save as disclosed in Note 29 to the Consolidated The principal activity of the Group is the supply of Financial Statements on page 152 and except for specialist products to construction and related markets in Directors service contracts, the Company did not have the UK, ireland and Mainland Europe.
The main product any material transactions or transactions of an unusual sectors supplied are insulation and Energy Management, nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties Exteriors and interiors.
in the periods in which any Director is or was materially interested.
The Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report on pages 1 to 52 contain a review of these activities and comment directors and officers liability insurance and on the future outlook and developments.
The financial risk indemnities management objectives, policies and key performance The Company purchases liability insurance cover for indicators of the Company are also set out in the Strategic Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries Report.
which gives appropriate cover for any legal action As at the date of this report, there have been no important brought against them.
The Company has also provided events affecting the business of the Company, or any of an indemnity which was in force during the financial year its subsidiaries, which have occurred since theend of the for its Directors to the extent permitted by the law in financial year.
respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or including disabled employees and information on dishonestly.
charitable donations are disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report onpages 41 to 52. it is the Groups No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no policy not to make political donations and no political qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions have donations were made during the year 2014: nil.
been made either during the year or by the time of approval of this Directors Report.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate Governance are disclosed on pages 59 to 71.
Financial instruments information on the Groups financial risk management Group results and dividends objectives and policies on the exposure of the Group to The Consolidated income Statement for the year relevant risks arising from financial instruments is set out ended 31 December 2015 is shown on page 102.
The on pages 37 and 38 and in Note 18 to the Consolidated movement in Group reserves during the year isshown on Financial Statements on pages 136 to 139. page 106 in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Segmental information is set out in Note 1 to the acquisitions and disposals Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 115 to 117.
Details of acquisitions made and businesses sold during the year and subsequently are covered in Note 13 to the The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.91p Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 130 to 132. per share 2014: 2.98p which, together with the interim dividend of 1.69p per share 2014:1.42p, makes a total for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 4.60p 2014: 4.40p.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the AGM, will be made on 27 May 2016 to Shareholders registered at the close of business on 29 April 2016. www.
com Stock code: ShI 68 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE Group companies Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of such dividends A full list of Group Companies is disclosed on pages 170 cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends on any class of share capital shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the The Company has a single class of share capital which periods they decide provided the distributable profits of is divided into ordinary shares of 10p each.
At 31 the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, if December 2015, the Company had a called up share authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders, capital of 591,347,148 ordinary shares of 10p each 2014: offer any Shareholder the right to elect to receive new 591,137,803. ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 209,345 after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary shares have then belong to the Company, unless the Directors decide been allotted under these schemes since the end of otherwise.
the financial year to the date of this Report.
Details of if the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the outstanding options under the Groups Employee and sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed by the Executive Schemes are set out in Note 9 on pages 124 to Shareholders, divide among the Shareholders allor any part 126 which also contains details of options granted over of the assets of the Company and he she can value any unissued share capital.
assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or differentclasses of members.
rights attaching to shares The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the in the Companys Articles of Association.
NoShareholders can be compelled to accept Association may be changed by special resolution of the any asset which would give them a liability.
A Shareholder whose name appears on the Companys Register of Members can choose whether Voting at general meetings his shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. in Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders certificated form or held in electronic i. e. uncertificated in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the the Company, whether in written form or in electronic UK.
form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the attend any general meeting of the Company and, on a person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
show of hands, every Shareholder or his representative The Board may determine that the Shareholder is not who is present at a general meeting has one vote on entitled to exercise any right conferred by being a each resolution and, on a poll, every Shareholder or Shareholder if he she or any person with an interest in his representative who is present has one vote on each shares has been sent a Notice under Section 793 of resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public registered Shareholder.
companies the power to require information with respect A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is to interests in their voting shares and he she or any decided on a show of hands unless before or on the interested person failed tosupply the Company with the declaration of the result of a vote on a show of hands, information requested within 14 days after delivery of a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the meeting, or that Notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend by at least five Shareholders or their representatives is payable in respect of those default shares and that no present in person and having the right to vote, or by transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
any Shareholders or their representatives present in These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the person having at least 10% of the total voting rights Company of a Notice of an approved transfer of the of all Shareholders, or by any Shareholders or their shares or all the information required by the relevant representatives present in person holding ordinary shares Section 793 Notice, whichever is the earlier.
in which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 69 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Governance CONTiNUED v transfer of shares He she fails to attend Board meetings for six consecutive months without leave of absence from The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated the Board and the Board resolves that his her office is share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does vacated: not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also vi His her appointment terminates in accordance with refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless: the provisions of the Companys Articles: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if vii He she is dismissed from Executive office: stampable, at the registered office of the Company or viii any other place decided by the Board accompanied by a He she is convicted of an indictable offence and the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the of the Company that he she remains a Director: or right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect ix The conduct of the Director is the subject of an of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour of not more investigation and the Directors resolve that it is than four transferees.
undesirable in the interests of the Company that he she remains a Director.
Transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of agreements with employees and significant an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations agreements contracts of significance governing the operation of CREST.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for Variation of rights loss of office or employment whether through resignation, if at any time the capital of the Company is divided into purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because different classes of shares, the special rights attaching to of a takeover bid.
any class may be varied or revoked either: The Companys banking arrangements are terminable i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% upon a change of control of the Company.
Certain other in nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
Fixed assets in the opinion of the Directors, there is no material The Company can issue new shares and attach any difference between the book value and the current rights to them.
if there is no restriction by special rights open market value of the Groups interests in land and attaching to existing shares, rights attaching to new buildings.
shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares are deemed crest to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the reduction of paid up capital, or if another share of that settlement system for stocks and shares.
same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend, or in respect of capital or more favourable voting 2016 Interim report rights.
Current regulations permit the Company not to send hard copies of its interim Reports to Shareholders and election and re-election of directors therefore the Company intends to publish its interim The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which Report only on its website at www.
special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act, remove any Director before the expiration acquisition by the company of its own ordinary of his her period of office.
The office of a Director shall be shares vacated if: Shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company i He she ceases to be a Director by virtue of any of 59,113,780 of its own shares existed at the end of the provision of law or is removed pursuant to the year.
The Company has made no purchases of its own Companys Articles of Association or he she becomes ordinary shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company prohibited by law from being a Director: will seek to renew this authority at the 2016 AGM.
ii He she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his her creditors generally: iii He she becomes of unsound mind or a patient for any purpose of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves that his her office is vacated: iv He she resigns: www.
com Stock code: ShI 70 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE authority to allot ordinary shares For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following Shareholders authority to allot ordinary shares up to an locations: aggregate nominal amount of 19,704,593 existed at the end of the year.
The Company has not issued any ordinary Section Topic Location shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at the 2016 AGM.
1 interest capitalised Financial Statements, page 129, Note 12 During the year ended 31 December 2015, options 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable were exercised pursuant to the Companys share financial information option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 209,345 4 Details of long-term incentive Directors Remuneration new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary shares have schemes Report, pages 91 to 93 been allotted under these schemes since the end of 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Not applicable the financial year to the date of this Report.
Details of director outstanding options under the Groups Employee and 6 Waiver of future emoluments Not applicable Executive Schemes are set out in Note 9 on pages 124 to by a director 126 which also contains details of options granted over 7 Non pre-emptive issues of Not applicable unissued share capital.
equity for cash 8 item 7 in relation to major Not applicable Fair, balanced and understandable subsidiary undertakings The Directors have a responsibility for preparing the 2015 9 Parent participation in a Not applicable Annual Report and Accounts and for making certain placing by a listed subsidiary confirmations concerning it.
in accordance with C. 1 of 10 Contracts of significance Corporate Governance the Code, the Board has reviewed the contents of this Report, page 70 years Annual Report and Accounts and it considers 11 Provision of services by a Not applicable that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole controlling shareholder is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the 12 Shareholder waivers of Not applicable information necessary for Shareholders to assess the dividends Companys position and performance, business model 13 Shareholder waivers of future Not applicable dividends and strategy.
More information can be found in the Audit Committee Report on page 77.
14 Agreements with controlling Not applicable shareholders cautionary statement SiG has been mindful of the best practice guidance The cautionary statement can be found on page 40 of the published by Defra and other bodies in relation to Strategic Report.
environmental, community and social KPis when drafting content of directors report the Strategic Report.
The Board has also considered The Corporate Governance Report including the Board social, environmental and ethical risks, in line with the biographies, which can be found on pages 56 to 71, best practice recommendations of the Association of the Audit Committee Report on pages 72 to 77, the British insurers.
Management, led by the Chief Executive, Nominations Committee Report on pages 78 to 79, and has responsibility for identifying and managing such risks, the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 99 are which are discussed extensively in this Annual Report and incorporated by reference and form part of this Directors Accounts.
All the information cross-referenced is hereby The Board has prepared a Strategic Report including the incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Chief Executives Statement which provides an overview approval of the directors report of the development and performance of the Companys The Directors Report set out on pages 56 to 99 was business in the year ended 31 December 2015 and its approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2016 and position at the end of the year, and which covers likely signed on its behalf by Richard Monro.
future developments in the business of the Company and Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Report forms part of the Strategic Report.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the required content of the Management Report can be RIChARD MONRO found in the Strategic Report and this Directors Report, Company Secretary including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 8 March 2016 incorporated by reference.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 71 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1
