Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Committee membership key Q Audit Committee V Corporate Responsibility Committee Y Executive Committee O Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee x Treasury Committee 4.
InJuly2014, Martin was appointed Chief Engineer of Severn Trent 3.
Emma FitzGerald MA, DPhil Oxon, MBA 48 Plc, covering engineering design standards, quality assurance, Managing Director Wholesale Operations R&D and innovation for the group and all health and safety aspects We are delighted that Emma will be joining Severn Trent on 1 July of operations.
Emma is currently CEO of Gas Distribution at National Grid where she has been accountable for providing affordable energy, External appointments safely and reliably to 11 million customers through 132,000 km of Member of the boards of Utilities and Service Industries Training gas distribution pipelines, leading 9000 employees and contractors.
Limited and National Association of Water Companies US She is also a Non-executive Director of Alent Plc.
Prior to joining Trustee of International Society for Trenchless Technology National Grid, she pursued a 20 year career with Royal Dutch 7.
Bronagh Kennedy BA Hons 51 Shell where she held a variety of technical, strategic and general management positions based in Asia and Europe including Vice Group General Counsel and Company Secretary President Global Retail Network and Managing Director of Shell Bronagh joined Severn Trent in June 2011.
Bronagh is a solicitor China Hong Kong Lubricants based in Beijing.
and was previously Group Company Secretary and General Counsel at Mitchells & Butlers, where she worked for 15 years.
External appointments Prior to that, she was a Senior Associate at Allen & Overy.
She is Non-executive director of Alent plc amember of the GC100 Group.
Trustee, Windsor Leadership Member of International Leadership Advisory Panel, 8.
James Bowling BA, ACA 46 PrimeMinisters ofce, Singapore Government Chief Financial officer Please see full biography on page 48.
Evelyn Dickey BSc Hons 52 Director of Human Resources 9.
Helen Miles CIMA 44 Evelyn joined Severn Trent in November 2006.
Evelyn has Group Commercial Director extensive HR experience leading design and delivery of major Helen joined Severn Trent in November 2014 and brings with her a change programmes, business restructuring, employee relations, breadth of experience having worked within regulated businesses resourcing, executive remuneration, organisational capability and sectors across telecoms, leisure and banking.
As a member and performance management initiatives.
Before joining Severn of the UK senior management team, Helen was instrumental Trent, Evelyn worked in HR consultancy and as HR Director HR in delivering HomeServes future growth plans and ensuring a Operations for Boots the Chemists.
Helen was previously External appointments Chief Financial officer for Openreach, part of BT Group plc.
Non-executive director of Nuclear Decommissioning Authority Prior to BT Group, Helen worked for Bass Taverns, Barclays Bank, Compass Group and HSBC.
Olivia Gareld BA Hons 39 Chief Executive 10.
Andy Smith BTech Hons 54 Please see full biography on page 49.
Martin Kane BSc CEng CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 62 Andy brings a broad range of executive and operational expertise gained from diverse sectors to the Executive Committee.
Andy has Martin joined Severn Trent Water in 1975 and has held various significant experience having worked in the UK and overseas with senior roles giving him an extensive and unique understanding of global businesses such as BP, Mars and Pepsi, in engineering and the design, construction and operation of water and waste water operational management roles.
Previously he was a member of treatment plants, water distribution networks and sewerage the board at Boots Group Plc.
Martin was Director of Customer Relations, Severn Trent Water, from May 2006 until January 2012, when he was External appointments appointed Chief Executive Officer of Severn Trent Services.
Non-executive director of Diploma Plc Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52 Governance report This Corporate Governance report describes the manner in which the company Group Authorisation Arrangements has applied the principles set out in the Governance Code during the year.
The Group Authorisation Arrangements GAA are The Governance Code sets out five key principles: Leadership, Effectiveness, the framework through which the Severn Trent Plc Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with shareholders.
This report board authorises the right people, at the right level, to take important decisions as we manage legal, demonstrates how the company has applied best practice corporate governance financial and administrative issues throughout in these key areas.
The GAA are designed to facilitate good control, efficient decision-making and demonstrable compliance.
These arrangements are reviewed Leadership annually, with the last review undertaken in Charter of Expectations March 2015.
During the year the Severn Trent Charter of Expectations has been adopted to The ow of authority is from the Severn Trent Plc promote and implement best practice corporate governance.
The Charter sets board to the Chief Executive and the Severn Trent out the role proles and expectations of all key positions on the groups boards Executive Committee.
In respect of certain issues, together referred to as the board, and board committees, and also reects the delegated authority is subject to an obligation to work with specialist business services areas the boards responsibility for setting the tone for the groups culture, values such as Tax, Treasury, Group Finance and Company and behaviour.
Secretariat, which provide additional expertise and a group-wide perspective.
It is envisaged that having such expectations clearly documented will assist in the assessment of the effectiveness of the board and its committees, and that of individual directors.
The Charter of Expectations is published and available on our website Governance of subsidiaries www.
com so that there is complete transparency of the standards The membership of the board of the listed we set ourselves for all of our stakeholders.
company, Severn Trent Plc, is the same as that of its regulated subsidiary, Severn Trent Water Limited.
The performance of the board and board committees and of each director will This structure was implemented in 2007 to ensure be measured against these expectations.
that the highest standards of corporate governance were applied at the regulated subsidiary level and Board membership to promulgate greater visibility and supervision 2014 15 saw a number of changes to the boards composition due to carefully of Severn Trent Water Limited by the Plc board.
managed succession planning and evaluation of its required skills and Severn Trent Water Limited will therefore be voluntarily complying with the 2012 UK Corporate capabilities.
As a consequence, it was announced that the board would be Governance Code the Governance Code to ensure reduced from eleven to eight directors, with effect from 23 January 2015. these high standards also apply to it.
Richard Davey stepped down as non-executive director, having served nine The two companies operate as distinct legal entities.
years and was succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Martin Lamb The boards comply with the Severn Trent Plc Board Governance document and the Severn Trent Water who has been on the board for six years and by The Hon.
Philip Remnant as Limited Matters Reserved to the board.
They are Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Michael McKeon ceased to be a assisted through the management of separate director and Chief Financial officer on 1 April 2015 having served almost ten agendas, meetings and minutes by the Company years.
Michael was succeeded by James Bowling effective the same date.
Secretariat and advised in their meetings by the Company Secretary where appropriate.
Dr. Tony Ballance, Martin Kane and Andy Smith retired from the board, but Subsidiary company boards are required to be remained members of the Severn Trent Executive Committee and retained their managed scrupulously with respect to legal, scal executive responsibilities in their areas of remit.
In particular, the relationships between Severn Trent Water Limited The board would like to thank Richard, Michael, Tony, Martin and Andy for and our other businesses such as Severn Trent their service.
Business Services are monitored and controlled to ensure that our obligations under competition law These changes will support the effectiveness of the board with an appropriate and regulatory requirements are complied with in balance of innovation, experience, independence and challenge to ensure respect of all transactions between them, or with effective decision making.
Photographs of the members of the board, together with their biographies and a description of the complementary skills and diverse experience that they bring to bear, can be found on pages 48 and 49.
In accordance with the Governance Code, all the directors will retire at this years Annual General Meeting AGM and submit themselves for election or re-election by the shareholders.
Details of our policy on diversity in the boardroom are provided in the Nominations Committee report on pages 61 and 62.
