Audit Committee Report The Committee aims to ensure high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, an appropriate control environment, risk management framework and compliance monitoring.
JONAThAN NIChOllS Chairman of the Audit Committee DEAR SHAREHOLDER, PURPOSE AND AIM On behalf of the Board i am pleased to present the Audit The purpose of the Audit Committee the Committee is Committee Report for 2015. to make recommendations on the reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects of the Directors KPMG LLP was appointed as the Groups outsourced and the Groups responsibilities, providing independent internal Audit function with effect from 1 January 2014, monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive and their work continues to provide a fresh focus to key Management in these areas.
areas of risk and control.
Through this process the Committees aim is to ensure KPMGs internal Control Review undertaken in December high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, 2014 supports the view that the Group has an effective an appropriate control environment, risk management system of internal financial control.
Management actions framework and compliance monitoring.
The Committee continued to be taken to improve controls and bring believes that excellence in these areas enhances the efficiencies across the business in 2015. in 2014 KPMG effectiveness and reduces the risks of the business.
performed an implementation review and there has been further focus this year on iT, in particular a post KEY RESPONSIBILITIES implementation review of the ERP system in the UK.
The accounting policies applied in, and the integrity of, Reviews were undertaken in iT performance management the Groups accounts: and Group iT strategy, to identify improvements to the control environment.
As a result of the creation of the new The effectiveness of the internal control and risk role of Chief information Officer in 2014 giving further management systems: focus to iT strategy and controls across the Group, iT and The effectiveness of Whistleblowing procedures: cyber security will continue to be a key area of focus in The effectiveness of the Groups outsourced internal 2016.
Audit function: Although going concern is a matter for the whole Board The appointment, independence, remuneration and see page 39, a review is made by the Audit Committee of effectiveness of the Groups external Auditor: and the Groups headroom under its covenants and undrawn facilities in relation to the Groups financial forecasts and The supervision of any tender process for the Groups sensitivity analyses.
The Committee has again considered the issue of external The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are available Auditor rotation and, although continuing to keep this on the Companys website www.
under review, currently intends to next tender the Audit in 2018.
Further detail is provided in this Report.
The Company has complied during the financial year ended 31 December 2015 with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 that are applicable to it.
JONAThAN NIChOllS Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 March 2016 PURPOSE AND AIM www.
com Stock code: ShI 72 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP MEETINGS As at 31 December 2015, the Committee comprised The Committee meets regularly throughout the year, with the five independent Non-Executive Directors of the five meetings being held during 2015. its agenda is linked Company.
to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Attendance by individual members of the Committee Chairman of the Committee Members is disclosed in the table on page 62.
The Committee Mr J. C. Nicholls Ms J. E. Ashdown, Mr M. Ewell, Chairman regularly invites senior Company executives to Mr C. V. Geoghegan and Ms A. Abt attend meetings of the Committee to discuss or present The Board considers that each member of the Committee specific items, and in particular the Group Finance is independent within the definition set out in the Director, Mr D. G. Robertson, attended all five of the Code.
The combined relevant commercial and financial meetings in 2015.
The external Auditor attended meetings knowledge and experience of the Committee members of the Committee on four occasions and has direct access satisfies compliance with the UK Corporate Governance to the Committee Chairman.
The external Auditor meets Code the Code provision C. 3.1. periodically, and in between Committee meetings, with members of the Committee without the Chairman of the AUDIT COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Board and the Executive Directors being present.
KPMG The Committee operates under Terms of Reference LLP, who provides an outsourced internal Audit function which can be found on the Companys website.
They for the Group, attends meetings to present its reports.
The are reviewed annually by the Committee, including Committee also meets with KPMG without the Executive comparison against the Code, and changes are Directors being present, and the Committee Chairman recommended to the Board for approval.
meets regularly with KPMG outside of the formal meetings.
The Committee has in its Terms of Reference the power to engage outside advisors and to obtain its own independent external advice at the Companys expense, should it be deemed necessary.
During 2015 no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, found it necessary to obtain such separate advice beyond the advice that is directly provided to the Committee by the external Auditor, Deloitte LLP or from KPMG LLP, who operate the Groups outsourced internal Audit function.
As part of Corporate Governance the Committee reviews its own performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
The Committee reviewed its own performance in December 2015 and the results of this review were reported to the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the key issues covered by the Committee, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes recommendations on the steps to be taken.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 73 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Audit Committee Report CONTiNUED The Committee addressed the following key agenda items during its five meetings in 2015: 6 March 2015 1 June 2015 29 June 2015 5 August 2015 10 December 2015 internal Audit Review of the Consideration Review of the Review of the update internal Audit of 2015 interim internal Audit internal control report results including report report Review of Going Goodwill and Concern basis of Risk Register Review of 2015 Consideration Going Concern accounting update interim results of the risk Review management Goodwill and Review of the Goodwill and programme for review process intangible assets Committees intangible assets 2015 interim Audit impairment review Terms of impairment review Review and review Reference approve the 2016 Consideration Review of Going Updates on internal Audit of the risk Review of Concern basis of Audit Quality and report management whistleblowing accounting external Auditor review process and non-audit Review of Review of the rotation services policies audit pre-close internal control external Auditors accounting and review Discussion of interim work and reporting issues the 2014 Annual report Review of 2014 Report compared Review of the audit process Review of the to best and updated year end and results, external Auditors emerging practice external audit and discussion year end audit planning report of significant Review of plan accounting performance of Agreement of Assessment of matters Committee and 2015 audit fee performance of identification and review Review of the external Auditor of training of Auditor 2014 external Corporate requirements independence Auditor report Governance Discussions Review of the update by regarding Going 2014 Annual external Auditor Concern and Report including including the Longerfair, balanced and updates on risk Term Viability understandable management Statement and Preliminary and the LongerResults Term Viability Review of Announcement Statement paper regarding disclosure of distributable reserves www.
com Stock code: ShI 74 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT OVERSIGHT OF INTERNAL AUDIT ACCOUNTING MATTERS The internal Audit function provides independent assurance to senior management and the Board on the The Committee considered the following financial adequacy and effectiveness of SiGs risk management reporting and key accounting issues with regard to the framework.
internal Audit forms an independent and financial statements: objective assessment as to whether: risks have been Recognition and measurement of supplier rebate income adequately identified: adequate internal controls are The Committee examined the procedures and controls in place to manage those risks: and those controls are in place to ensure that the reporting, reviewing and working effectively.
The results of all assignments have accounting for supplier rebate income is properly been reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
managed and that supplier rebates are recognised Areas of weakness that were identified during the year appropriately in the Group financial statements.
prompted a detailed action plan and a follow-up audit check to establish that actions had been completed.
No Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets failings or weaknesses were identified during the year The carrying value of goodwill is systematically reviewed which had a material effect on the Companys financial at each mid-year point and at year end.
methodology is applied to the individual cash generating The Audit Committee notes that the Company operates a units, taking account of market outlook, risk-adjusted Control Self Assessment CSA internal control process discounted future cash flows, sensitivities, and other to support the internal audit process.
This process is factors which may have a bearing on impairment summarised in the Corporate Governance Report on considerations.
Disclosure of Other items KPMG LLP was appointed on 1 January 2014 in place of The Committee gave careful consideration to the EY LLP to provide the outsourced internal Audit function.
judgments made in the separate disclosure of Other The appointment followed a full review process which items.
in particular, the Committee sought to ensure involved tenders being made by five accountancy firms that the treatment followed consistent principles and that leading to a shortlist of three firms from which a candidate reporting in the Group financial statements is suitably was recommended.
The process was carried out by clear and understandable.
the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee who then recommended KPMG to the Recognition and measurement of trade receivables Audit Committee as the selected internal audit provider.
Methodologies and judgments applied in establishing Their appointment was then recommended by the Audit provisions for trade receivables were examined to ensure Committee to the Board, and was approved by the Board.
consistent application and appropriateness to the trading position of the Group.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 75 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Audit Committee Report CONTiNUED OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR AUDIT TENDER The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate During the year, the Committee considered the Groups degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the position on its Auditor services, taking into account the Groups external Auditor.
The external Auditor reports to UK Corporate Governance Code, together with the EU the Committee on the actions taken to comply with both Audit Directive and Regulation and the Statutory Audit professional and regulatory requirements and with best Services for Large Companies Market investigation practice designed to ensure its independence.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Group has an agreed policy with regard to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external Having previously acted as Auditor to parts of the Group Auditor, which was operated throughout 2015.
The policy since 2003, Deloitte LLP was invited to tender for the is based on the principles that they should undertake nonentire Group audit in 2005 and this resulted in their audit services only where they are the most appropriate appointment as the Groups external Auditor.
and cost-effective provider of the service, and where the As noted previously, the Committee continues to review provision of non-audit services does not impair, or is not the performance of the external Auditor and has been perceived to impair, the external Auditors independence satisfied with the independence, objectivity, expertise, and objectivity.
it categorises such services as Auditorresources and general effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, and permitted services, Auditor-excluded services and that the Group is subjected to a rigorous audit process.
The policy, which can be The Committee does not consider it necessary to conduct viewed on the Companys website www.
com, a tender process for the appointment of the Companys defines the types of services falling under each category Auditor at this time, although the Committee will continue and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal to keep this under review.
approvals required prior to the commencement of any Auditor-authorised services.
The current lead audit partner took over the audit for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Committee is The external Auditor cannot be engaged to perform any currently of the view that it is potentially more effective to assignment where the output is then subject to their align the tender of the external Auditor with the rotation review as external Auditor.
The Committee regularly of the current lead audit partner, which is due in 2018, by reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external making use of the transition arrangements outlined by Auditor.
The policy and the external Auditors fees are the Financial Reporting Council in relation to the Code reviewed and set annually by the Committee and are and retaining the Companys existing audit firm until approved by the Board.
conclusion of the term of its current lead partner.
The total sum invoiced to the Group by its external Auditor The Committee recommends, and the Board agrees, for non-audit services in 2015 was 0.1m, primarily the that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP interim Review 2014: 0.1m.
The total sum invoiced by as Auditor of the Company for a further year will be them for audit services in respect of the same period was proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A full breakdown of Auditor fees Committee intends that the audit contract will be put out are disclosed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial to tender in 2017, in order that a decision can be taken Statements on page 120. and communicated to Shareholders at the 2018 AGM, The external Auditor reports to the Committee each with the new audit contract being effective for the 2018 year on the actions taken to comply with professional interim Review and final audit.
and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure its independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
Deloitte LLP has formally confirmed its independence tothe Board in respect of the period covered by these financial statements.
in August 2015, the Committee undertook its annual review of the effectiveness of the external Auditor and considered the reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
A questionnaire was sent to the Finance Directors of each of the Groups operating companies, which provided the Committee with an overall view across the Group.
From this questionnaire and further discussions, the Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP continues to provide an effective audit service.
com Stock code: ShI 76 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE The Committee has reviewed the contents of this years Annual Report and Accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information to enable Shareholders to assess the position and performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
in reaching this conclusion the Committee has considered the following: The preparation of the Annual Report is a collaborative process between Finance, Legal, Human Resources, investor Relations and Communications functions within SiG, ensuring the appropriate professional input to each section.
External guidance and advice is sought where appropriate: The coordination and project management is undertaken by a central team to ensure consistency and completeness of the document: An extensive review process is undertaken, both internally and through the use of external advisors: and A final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee members prior to consideration by the Board.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor.
On behalf of the Board JONAThAN NIChOllS Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 March 2016 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 77 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1
