Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Role of the Chairman Reporting obligations The role of Andrew Duff, your Chairman, is to lead a unitary board, facilitating the As a public listed company, the company is required contribution of its members at its meetings, and to be responsible for ensuring to comply with a range of reporting obligations set out by law and regulation.
that the management and processes of the board are maintained in line with the Code of Conduct and the Charter of Expectations.
The company recognises the importance of effective communication as a key part of building Agendas for board meetings are agreed by the Chairman in consultation shareholder value and that, to prosper and achieve with the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer and Company Secretary, growth, it must earn the trust of security holders, although any director may request that an item be added to the agenda.
The employees, customers, suppliers, communities, regulators and other stakeholders, by being open in Chairman demonstrates effective and ethical leadership for the company, its communications and consistently delivering on andhas authority to act and speak for the board between its meetings, including its commitments.
engaging with the Chief Executive, and providing support and advice where The company announces its results on a half yearly appropriate.
He reports to the board and committee Chairmen on decisions basis and also provides quarterly trading updates to and actions taken between meetings of the board and ensures effective the market.
working relations with open lines of communication with other group executive The Chief Executive has established a Disclosure committee members.
He also meets with the non-executive directors without Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial officer, the executive directors present, to consider the performance of the executive to oversee the companys compliance with directors, to maintain the necessary depth and breadth of knowledge and skills its disclosure obligations and to consider the to ensure the effectiveness of the board as a team.
materiality, accuracy, reliability and timeliness of information disclosed.
The committee also oversees The Chairman maintains effective communication with shareholders and other the delivery of an integrated plan incorporating all stakeholders by meeting with them in person to ensure the board maintains an elements of the year end reporting process, namely the groups preliminary results announcement understanding of the views of major investors and other key stakeholders, whilst and Report and Accounts, the companys AGM, promoting highest standards of corporate governance.
the statutory and regulatory accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited, the Annual Regulatory Senior Independent Non-executive Director Compliance Statement and the Annual Regulatory Martin Lamb replaced Richard Davey as your Senior Independent NonPerformance Report.
executive Director with effect from 23 January 2015.
Martin is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The board has agreed that Martin will act as Chairman of the board in the event that the Chairman is unable to do so for any reason.
The Senior Independent Director supports the Chairman in the delivery of his objectives and ensures that the views of all major shareholders and stakeholders are conveyed to the directors, to help develop an understanding of any key issues and concerns.
He is available to all shareholders should they have any concerns, if the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial officer have failed to resolve them or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director meets with non-executive directors, without the Chairman present, at least annually, and taking into account the views of the executive directors, leads the non-executive directors in the ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, including communicating the results of such.
Together with the Nominations Committee, he takes responsibility for ensuring that an orderly succession planning process is in place, in relation to both the role of the Chairman and the board in general.
Non-executive directors Your non-executive directors are appointed to the board to contribute their independent external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the group.
Their competencies include corporate finance, including mergers and acquisitions, general finance, corporate strategy, customer care, property, environmental and technology matters, engineering, regulation, general management, transformational change, science, regulatory compliance and supply chain management.
They also provide independent challenge and rigour to the boards deliberations and are encouraged to make independent assessments of the groups competencies.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, meet without the Chairman at least once a year for them to appraise the Chairmans performance and they have other meetings during the year without executive directors present.
As part of the board effectiveness review, the board has reviewed the status of the non-executive directors and considers them all to be independent in character and judgement as dened by the Governance Code.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 54 Governance report continued Chief Executive Formal schedule of matters Responsibility has been delegated to the Chief Executive to develop and reserved for the board implement the groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The The processes in place regarding the boards non-executive directors, led by the Chairman, appraise the Chief Executives tasks and activities and the matters specically reserved for the boards decision making, the performance annually.
Liv Gareld is empowered to take all decisions and role of and the authority delegated to the Chief actions that further the companys strategy and policies and which in her Executive, the accountability of the Chief Executive judgement are reasonable, having regard to the limits which apply to her role as for that authority, and guidance on managing the Chief Executive, as set out in the companys Group Authorisation Arrangements relationship between the board and the Chief GAA.
She will ensure a continual dialogue with the Chairman on the strategic Executive are documented.
In addition to these processes, we have adopted the Severn Trent issues facing the group including forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive Charter of Expectations to ensure best practice issues which may affect the group, of which the Chairman might not be aware.
corporate governance throughout the business.
The Chief Executive is required to promote and conduct the affairs of the group These processes are reviewed annually.
with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
The board has reserved the following for its Executive directors own consideration: The executive directors support the Chief Executive in effectively leading Severn Strategy and Management Trent towards the achievement of its strategic objectives and implement the Structure and Capital strategy decisions taken by the board.
They are committed to doing this in a Financial Reporting and Controls responsible way which takes account of commitment to our Code of Conduct, Internal Controls the long term sustainable and responsible stewardship of the business and the delivery of an outstanding customer experience, the best value service and Contracts and Policies environmental leadership.
This year saw our number of executive directors Board Membership and other appointments, including the appointment of the Chief Executive, reduce from five to two, with Tony Ballance, Martin Kane and Andy Smith directors and the Company Secretary stepping down, allowing for a slimmer board structure.
Remuneration Role of the Company Secretary Delegation of Authority including the Group All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Authorisation Arrangements GAA which sets out the groups delegated approval limits Bronagh Kennedy, and the Company Secretariat team.
Bronagh is responsible The approval or adoption of documents, for ensuring that the board operates in accordance with the governance including the Annual Report and Accounts, framework it has adopted and that there is an effective ow of information required to be made by the board by the to the board and its committees and between senior management and the companys GAA, constitutional documents, non-executive directors.
statute or external regulation The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for consideration by the board as a whole.
Independent advice Directors have access to independent professional advice at the companys expense on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
Terms and conditions of appointment The terms and conditions of appointment of the directors are available for inspection by any person at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours.
They will also be made available before and during the AGM.
Effectiveness Board meetings There are regularly scheduled meetings of the board and of its permanent committees throughout the year and any additional meetings and ad hoc committee meetings are convened as and when required.
Papers, including minutes of board and Executive Committees held since the previous board meeting and performance reports, are circulated approximately a week in advance of each meeting.
There is a documented procedure in place which allows directors to take independent professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
If a director has a concern over any unresolved matter he or she may require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 The chart opposite shows how the board has spent its time at scheduled board During the year, seven board meetings were held, meetings.
The boards agenda is normally structured as follows: with the attendance gures of these meetings detailed below.
Standing Items regular reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Director Meetings attended officer on the operational and financial performance of the business, Andrew Duff 7 7 regulatory matters and external affairs and from the Company Secretary on Tony Ballance 6 6 governance issues.
John Coghlan 7 7 Non Standing Items Strategic Discussion Topics and ad hoc matters Richard Davey 6 6 requiring approval, discussion or noting by the board.
Gordon Fryett 7 7 The board monitors the performance of Severn Trent Water Limited and Liv Gareld 7 7 Severn Trent Business Services at every meeting and receives monthly Martin Kane 6 6 updates on performance against the KPIs and ODIs stated on pages 10 and 11 Martin Lamb 7 7 of the Strategic report.
The board also regularly discusses reports on capital Michael McKeon 7 7 efficiency.
The board monitors governance matters and developments in best Baroness Noakes 6 7 practice through the Governance report provided by the Company Secretary, a Andy Smith 6 6 standing item on the board agenda.
The board also formally reviews compliance Dr Angela Strank 7 7 with the Governance Code on an annual basis and reviews conicts and other arising disclosure requirements bi-annually.
John Coghlan was appointed at the May 2014 board meeting.
As part of its annual work plan, the board reviewed and approved all financial Apologies were given by Baroness Noakes at the results announcements, the Annual Report and Accounts, the PR14 Five Year July board meeting.
Baroness Noakes retired Plan and dividend payments and all changes to the composition of the board and following the July 2014 meeting.
The above gures take into account board changes detailed in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Board Strategy Day and Preparation for PR14 In addition to formal meetings, the board attended a full day strategy session in November 2014, where the board and Executive Committee together considered Board activities by % 2014 15 the areas of future value creation across the Severn Trent group.
Key areas of discussions included the delivery model for AMP6, developments following Finance 13.2% recent legislative changes in the Water Act 2014 and how the company should Strategy 44% respond, innovation and external matters impacting the company and its Governance 13% strategic options for future growth.
Performance 21% Other 8.8% Board committees The four permanent committees of the board assist in the execution of its responsibilities and the board has delegated some of its responsibilities to those board committees.
The committees assist the board by fullling their roles and responsibilities, focusing on their specic activities, reporting to the board on decisions and actions taken, and making any necessary recommendations in Board committee meetings 2014 15 line with their terms of reference.
The effectiveness of each of the committees There were three committee meetings of has been reviewed during the year as part of the externally facilitated board the board convened throughout the year to review.
The terms of reference of each committee have also been updated to consider such matters as Severn Trent Plcs take account of best practice as part of their annual review.
preliminary and interim results and interim management statements.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees comply with the provisions of the Governance Code, except as reported on page 47, and are available for inspection, together with the terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, on our website www.
com or may be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Reports from the Chairs of these committees are set out on pages 61 to 65 and69 to 85 of this report.
Treasury Committee In March 2015 the board approved the establishment of a new permanent committee of the board, the Treasury Committee, to provide oversight of treasury activities in implementing the policies and the funding and treasury risk management plan approved by the board, including inter alia: the measurement and management of interest rate, funding, counterparty credit, liquidity and operational risks: funding proposals: relationship with rating agencies: debt investor relations: bank relationship management and treasury internal controls.
The committee will review and approve the Group Treasury Policy Statements, at least annually, and present an annual report to the board in relation to its activities.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56 Governance report continued Training and development Induction On joining the board, a directors induction needs are evaluated and then they are provided with a comprehensive and personalised induction pack which includes information on our business, key operations and processes, how we are regulated, how we are shaping future regulation, strategic plans, financial reports, business plans and information on our governance framework and directors roles and responsibilities and legal and regulatory duties.
Meetings are arranged with members of the executive management team and with external advisors who provide support to the relevant board committees on which the directors may serve.
Visits to operational and ofce sites across the group and management presentations are also arranged for directors joining the board and subsequently throughout the year.
These arrangements have been followed for the induction of James Bowling, prior to him joining the board on 1 April 2015, and John Coghlan following his appointment to the board on 23 May 2014.
Directors resource library An online directors resource library and Continuing Professional Development CPD repository has been created for use by the directors, which is subject to periodic reviews and updates where appropriate.
The library includes a Corporate Governance Manual, a Results Centre and Investor Relations section, Strategy Day materials and details of board training sessions.
It also includes a further reading section which contains regular updates and guidance on changes to legislation and best practice.
Continuing Professional Development All directors receive updates throughout the year on matters such as changes to best practice governance guidelines.
The directors also have access to professional development provided by external bodies and our advisors.
CPD requirements were considered, through individual review meetings between the Chairman and each director, as part of the board effectiveness review in 2014 15 and remain an integral part of the development of our directors.
Board Effectiveness Review The effectiveness of the board is reviewed annually and an independent externally facilitated review of the effectiveness of the board is conducted every three years.
The board therefore conducted an externally facilitated board effectiveness evaluation this year, the last having taken place in November 2011.
In September 2014 a range of potential providers were identied and it was agreed that the evaluation exercise should be facilitated by Manchester Square Partners MSP.
MSP has no other connection with the company.
MSP provided a questionnaire to explore the boards approach to:- Strategy Challenges and risks Values and culture Role of the board, board dynamics and engagement Structure of the board, its composition and succession planning Governance and leadership This was supplemented by a review of historic board papers and individual face-to-face interviews with all board directors, the former Senior Independent Director, Richard Davey and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman also discussed the contribution of directors with each of them in person and the Senior Independent Director conducted an evaluation of the Chairman with the assistance of the non-executive directors.
The subsequent report prepared by MSP was discussed by the Nominations Committee in its consideration of the re-election of directors and it was also the subject of a presentation to the board.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 The report concluded that:- Code of Conduct principles Working relationships: There was a strong level of consistency on the key purpose, role and focus Keeping everyone healthy and safe areas for the board, which was hard working, fully committed and engaged.
Supporting employees rights and diversity There was a real openness and quality of debate at board meetings.
Personal and business integrity Board structures and processes were efficient, effective and thorough.
Maintaining ethical and honest behaviour Committees were well chaired, operating well and had good linkage to the board.
Staying free from bribery and corruption Keeping our communications open Areas for further focus were:- and responsible Delivering excellent customer service Allocation of agenda time to agreed key strategic priorities.
Our place in the world Mentoring, talent management and succession planning below Executive Working within the community Committee level.
Protecting our environment Standing up for whats right Enhance KPIs to reect risks and operational performance against new AMP6 In all our hands Regulatory Requirements.
Doing the right thing the Severn Trent way details the principles we work by.
You can view our Code of Accountability Conduct by visiting: Code of Conduct: Doing the right thing The Severn Trent way http: www.
com about-us corporategovernance code-of-conduct Every day Severn Trent employees have to make choices about what they do and how they do it.
Most of the time it is clear what the right thing to do is, whether it is about doing what is safe, doing the right thing for customers, doing what is right ethically, and indeed what is right legally.
However, sometimes it is not so clear.
Doing the right thing The Severn Trent way details the principles we work by.
This is our Code of Conduct and explains who we are, what we stand for and how we work.
It also tells our customers, investors and business partners that they can trust and rely on us.
These principles apply to everyone in Severn Trents businesses, no matter where in the world they are based or what they do.
They provide a common and consistent framework for responsible business practices and set out the standards we need to follow in our day-to-day activities.
During the year we have continued to roll out the Code of Conduct across the group to make sure that everyone in the business understands what it is all about and upholds our ethical standards.
All employees are provided with a copy in their local language as part of their induction.
Training sessions are made available and all teams have been encouraged to discuss it through regular communication exercises.
We have also continued to roll out our Code of Conduct into our supply chain, as explained in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 66 to 68.
Policies The Code of Conduct is supported by our group policies and our behaviours model.
Further details of these can be found on our website www.
During the year, we have completed the annual review of the policies and our behaviours model to ensure they are t for purpose.
Independence The board considers each of the non-executive directors, seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, to be independent in character and judgement.
Interests No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of signicance with the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Conicts of interest The board has a full documented process in place to authorise situational conicts in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and under the Companys Articles of Association.
An annual review of conicts is carried out with a simultaneous review of the Severn Trent Gifts and Hospitality Register, and is incorporated into the year end process of verifying directors interests.
Half yearly reports are also made to the board of all directors conicts and directors are reminded of their obligations to disclose any potential conicts.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 58 Governance report continued At the beginning of every board meeting there is a standing agenda item to consider and discuss whether any potential conict exists.
If it does then the relevant director does not attend the meeting when that item is discussed.
During the 2014 15 financial year, the Nominations Committee discussed the proposed management of the situational conict created by Martin Lambs Chairmanship of Evoqua Water Technologies.
Given the benets of Martin Lambs valuable contribution to the board as a recently retired Chief Executive and the relative insignicance of the Business Services Water Purication business WP in the context of the group as a whole, the committee considered that it could recommend authorisation of the conict and the proposed means of management by the board, provided such was made transparent and kept under regular review to ensure that the boards effectiveness was not compromised.
The management of the conict through redaction of papers and his absence from discussions on WP specic matters was also adopted by the Audit Committee in relation to his membership of such, in March 2015.
With the disposal of the Water Purication business, which was announced on 13 May 2015, this will no longer be necessary.
Relations with shareholders Retail shareholder engagement strategy The board has an active shareholder engagement strategy, the main elements of which are set out below.
The Annual Report and Accounts is the principal means of communicating with shareholders.
The group has adopted e-communications as an alternative method of sending company information.
In March 2015 shareholders were reconsulted as to their preferred method of receiving company communications.
Following the consultation 54,417 shareholders 88% receive conrmation that the Annual Report is available to view online, whilst 7,494 21% continue to receive a hard copy.
com contains an archive of annual reports together with other information relevant to investors.
This includes comprehensive share price information, financial results, company news and financial calendars.
The company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details of the DRIP are available on our website and the website of Equiniti, our registrar.
Institutional shareholders and analysts The board recognises the importance of representing and promoting the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the company and various mechanisms have been put in place to ensure it remains in touch with key activities and developments, including: Monthly update of the key shareholder engagement activities carried out by the Executive Committee and the Investor Relations team: A monthly report, provided by Makinson Cowell, of our shareholder register, outlining the significant buyers and sellers of Severn Trent shares: and Regular summaries of sector research notes, allowing shareholders to understand the key opinions being communicated to investors by analysts.
Presentations are made to shareholders and analysts following the release of the interim and year end results.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer regularly meet shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and Martin Lamb, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, have also met with shareholders separately from executive directors in March 2015.
All major shareholders were offered a meeting and those who requested one were accommodated.
The Chairman and Martin Lamb were available to meet shareholders at their request throughout the year.
The board receives written feedback from Makinson Cowell following meetings with institutional shareholders andmonitors shareholder activity on a quarterly basis at its meetings.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Communication with institutional shareholders and the market We are committed to serving the needs of our institutional investors andhave an extensive programme of events designed to give them access to key senior The culture of the management and our Investor Relations team.
The following table summarises some of the main events of our engagement programme during 2014 15. organisation is one The events were usually attended by the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer and the Investor Relations team and comprised roadshows in the that is willing to listen regions where our key investors are situated, such as the UK, Europe and and to engage they North America, as well as various conferences to meet with a wide range of institutional investors.
In addition to these events, the Chief Executive, the Chief are available if you Financial officer and the Investor Relations team also attended numerous ad hoc meetings with key investors over the courseof the year.
Events in 2014 15 Feedback from an institutional investor May June London Roadshow June Bank of America Merrill Lynch Utilities Conference June Brean Capital Global Resources and Infrastructure Conference June Germany Switzerland Roadshow June North American Roadshow July Private Client Roadshow London July Edinburgh Roadshow September Morgan Stanley Power & Utility Summit September Private Client Roadshow London September Credit Suisse UK Utility Reverse Roadshow November London Roadshow February Dividend Roadshow March North American Roadshow March Capital Markets Day Our conversations with investors during 2014 15 have inevitably focused largely on Ofwats PR14 review process and the associated implications of such for Severn Trent.
Key concerns for investors included the changes to the weighted average cost of capital, the introduction of Totex and ODIs, opportunities around our capital structure and discussions with Ofwat regarding our proposed investment in the Elan Valley Aqueduct.
Other key areas of interest for investors have been the Water Bill and the upcoming changes to the regulatory framework, including water trading and the potential for future mergers, as well as the appointment of the new Chief Executive, Liv Gareld, and her plans for the business.
During the year, the Investor Relations section of the Severn Trent Plc website was updated.
The aim of this was to improve navigation around the different areas, make it more intuitive and easier for investors to nd the information they were looking for, as well as providing additional content.
Capital Markets Day A key event in our timetable this year was our Capital Markets Day, held on 17 March 2015.
This followed the receipt of our Final Determination on 12 December 2014, which set out Severn Trent Water Limiteds allowed returns, expenditure and performance commitments for the next five year period from 20152020 AMP 6 and the subsequent announcement of our dividend policy.
The purpose of the day was to set out our strategy for the next five years and outline the plans being put in place to enable us to meet the requirements set out in our Final Determination.
On the day, 70 of our key investors and analysts travelled to Severn Trent Centre in Coventry.
The days agenda included presentations from key management personnel, covering nancials, operational performance, regulatory reform and our customer focus, as well as demonstrations of some of the key initiatives being implemented, such as the roll out of new digital devices to employees in the eld.
The day concluded with site tours of two strategically important sites, Minworth Sewage Treatment Works and our recently opened food waste digestion plant in Coleshill.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 60 Governance report continued Customer engagement Members of the Water Forum As PR14 reached its concluding stages this year, we continued to engage Members of the Water Forum comprise those with the Severn Trent Water Forum.
The Forum is a multistakeholder group, with a statutory remit or key interest in the independently chaired by Professor Bernard Crump of Consumer Council for water industry.
Water, established to challenge the development of Severn Trent Water Limiteds The Water Forum is made up of nine organisations who represent our customers or have a stake in business plan for 20152020 to ensure that it takes into account our customers what we do.
Membership is currently under review.
Members of the Forum comprise those with a statutory remit or key interest in the water industry.
The Forum is made up of nine organisations who Organisation represent our customers or have a stake in what we do.
CBI West Midlands The Forum met six times over the course of the year and discussed a range of Natural England issues including: our proposals to improve the resilience of water supplies to National Farmers Union Birmingham: the development of an expanded range of support for customers who Citizens Advice Bureau Coventry are struggling to pay: and our proposals to improve river water quality in our region.
East Midlands Councils Environment Agency The Forum submitted two reports to Ofwat during the year setting out its independent views of these and other issues.
Both reports are available at Drinking Water Inspectorate severntrent.
Scottish and Southern Energy Consumer Council for Water Following Severn Trent Water Limiteds acceptance on 28 January 2015 of the Ofwat Final Determination, the role and membership of the Forum during AMP6 is under review.
Voice of the Customer programme We take seriously the voice of every individual customer.
We have launched a new SMS text survey so that all customers that contact us are sent a survey by text for them to rate how we performed.
This may relate to a call to our contact centre or an incident in the eld.
By listening to what our customers say about the service we provide, we are able to give real time insights to our agents in the contact centre and also to our colleagues in the eld.
We then call back every customer who scores us 1, 2 or 3 out of 5 for our service 1 being low, 5 being high.
By doing this we can seek to understand the reason for the score, the situation that the customer is experiencing and resolve it for them.
Our resolutions team who conduct these calls also look at the root cause and make sustainable changes to our business.
Looking ahead to 2015 16 Looking forward to 2015 16, we expect to see our extensive programme of investor events continuing.
The early part of the year will be dominated by the start of the new regulatory period, with investors keen to understand how well our plans and strategy are being implemented as well as how well we are performing under the revised regulatory regime.
The departure of our former Chief Financial Officer, Michael McKeon, and the appointment of James Bowling on 1 April 2015 to replace him, will also be of key interest to our investors.
Our programme of roadshows is expected to be maintained, and we intend to continue to visit our key investors in Europe and North America, as well as those in the UK.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the company will be held at the International Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am on Wednesday 15 July 2015.
Presentations are made on the groups activities and performance during VIEW ONLINE the year prior to the formal business of the meeting.
The Chairs of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, together Our online Annual Report with all other directors, attend the AGM.
and Accounts Easier, greener and only a click away.
The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to feed back to the company on performance, management and the way we work in a very direct fashion, Were always looking to make life easier.
through the questions they ask.
Shareholders often also meet informally with Our online Annual Report is designed to help directors and senior management before and after the meeting.
you read the information that matters to you, wherever you may be, whether on the move The board encourages shareholders to attend the companys AGM and to or at your desktop.
It reduces our paper exercise their right to vote.
The notice of meeting and related papers are sent to use too, which is kinder to the environment.
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions We hope you like it.
are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
The poll results from the www.
com AR2015 2015 AGM will be made available on our website after the meeting.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Nominations Committee Andrew Duff The committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conicts of interest, including the time available to commit to their duties to the company.
The results of these reviews are important when the board considers succession planning, the effectiveness of the board and its committees and the election and reappointment of directors.
Members of the committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
The members of the committee in 2014 15 were the non-executive directors of the board.
Liv Gareld stepped down as a member as of October 2014, and Richard Davey retired as director as at 23 January 2015.
In accordance with the Governance Code, the succession planning and searches in respect of the appointments of Liv Gareld, effective 11 April 2014, and John Coghlan, effective 23 May 2014, during the year under review, were disclosed in the Nominations Committee Report in the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014.
The committee initiated a process to search for a new Chief Financial officer following Michael McKeons indication to the board of his desire to retire.
Russell Reynolds was appointed as an advisor and was provided with a role Andrew Duff specication and a detailed brief of the desired candidate prole.
The committee Chairman of the considered a list of potential candidates and those shortlisted were interviewed Nominations Committee by members of the board.
Michael McKeon took no part in any meetings relating to his succession.
This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work Following this process, the board accepted the committees recommendation it has undertaken during the year.
The main that James Bowling join the board as Chief Financial officer with effect from purpose of the committee is to assist the 1 April 2015. board by keeping the composition of the In accordance with the requirements of the Governance Code, all members of board under proactive review and conducting the board will seek election or re-election at the AGM on 15 July 2015.
In April a rigorous and transparent process when 2015, the committee formally reviewed the performance, contribution and making or renewing appointments of commitment of each of the directors retiring at this years AGM and seeking directors to the board.
It also advises the reappointment, and supported and recommended their reappointment to the board on issues of directors conicts of board.
The committee confirmed that each director continues to perform well, interest and independence matters that on both an individual and collective basis, making a valuable contribution to the may arise.
The full terms of reference for boards deliberations and demonstrating commitment to the long term interests the committee can be found on our website of the company.
com and are also available from the Company Secretary.
The committee also supported and recommended the election of the newly appointed directors, as detailed on page 50.
The appointment of these new executive and non-executive directors brings a wealth of new skills and Succession planning experience to the board and benets from a significant investment of the When considering new appointments to the board, committee in planning and executing the succession process.
the committee oversees the preparation of a role specication that is provided to an independent Diversity recruitment organisation retained to conduct a Further to the publication of the Davies Report, Women on Boards, in February global search.
In addition to the specic skills, 2011 and its third annual progress report in March 2014, boards of FTSE 350 knowledge and experience deemed necessary, the specication contains criteria such as: companies have been encouraged to promote greater female representation a proven track record of creating on corporate boards.
Guidance from the Financial Reporting Council has also shareholder value: highlighted the importance of greater diversity of psychological prole around unquestioned integrity and a diversity of the board table.
Severn Trent has recently developed a Board Diversity Policy psychological mindset: and recognises the importance of diversity in its broadest sense throughout a commitment to the highest standards its organisation, including that of the board.
25% of the board are now women, of governance: including the Chief Executive.
Even more importantly, over 50% of the Executive having the required time available to devote Committee are now women.
However, Severn Trent is committed to increasing to the job: diversity at all levels of the company in all respects and not just gender.
a strategic mindset, an awareness of market leadership and outstanding monitoring skills: As stated above, the Nominations Committee reviews the board effectiveness a preparedness to question, challenge and and composition each year and, in particular, considers the balance of skills, openly assess: and experience and independence of the board.
It also considers thebenets of all an independent point of view.
aspects of diversity, but without compromise as to thecalibre of directors, when identifying candidates for appointment.
