Corporate governance report Effective corporate governance is integral tothedelivery of Shires strategy.
Dear Shareholder In 2015, the Board of Directors continued to champion the principle of effective governance in pursuit of Shire becoming a world leader in rare diseases and a leading global biotechnology company.
We brought sharp vision to our work: a appointed Senior Independent Director reaffirmed many of the strengths of the commitment to challenging dialogue coupled from the same date.
Bills international Board and its committees and highlighted with a spirit of collaboration and shared business, Board and leadership experience areas where performance could be further values.
Three new Board members were makes him particularly well-suited to this enhanced.
Details on the procedure, appointed during the year: Olivier Bohuon, position, and I am grateful for him conclusions and points of focus can be a Non-Executive Director with international assuming this additional responsibility.
found on pages 67 to 68. business and leadership experience who As a Board our primary purpose is to The past year has been transformative for iscurrently the Chief Executive Officer at provide a balanced perspective on matters Shire.
The Board has overseen the growth Smith & Nephew plc: Sara Mathew, a material to Shires stakeholders.
In doing of the business with multiple strategic Non-Executive Director with financial, so, we do our utmost to promote a culture acquisitions announced and completed, strategic and technological experience of good governance throughout the several successful new product launches, whorecently served as Chairman, organization and to ensure that effective an expansion in global footprint and the President and Chief Executive Officer of internal control and risk management strengthening of our pipeline to be the Dun & Bradstreet, Inc. : and Shires new measures are in place.
Integral to this most robust in Shires history.
These Chief Financial Officer, Jeff Poulton, who workis our continued, active engagement achievements along with many others have brings his financial, commercial and with Shire leaders, teams and individual contributed to Shires increased dynamism strategic acumen to the Board having held employees.
In 2015 we took the time to and are in support of a culture where the various finance and operational leadership meet with these groups in multiple delivery of excellence is rewarded.
Each of these locations: to ask questions, to listen and appointments has broadened the Boards Looking ahead to 2016, the Board and I will tounderstand emerging opportunities.
perspective as we work with management continue to focus on the rigorous oversight to plan for Shires future.
The Board remains committed to the of the Company and on investment in our promotion of diversity in all of the Companys four strategic drivers of growth, innovation, I would also like to thank David Kappler recruitment practices.
That commitment efficiency and people.
forhis significant contribution and service isreflected in the Board Diversity Policy.
to Shire during his extended tenure.
As We continue to heighten our emphasis on announced, David will be stepping down as succession planning andtalent management: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent developing new policies and opportunities Director following the conclusion of the within Shires performance-based culture.
Bill Burns, In 2015, the Board underwent an externally Non-Executive Director and member of facilitated performance evaluation.
This various Board committees, is to be Susan Kilsby Chairman 64 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information UK Corporate Governance Code Division of responsibilities Deputy Chairman This report seeks to demonstrate how The Board comprises the Chairman, eight The Deputy Chairman is responsible themain principles of the UK Corporate other Non-Executive Directors, the Chief forproviding support and guidance to Governance Code 2014 the Governance Executive Officer and the Chief Financial theChairman: deputizing as required.
Code were applied throughout the Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer, together Inaddition, in the absence of the Chairman financial year ended December 31, 2015. with the Executive Committee, is responsible the Deputy Chairman holds the casting The Board is of the opinion that, during for business operations.
The Non-Executive vote in the case of an equality of votes.
thisperiod, the Company complied with Directors are charged with exercising Senior Independent Director the provisions of the Governance Code.
independent judgment during Board The Senior Independent Director is Published by the Financial Reporting deliberation and ensuring the effective responsible for providing a sounding board Council, the Governance Code is publicly performance of members of management.
for the Chairman and for serving as a available at www.
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
Leadership Independent Director and Chief Executive In addition, the Senior Independent Role of the Board Officer have distinctly different roles which Director is responsible for leading meetings The principal purpose of the Board is to are defined in writing and approved by the of the Non-Executive Directors in the provide leadership to the Company in a Board.
These are summarized as follows: absence of the Chairman and for consulting manner that promotes its long term with shareholders when communication Chairman success, thereby maximizing value for its with the Chairman or Chief Executive The Chairmans primary responsibility is to shareholders and other stakeholders.
provide leadership to the Board: ensuring TheBoard is responsible for determining its effective operation.
This is achieved in Chief Executive Officer the Groups strategy as well as overseeing part through the promotion of an open and The principal responsibility of the Chief its implementation by management.
In engaged culture that facilitates constructive Executive Officer is to manage Shires addition, the Board has oversight of all dialogue both with management and in day-to-day business.
Having regard for the material matters impacting the Company executive sessions of the Board.
The strategy, risk profile, objectives and policies and its operations including key policies, Chairman is also responsible for ensuring set forth by the Board and its committees, significant financial matters and effective communications between the the Chief Executive Officer is accountable acquisitions, the principal risks that the Board and shareholders.
to the Board for the development of the Company faces and associated mitigation Company and its operations.
Full details of the aforementioned roles andresponsibilities can be found on the Companys website.
Oversight of organizational developments Review of the Board Reserve Powers Key activities including the relocation of over 500 and Board committees terms of The principal activities of the Board during positions from the Companys reference.
the year were: Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania site to Participation in an externally facilitated Shires US Operational Headquarters in Board performance evaluation.
Consideration of the announced Review of Litigation, Tax, Cyber Review of technical operations and combination with Baxalta, Inc. to create Securityand Health, Safety & supply chain capabilities and investment the global leader in rare diseases.
Review of the Companys long range Risk management and internalcontrols plan, its standalone $10billion product Governance A robust assessment of the principal sales by 2020 target and its aspiration of Consideration of investor feedback, with risks facing the Company.
realizing $20billion in annual revenues there being a high level of engagement Ongoing monitoring and review of the by2020 assuming completion of the regarding M&A transactions and Companys risk management and announced combination with Baxalta, Inc. executive remuneration.
Review of material M&A and in-licensing Review of the Companys full-year transactions including the acquisitions of Succession planning results, quarterly earnings releases, key NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Meritage The search for, and subsequent financial reports and earnings guidance.
Pharma, Inc. Foresight Biotherapetuics, appointment of, a new Chief Financial Review of the Groups annual budget Inc. and Dyax Corp. as well as postOfficer.
investment reviews concerning Ongoing review of Board composition Review of business unit performance completed transactions.
resulting with the appointment of and ongoing product development.
Senior management succession planning and talent assessment.
Shire Annual Report 2015 65 Corporate governance report continued Board operation Board effectiveness During the year the Board met frequently in order to discharge its duties.
Six scheduled Effective leadership is integral to the Board meetings took place during 2015 of which five were held face-to-face over two-day execution of the Companys strategy and periods alongside Board committee meetings.
In addition, six ad hoc meetings were held therefore to the fulfillment of its objectives.
The Board is committed to ensuring the Company operates in accordance with the highest standards of governance in order Scheduled to promote its success for the benefit of Date of meeting Ad hoc meeting 1 allstakeholders.
Board member appointment attendance attendance 2 Susan Kilsby September 1, 2011 6 6 6 6 Composition and diversity The Board has reviewed the independence Flemming Ornskov January 2, 2013 6 6 6 6 3 of the Non-Executive Directors, other than Jeff Poulton April 29, 2015 4 4 4 4 the Chairman, in accordance with the David Kappler April 5, 2004 6 6 5 6 factors set forth for consideration in the Dominic Blakemore January 1, 2014 6 6 4 6 Governance Code and determined that Olivier Bohuon July 1, 2015 3 3 2 3 each individual seeking election re-election William Burns March 15, 2010 6 6 6 6 continues to be independent in character Steven Gillis October 1, 2012 6 6 6 6 and judgement.
In addition, the Board regards each of its members as possessing David Ginsburg June 16, 2010 6 6 6 6 the skills, knowledge and experience Sara Mathew September 1, 2015 2 2 2 2 necessary for it to function effectively.
Anne Minto June 16, 2010 6 6 6 6 Board members biographical information 4 David Stout October 31, 2009 April 28, 2015 1 1 0 2 can be found on pages 62 to 63.
Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Board members were eligible to attend.
1 The Board recognizes the inherent value Ad hoc meetings were held at short notice and timed to facilitate maximum possible Board attendance.
2 ofdiversity at all levels within the Group and Susan Kilsby served as an independent Non-Executive Director prior to her appointment as Chairman onApril 29, 2014. is therefore committed to its furtherance.
3 Jeff Poulton served as Interim Chief Financial Officer from January 1, 2015, prior to his appointment as Shires Board Diversity Policy acknowledges Chief Financial Officer on April 29, 2015.
Whilst serving on an interim basis, Mr. Poulton attended all that the Company, its shareholders and Boardmeetings.
other stakeholders are best served by a 4 David Stout was excused from participating in the two ad hoc meetings he was eligible to attend on the Board diverse in skill, experience and basis of his then-impending retirement from the Board.
The principles Only members of the Board are entitled to following which a meeting of the Nonof the policy are taken into account by both attend Board meetings, however, during Executive Directors led by the Senior the Board and the Nomination Committee the year the following additional individuals Independent Director is held in the absence in their consideration of potential Board regularly attended by invitation: of the Chairman.
Matters considered by the members, with its diversity-endorsing Board are those reserved for their values reflected in recruitment policies in Attendee judgment and decision, as defined in the effect throughout the Group.
Additional General Counsel and Company Board Reserve Powers, although disclosure relating to diversity within Shire Secretary including interim supplementary matters are considered is made on page 32. appointee bythe Board as circumstances require.
Appointments Head of Corporate Development The Board Reserve Powers are available The Board may appoint any individual Chief Human Resources Officer on the Companys website.
asaDirector either to fill a vacancy or Head of Research and Development The agenda for Board meetings is asanadditional member of the Board.
Head of Clinical Development determined by the Chairman in Theprocess for new appointments is led Group Financial Controller collaboration with the Chief Executive by the Nomination Committee procedural Head of Treasury and Insurance Officer and the Company Secretary.
details are available on page 73 which Head of Tax TheChairman also has the responsibility ultimately makes a recommendation to Head of Transactions ofensuring that all necessary information theBoard.
Chief Compliance and Risk Officer isprovided to the Board in a timely manner, Head of Communications and Appointments may be made by the Board in respect of which she is supported by PublicAffairs at any time subject to subsequent election theCompany Secretary and other members and annual re-election by the Companys of management, and that sufficient time shareholders.
With the exception of ismade available at meetings for the DavidKappler, all of the Directors are consideration of individual agenda items.
External professional advisors also seeking election or re-election at the The Chairman encourages discussion with attended meetings when necessary.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on a view to achieving resolution by conclusion of scheduled Board meetings it April28, 2016.
If this is unable to be achieved, is customary for the Non-Executive Executive Director terms of appointment decisions are to be taken by majority vote, Directors to meet without Executive and Executive Director service contracts with the Chairman having a casting vote Directors or management present, will be made available for inspection inthe case of an equality of votes.
66 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Commitment Chief Financial Officer In addition, the Chairman, supported by the Prior to appointment, each Non-Executive Jeff Poulton has served Shire for Company Secretary, ensures that effective Director is required to disclose to the Board many years in various finance and channels of communication exist between their other significant commitments so as leadership positions and is therefore the Board, its committees and the to enable an assessment of their capacity familiar with the Companys Companys management.
to effectively discharge their anticipated operations and strategy.
Induction Board performance evaluation duties and responsibilities.
The Board in activities undertaken as a result of 2014 progress turn is informed by each Non-Executive his Board appointment have focused In considering the results of the 2014 Director of any changes to their other on the responsibilities associated internal evaluation and how effectiveness significant commitments.
Each Nonwith serving as a director of a global, might be improved, the Board agreed that Executive Director has undertaken that listed company.
greater emphasis would be placed on they are able to meet the time commitment Non-Executive Directors succession planning and talent management expected of them, which was duly As newly appointed Board members, in 2015.
To this end, during the year communicated by the Board prior to Olivier Bohuon and SaraMathew theBoard sought to ensure sufficient appointment.
As part of the externally have each undertaken induction replenishment amongst its members facilitated Board performance evaluation, meetings with members of Shires suchthat its collective skill and experience feedback was provided to the Chairman Executive Committee and other greater supports the delivery of the inrespect of individual Board members.
A new Executive Itwas concluded that each of the Directors Mr. Bohuon participated in an Director and two new Non-Executive evidenced continued effective performance orientation visit to Shires International Directors were appointed: each bringing and commitment to their role.
Operational Headquarters in Zug as valuable qualities to the Board and providing Conflicts of interest well as a further sales integration a broader perspective to its deliberations.
Directors are required to seek consent visit, whilst Ms. Mathew undertook Moreover, succession plans were put in fromthe Board prior to being appointed to, an in-depth exercise concerning place concerning the appointment of a or acquiring any material financial interest executive remuneration processes newSenior Independent Director and in, any enterprise which competes, is likely and regulations.
Further induction consideration was had as to the skills and to compete or has a significant business activities will be made available to experience sought in future potential relationship with the Company.
In addition, both Directors: typically coinciding Boardappointees.
Further details regarding Directors are required to disclose the with scheduled Board meetings.
succession planning can be found in the nature and extent of any interest they Nomination Committee Report on page73.
have, whether direct or indirect, in any 2015 procedure, conclusions and points transaction entered into, or proposed to be offocus entered into, by the Group which conflicts, In addition to undergoing an initial The 2015 Board performance evaluation or may conflict, with the Companys induction, on an annual basis each was externally facilitated by Ffion Hague interests.
Such disclosures are made at the Directordiscusses with the Chairman ofIndependent Board Evaluation.
Neither first Board meeting at which the transaction theirindividual development requirements Ms. Hague nor Independent Board is considered after the Director concerned with a view to ensuring their skills, Evaluation have any other connection becomes aware of the conflict of interest, knowledge and experience are regularly withthe Company.
The evaluation was or potential conflict, following which the refreshed, and that their familiarity with conducted in accordance with the principles Director abstains from all associated theCompanys business is maintained.
of theGovernance Code and therefore discussion and voting.
Astanding schedule of training topics considered the balance of skills, experience, enables directors to undertake, as required, Induction and development independence and knowledge of the detailed development initiatives focused Upon appointment to the Board all Directors Company on the Board, its diversity, including onmatters specific to the Company and undergo a formal induction program gender, its general cohesion and other itsoperating environment.
tailored to their individual skills, knowledge factors relevant to its effectiveness.
The purpose of such a byMs.
Hague, the evaluation comprised: Information and support program is to facilitate each Directors The Chairman, in collaboration with the Observations of Board and familiarization with the Companys business, Company Secretary and management, committeemeetings strategy and governance structure, as well isresponsible for ensuring that Board Detailed interviews, on an individual as their own duties and responsibilities.
members are provided at all times with the basis, with the Directors, members of Induction activities undertaken during the information necessary for them to effectively management, the external audit partner year are as follows: discharge their duties and responsibilities.
and third-party advisors Before decisions are takenat Board Consideration of information provided to meetings, consideration ishad asto the directors in support of the undertaking adequacy of the information available to oftheir duties, including specific theBoard: enabling the deferral of decision resource materials and briefing packs making if necessary.
Directors areable toseek clarification, additional information or professional advice necessary to the fulfillment of their duties and responsibilities from across the business, from the Company Secretary orfrom independent sources at the Companys expense.
Shire Annual Report 2015 67 Corporate governance report continued A report detailing analysis and Risk management and internal controls identification, assessment and mitigation of recommendations was subsequently relating to financial reporting the Companys principal risks: enabling the compiled with conclusions discussed with The Groups internal control program related Board to continually evaluate whether the the Chairman and then the Board as a to financial reporting ICPFR is aligned risk management and internal control whole.
In drafting the report the evaluation with the COSO Framework.
It comprises systems remain appropriate.
team had regard to feedback received on acombination of manual, automated, In addition to its ongoing appraisal, the matters specific to the operation of the preventative and detective controls, as well Board is responsible for undertaking an Board and its committees including as underlying IT controls for key financial annual review of the effectiveness of the strategy and risk management, governance systems, which are documented, tested Companys risk management and internal and compliance, succession planning and and reported on throughout the year.
This is achieved through Board composition, culture and other ICPFR takes into account key policies such dedicated discussion during which key pertinent matters.
In addition, Ms. Hague as the Financial Controllers Manual and factors related to the Companys risk provided specific feedback to: the Delegation of Authority matrix, as well management and internal control regime as pervasive entity level controls including Individual committee chairmen on their are considered.
Typically, these include its those relating to integrity and ethical respective committees performance operation and integration, managements values, adherence to codes of conduct and oversight and related reporting, risk The Chairman with respect to the the Boards oversight of internal control tolerance and culture as well as any performance of individual directors and organizational structure.
In addition, on otheraspects pertinent to the affairs of an annual basis the Internal Audit function The Senior Independent Director theCompany.
Moreover, drawing on its develops and executes a risk-based audit concerning the Chairmans performance more-regular discussions and feedback plan covering areas of financial, compliance from the ACR Committee, the Board The overall conclusion drawn from the and operational risk across the various reflects on key matters that have arisen evaluation is that the Board is functioning Group functions and geographic locations.
during the year and the Companys ability well: demonstrating particular strength Results of these audits together with results to respond appropriately to internal and inculture with there existing a positive of ICPFR testing are regularly reviewed external developments as they arise.
dynamic during discussion and debate.
bythe Audit, Compliance & Risk ACR Together, this enables the Board to Individual directors are seen to exhibit a Committee which, along with management, evaluate the principal features of the risk notable commitment to their roles with the assesses the ongoing effectiveness of management and internal control systems, Non-Executive Directors maintaining a theICPFR against the COSO Framework.
consider their composition relative to Shires highlevel of confidence in the Executive In addition, an established process of strategic direction and draw conclusions as Directors and members of management.
escalation enables the ACR Committee to their overall effectiveness.
Following its Inpursuit of optimal effectiveness, the and the Board to review matters material review in respect of the 2015 financial year following areas were recommended for tothe Group on a timely basis as they and the period up to the approval of this Board focus during the forthcoming year: arise.
Based on its ongoing assessment, Annual Report and Accounts, the Board management believes that the ICPFR was Structure and content of Board papers neither identified, nor was advised of, any effective as of December 31, 2015. and presentations deficiencies within the Companys risk Board agenda, objectives and priorities Due to the inherent limitation of internal management and internal control systems controls over financial reporting, material that were considered material to the Group Board induction and development misstatements due to error may not be as a whole.
Further details on Shires risk programs prevented or detected.
Projections of management framework can be found on Accountability anyevaluation of effectiveness for future pages 36 to 37.
Risk management and internal control periods are subject to the risk that controls Going concern The Board retains responsibility for Shires may become inadequate because of The Directors Report covering pages risk management and internal control changes in conditions, or that the degree 1to104 sets out information on the systems which include the processes for of compliance with the policies or financial position of the Group including its identifying, evaluating and managing the procedures may deteriorate.
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing principal risks faced by the Company.
Monitoring and review facilities, its business activities together These systems are developed alongside The Board, supported by the ACR with factors likely to affect future the Companys strategy and in accordance Committee, is responsible for the ongoing development, performance and financial with applicable regulatory guidelines monitoring and review of the Companys position, its objectives, policies and including the Internal Control Integrated risk management and internal control processes for managing capital, its financial Framework 2013, issued by the systems.
At the start of the year the Board risk management objectives, details of its Committeeof Sponsoring Organizations determines how this is to be achieved, hedging activity and its exposures to credit ofthe Treadway Commission COSO including agreeing a scheduled monitoring and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups Framework, and the UK Financial program and identifying those aspects that financial instruments are disclosed in Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk will be overseen, on its behalf, by the ACR Note20 to the consolidated financial Management, Internal Control and Related Committee.
In addition, the Board ensures statements.
The Directors have a Financial and Business Reporting.
Shires that considerations of risk feature within reasonable expectation that the Group risk management and internal control itswider discussions including those hasadequate resources to continue in framework has been in place for the concerning the Companys business operational existence for the foreseeable duration of the financial year covered by, modeland strategy.
Thus, they consider it appropriate and to the date of the approval of, this for reflection on the determination, toadopt the going concern basis of Annual Report and Accounts.
accounting in preparing the annual financialstatements.
68 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Ongoing viability solvency and liquidity under review through the tax-free status of Baxaltas spinoff On an annual basis the Company undertakes regular reporting from its committees, fromBaxter International, Inc. To support a long-range planning exercise the LRP management and from the Groups external the Boards conclusion, the Company as part of its wider strategic review.
The Board continually evaluates conducted extensive due diligence and Stress-testing of the LRP is undertaken the assurance it receives and considers received an unqualified will opinion that through the application of keysensitivities theimpact of significant projects, strategic the combination will not interfere with the related to the Companys principal risks developments and other significant tax-free status of the spinoff.
On the basis and uncertainties as outlined on pages commitments on the Companys risk that the transaction completes as anticipated, 36to47 with a view to determining their profileand ultimately its ongoing viability.
the Boards expectation of the Companys potential impact on the Companys financial ongoing viability remains unchanged.
Having regard to the strategic review, the position and performance.
Analysis of the LRP and the Companys principal risks and Relations with shareholders LRP in conjunction with theBoards robust uncertainties, the Board has a reasonable The Board is committed to maintaining assessment of principal risks, including the expectation that the Company will be open and constructive dialog with realistic availability and likely effectiveness ableto continue in operation and meet its shareholders: helping to ensure common of mitigating actions, underpins the Groups liabilities as they fall due over the four-year awareness and interpretation of strategic planning processes and contributes to the period of its assessment.
In making its objectives, matters of governance and of determination and implementation of the assessment, the Board considered the the Companys performance.
potential effect of key sensitivities, including points of contact for major shareholders For the purpose of assessing ongoing generic competition and the potential are the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief viability the Board considered the Companys failure of key pipeline programs.
The Board Financial Officer and the Companys Investor prospects over a four-year period, consistent also considered as an additional sensitivity Relations team, with the views of investors with the relative focus within the LRP as well the effect of the announced combination communicated to the Board as a whole.
as brand and business planning horizons.
with Baxalta, Inc. including the announced During the year the Group engaged with The Board also keeps the Companys refinancing plans and the likelihood that the shareholders through the below media.
proposed combination would interfere with Meetings with shareholders The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and members of the Investor Relations team engaged with many of Shires major shareholders to receive views on matters material to the Company and its operations.
Such matters included the acquisitions of NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Dyax Corp. and the announced acquisition of Baxalta, Inc. the Companys strategy, financial targets and executive remuneration.
Healthcare conferences Representatives of the Company engaged with shareholders and potential investors at many conferences held throughout the year at which presentations and other reference materials were made available.
Results announcements and presentations The Company communicated its performance to shareholders and analysts through quarterly financial results announcements: each accompanied by an explanatory webcast and Q&A session provided by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
Financial reporting The Company published half and full-year reports and filed quarterly Form 10-Qs and an annual Form 10-K inaccordance with obligations arising from its listing on the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ GlobalSelect Market.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting was held in Dublin on April 28, 2015.
Shareholders were invited to attend and vote on resolutions and also to meet with members of the Board.
Website The Companys website www.
com provides information about the Group and is regularly updated with corporate and regulatory news, IR events, broker forecasts and other information related to the Companys operations.
In addition, investors using portable devices can view Shires dedicated mobile website: www.
com shireplc mobile Investor relations The Groups Investor Relations department regularly responds to shareholder communications through its dedicated inbox: InvestorRelations@shire.
com Corporate responsibility reports The Companys website has a dedicated Responsibility section which is regularly updated with andengagement programs, policies and activities.
Digital application Shires IR Briefcase application is regularly updated with news and presentations and provides access to the Companys latest Annual Report and Accounts.
Shire Annual Report 2015 69 Corporate governance report continued Committee meetings held during the year Board committees Audit, Compliance & typically coincided with key dates in the RiskCommittee So as to ensure effective oversight and Groups financial reporting cycle, with the control over the Groups operations, the following additional individuals regularly Board has constituted the Audit, attending at the invitation of the Committee Compliance & Risk Committee, the Chairman: Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Science & Technology Attendee Committee and the Executive Committee, Chairman of the Board each of which has been delegated specific Other Non-Executive Directors authorities.
The Board committees terms Chief Executive Officer of reference, which are subject to annual Chief Financial Officer including review and approval by the Board, are whilst serving on an interim basis available on the Companys website, with General Counsel and Dominic Blakemore further detail as to their operation and CompanySecretary Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk activities presented in the following reports.
 Committee Head of Corporate Development Membership and meetings Group Financial Controller As at the year end the Audit, Compliance & Chief Compliance and Risk Officer Risk Committee comprised four Head of Internal Audit independent Non-Executive Directors: Head of Treasury and Insurance each chosen for their knowledge and External audit partner Audit, experience of financial matters, financial Compliance reporting, risk management and internal & Risk control.
The Board is satisfied that at least Committee one member of the Committee has recent So as to facilitate open and unreserved and relevant financial experience in Nomination discussion, it is the Committees practice accordance with the requirements of the Committee toset aside time for its private deliberation, Governance Code.
with time also reserved for private discussion with each of the Groups external audit Date of Meeting Board of partner, Head of Internal Audit and Chief Committee member appointment attendance Compliance and Risk Officer.
Directors 1 Science & Dominic Blakemore Jan 1, 2014 5 5 Technology 2 Steven Gillis Dec 3, 2014 5 5 Committee David Kappler Apr 5, 2004 5 5 3 Sara Mathew Sept 1, 2015 1 2 Dec 8, 2009 Executive 4 Remuneration David Stout Apr 28, 2015 1 2 Committee Committee Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Committee members were eligible to attend.
1 Dominic Blakemore served as a member of the Committee prior to his appointment as Committee Chairman on April 29, 2014.
2 Steven Gillis served as an interim member of theCommittee prior to his appointment on December3, 2015.
3 Sara Mathew was absent from one meeting due toexternal commitments agreed in advance by the Board.
4 David Stout was excused from participating in onemeeting on the basis of his then-impending retirement from the Committee.
70 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Role of the Committee accounting for sales deductions and Committee activities The purpose of the Committee is to rebates and the key judgments and The Committees activities during the oversee Shires accounting and financial estimates applied by the Company in yearincluded: reporting processes, the audits of its calculating the liability recorded in the Financial reporting financial statements and the effectiveness balance sheet for such items.
As an the review of the Companys full-year of the Companys risk management and areaof audit focus Deloitte LLP also results, quarterly earnings releases, key internal control framework.
In doing so, provided regular reporting to the financial reports and earnings guidance theCommittees principal duties are to: Committee in respect of these matters.
the monitoring of the Groups Further information is available in Note 3 ii monitor the integrity of the financial to theconsolidated financial statements.
compliance with its stated Non GAAP reports and statements of the Group accounting policy applied in quarterly accounting for various tax related matters, and, where requested by the Board, earnings releases.
including the level of tax provisions.
advise on whether, taken as a whole, the the review of the Groups treasury Accounting for income tax is underpinned Annual Report and Accounts is fair, policies and ongoing treasury activities.
by a range of judgments further information balanced and understandable.
is available in Notes 3 iii, 25 and 27 to the monitoring of the Groups accounts make recommendations to the Board the consolidated financial statements.
receivable exposure in certain Eurozone onmatters relating to the appointment The Committee addresses these issues, and Latin-American countries and the ofthe external auditor, to determine and and the related accounting and associated risk mitigation activities.
agree the scope of the external audit disclosure, through a range of reporting engagement and to consider findings a review of tax matters impacting from management and Deloitte LLP.
and recommendations arising from the accounting for the Companys intangible external audit process.
External audit assets, the recoverability of intangible monitor and review the integrity and the review of quarterly updates provided assets and the impairments of SHP608 effectiveness of the Groups internal by the external auditor encompassing and SHP625.
The judgments in financial controls and internal control key areas of judgment and risk, audit relationto intangible asset impairments andrisk management systems.
planning, governance updates and other principally related to the assumptions review the Groups strategy for the business-related matters.
underlying the determination of the fair management of key corporate and value of the asset being tested, the final review of the 2014 audit and financial risks.
primarilythe achievability of the long theinitial review of the external auditors termbusiness plan underlying the valuation performance and effectiveness during review the status of the Groups compliance process.
The Committee discussed program to ensure adherence to applicable the 2015 financial year, including a review withmanagement the judgments and of managements assessment of the legal and regulatory standards and to the sensitivities relevant to intangible asset Groups internal policies.
performance and effectiveness of the impairment reviews and Deloitte LLP external auditor.
In addition, the Committee is authorized to provided detailed reporting to the the review and approval of the 2015 investigate any activity included within its Committee.
Further information is Audit Plan and audit fee.
terms of reference and is responsible for available in Note 3 i to the consolidated an assessment of the objectivity and the resolution of any disagreement financial statements.
independence of the external auditor.
between management and the Groups disclosure within the Groups 2014 full-year external auditor regarding financial and 2015 quarterly results announcements Additional matters reporting matters.
The Committee is also compliance and audit updates from the and related financial reports.
permitted to seek any information it Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and accounting for revenue recognition, requires from any employee of the Group, the Head of Internal Audit.
including assessment of the risk relating and any external professional advice at the to overstatement of the US Neuroscience, the renewal terms of the Groups Companys expense, necessary to the Gastrointestinal and Internal Medicine insurance program.
gross revenues, due to the potential for the Groups internal audit program.
Key considerations inventory to be shipped to wholesalers proposed arrangements to provide the The significant issues considered by the which significantly exceeds demand.
As a Group with additional financial flexibility.
Committee during the year in relation to the principal area of audit focus DeloitteLLP financial statements were: the Groups foreign exchange exposure provided detailed reporting to the and hedging strategy.
Committee in respect of these matters.
purchase accounting related to the Further information is available in Note 3 ii the Groups corporate risk schedule, Groups acquisition of NPS to consolidated financial statements.
including consideration of the principal Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Meritage Pharma, risks faced by the Group and the Inc. and Foresight Biotherapeutics, Inc. associated mitigation strategy.
The Committee reviewed and critiqued the critical accounting estimates used External audit inthe purchase price allocations, Independence and objectivity specifically the valuation of acquired The Committee recognizes both the need intangible assets, and satisfied itself that for an objective and independent external these estimates were reasonable and auditor and how such objectivity and appropriately applied.
As a principal independence might be, or appear, areaof audit focus Deloitte LLP provided compromised through the provision of detailed reporting to the Committee non-audit services.
Accordingly, the inrespect of these matters.
Further Committee continues to oversee the information is available in Note 4 to established policy on the provision of theconsolidated financial statements.
non-audit services by the external auditor Shire Annual Report 2015 71 Corporate governance report continued with a view to safeguarding these core independence or objectivity.
The Committee external audit contract out to tender at a attributes.
The policy provides that, considers that, during 2015, the external time that would see the process complete amongst other things, the auditor must auditor was sufficiently robust in dealings in 2020.
This would result with the notprovide a service which: with members of financial management preferred external audit firms appointment and that, in their absence, the external aligning with the end of the incoming audit creates a mutuality of interest.
auditor was transparent and decisive in partners tenure in 2021.
The incumbent places the auditor in a position where dealings with the Committee.
audit partner is scheduled to step down they would audit their own work.
The Committee believes that the Effectiveness proposed timing of audit tender is in the results in the auditor acting as a manager The Committee recognizes the importance best interests of shareholders as it stands or employee of the Company.
of having a high-caliber of audit and as to afford the Company continuity during puts the auditor in role of advocate for such, undertakes an annual assessment theforthcoming years, particularly given the Company.
ofthe effectiveness of the external audit the proposed transaction with Baxalta, Inc. process.
As part of its evaluation, the In addition, the policy prescribes services It should be noted that, despite the Committee drew upon a survey of Committees intention regarding the timing from which the external auditor is explicitly members of financial management which prohibited from providing, and those the of tender, the external auditor is subject to measured the external auditors performance ongoing effectiveness review and that the provision of which has been pre-approved against predetermined critical success by the Committee subject to individual and Committee may choose to put the external factors, designed to facilitate continuing audit contract out to tender at any time aggregate monetary limits.
All proposed and measurable improvement in the services falling outside of the scope of the itconsiders appropriate.
In accordance effectiveness of the external audit process.
with best practice, the Committee policy, or the monetary limits contained The Committee concluded that the therein, must receive pre-approval from the confirmsvoluntary compliance with the criticalsuccess factors had been provisions ofthe Statutory Audit Services Committee or from its Chairman subject to substantially met with there existing a Committee approval at its next scheduled for LargeCompanies Market Investigation constructive working relationship between Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender meeting.
Fees in respect of non-audit the externalauditor and members of financial services provided by the external auditor to Processes and Audit Committee management.
Moreover, the Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, as published by the Company in 2015 totaled $4.4million determined that the audit process was 2014: $4.6 million.
These principally the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
sufficiently robust, with the external auditor related to reporting accountant services demonstrating continued commitment to Additional matters provided in connection with the announced the performance of high-quality audit work.
Internal audit combination with Baxalta, Inc. fees incurred Further areas of development were identified Internal audit effectiveness is monitored in 2014 principally related to reporting and communicated to the external audit and reviewed on an ongoing basis by accountant services provided in relation firm which in turn has committed to theCommittee.
The Internal Audit Plan tothe proposed merger with AbbVie, Inc. working with management and the isapproved annually by the Committee: which was subsequently terminated.
Committee to address these in 2016. progression against which is reviewed Further details on the breakdown of quarterly.
In addition, periodically the non-audit fees paid or due to the external Appointment and tendering Companys internal audit procedures auditor as a result of services provided Deloitte LLP has served as Shires external andcapabilities undergo an independent during 2015 can be found in Note 30 to auditor since 2002, with the current external assessment against global theconsolidated financial statements.
auditpartner having served since his standards, with the ensuing report appointment in 2012.
Following the Further factors identified as contributing to reviewed by the Committee Chairman.
reviewof Deloittes continued objectivity, external auditor objectivity and independence independence and performance in respect Whistleblowing include the external auditors retention of of the 2015 financial year, and having Shires compliance effort is focused on an impartial and questioning approach, received an expression of willingness to theprevention and detection of misconduct particularly with respect to issues of continue in office as external auditor, the through policy development, training, heightened sensitivity, the firms prudent Committee recommended to the Board monitoring and audit.
As part of this effort, attitude to the consideration and undertaking there-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Shire employees are encouraged to of non-audit services and Shires own Companys external auditor for the 2016 reportsuspected cases of misconduct, principle of not recruiting staff directly financial year.
There existed no contractual confidentially and without fear of retaliation, fromthe external audit engagement team.
obligations that inhibited or influenced the through management or through Shires Committees recommendation.
During the year the Committee met with Global Compliance Helpline.
The helpline, the operation of which is overseen by the external auditor to consider the In accordance with European and externalauditors independence and theChief Compliance and Risk Officer, nationalregulation, and the UK corporate ismanaged by an independent third objectivity: ensuring that the relationship governance regime, it is the Companys between the external auditor and members partysoas to preserve anonymity as policy that the external audit contract be appropriate.
Concerns and allegations are of financial management had not resulted, put to tender at least once in every ten-year or appeared to result, in a lack of thoroughly investigated with disciplinary period, with the external audit partner action taken where necessary.
Periodically rotating on a five-yearly basis.
Notwithstanding the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer such policy, having regard to transitional provides theCommittee with a summary arrangements regarding external audit ofmatters raised through management tendering and rotation provided by the andthe helpline as well as details of any relevant regulatory authorities, it is the resultant investigations.
Committees intention, subject to thenprevailing circumstances, to put the 72 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Role of the Committee Senior Independent Director succession Nomination Committee The Committees responsibilities include: In anticipation of the conclusion of David Kapplers tenure following the 2016 Annual reviewing the size and composition of the General Meeting AGM, succession Board and making recommendations to planswere put in place regarding the the Board with respect to any changes.
appointment of a new Senior Independent identifying, and nominating for the Director.
The Committee considered the approval of the Board, candidates for skills and experience sought in the future new Board appointments.
appointee as well as the qualifications of existing Board members.
With BillBurns reviewing succession planning for recusing himself from deliberations, Executive and Non-Executive Directors theCommittee agreed that Mr. Burns with a view to ensuring the long term experience on the Shire Board, his success of the Group.
David Kappler understanding of UK and US corporate Chairman of the Nomination Committee making recommendations to the Board governance environments and his extensive regarding the re-election and Membership and meetings international, commercial and operational reappointment of Directors.
As at the year end the Nomination experience in the pharmaceutical sector making recommendations to the Board Committee comprised four independent made him the preferred candidate for the with respect to the membership of Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman role.
The Committee recommended his Boardcommittees.
appointment for the approval of the Board, which was subsequently announced to be Key considerations and activities effective following the conclusion of the AGM.
Date of Meeting During the year and up to the date of Committee member appointment attendance thisreport the Committees principal Board Diversity Policy considerations and activities were: David Kappler Apr 26, 2006 6 6 Following a review of the evolving William Burns Jun 27, 2011 6 6 environment regarding Board diversity, Chief Financial Officer succession theCommittee reviewed the Board David Ginsburg Dec 3, 2015 0 0 The search for a new Chief Financial Officer Diversity Policy and agreed that it remains Susan Kilsby Feb 1, 2014 6 6 resumed in October 2014 following the appropriate.
In addition, the Committee termination of the proposed merger with Anne Minto Feb 8, 2012 6 6 reaffirmed its commitment to the promotion AbbVie, Inc. Spencer Stuart, an executive Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of diversity both in executive and nonsearch firm with no other connection to the of meetings that Committee members were eligible executive appointments and in recruitment Company, was retained to undertake the to attend.
Shire announced in November was shared with, and agreed by, the Board.
Committee meetings are typically held before 2014 that Jeff Poulton, then Head of Further details on diversity can be found scheduled meetings of the Board, with Investor Relations, would succeed the onpages 32 and 66. additional meetings convened as required.
incumbent Interim Chief Financial Officer At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, on January 1, 2015.
Following an extensive Board appointments procedure regular additional attendees included: review of internal and external candidates, Board composition is central to the Mr. Poulton was subsequently appointed effective leadership of the Group and Attendee Chief Financial Officer on April 29, 2015. therefore, prior to commencing any Chief Executive Officer searchfor prospective Board members, Non-Executive Directors General Counsel and Company the Committee reflects on the Boards The search continued for a new NonSecretary including interim appointee current balance of skills and experiences Executive Director with biotechnological Chief Human Resources Officer and those that would be conducive to and or pharmaceutical experience as well thedelivery of the Companys strategy.
as for an additional Non-Executive Director Arecommendation is then made to the that would enhance the Boards breadth Board as to the core attributes sought, ofskills and experience.
Search firms following which an appropriately qualified RussellReynolds Associates and Odgers search firm is engaged and informed, Berndtson were retained respectively to amongst other things, of the experience, lead the searches, neither of which has technical skills and other capabilities anyother connection with the Company.
sought, of the time commitment required Ineach case an extensive review of ofany appointee and of Shires Board prospective Board members was undertaken Diversity Policy.
Short-listed candidates are resulting with Olivier Bohuons appointment interviewed by as many of the Committee on July 1, 2015, and SaraMathews members as is feasible, following which appointment on September1, 2015. any preferred candidate meets with other Directors prior to a decision being made bythe Board.
Shire Annual Report 2015 73 Corporate governance report continued The Committee typically meets before Key considerations Science & Technology scheduled meetings of the Board.
During The Committees principal areas of review Committee theyear the following individuals regularly during the year included: attended meetings at the invitation of the the clinical development pipeline and Committee Chairman: theresearch and non-clinical portfolio, including key programs.
Attendee the R&D budget and productivity of Chairman of the Board theportfolio.
Chief Executive Officer Other Non-Executive Directors the relevant clinical or material preGeneral Counsel and clinical data identified during due CompanySecretary diligence relating to material business  development transactions including Head of Research and Development Baxalta, Inc. Dyax Corp. Foresight Dr. David Ginsburg Head of Corporate Development Biotherapeutics, Inc. and Meritage Chairman of the Science & Technology Head of Clinical Development Committee Pharma, Inc. Head of Transactions Membership and meetings As at the year end the Science & Technology Committees membership comprised four independent Non-Executive Role of the Committee Directors.
In accordance with the Committees The Committees principal responsibilities terms of reference, the Board is satisfied are to periodically review and advise the that at least one Committee member Board on the Companys investment in hasscientific expertise relevant to research, development and technology, the pharmaceutical research and development.
quality of the R&D pipeline and the quality of R&D talent within the Group.
In doing so, Date of Meeting the Committee: 1 Committee member appointment attendance advises the Board on emerging science David Ginsburg Jun 16, 2010 6 6 and technology issues and trends.
Olivier Bohuon Jul 1, 2015 3 3 assesses, and advises the Board on, William Burns Feb 8, 2012 6 6 theoverall quality and expertise of Steven Gillis Oct 1, 2012 6 6 medical and scientific talent within the R&D organization.
Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Committee members were eligible assesses, and advises the Board on, to attend.
thequality and competitiveness of the 1 One ad hoc and five scheduled Committee Companys R&D programs and meetings were held during the year.
technology initiatives from a scientific perspective, including the associated riskprofile.
assesses, and advises the Board on, thescientific, technical and medical merits ofany potential significant R&Dinvestments.
74 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information supervising the preparation of financial Executive Committee Committee Date of plans and budgets to be recommended member Position appointment to the Board and monitoring the Flemming performance of the Groups In-line products Ornskov Chief Executive Officer Jan 2, 2013 and Pipeline projects against budget.
Jeff managing internal talent and senior 1 Poulton Chief Financial Officer Jan 1, 2015 leadership succession planning and Bill General Counsel and directing the Groups human resources Mordan Company Secretary Oct 1, 2015 approach within parameters agreed with Mark Head of Corporate the Remuneration Committee, including 2 Enyedy Development May 1, 2014 the reward framework.
Ginger Chief Human Key considerations Gregory Resources Officer Mar 1, 2014 Dr. Flemming Ornskov The Committees principal considerations Chairman of the Executive Committee Phil Head of Research during the year included: Vickers and Development Mar 1, 2014 Membership and meetings 1 Jeff Poulton served as Interim Chief Financial financial and operational matters Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, Officer and as a member of the Executive including product performance reviews theExecutive Committees membership Committee prior to his appointment as Chief and budget updates.
isdrawn from Shires Executive Directors Financial Officer on April 29, 2015.
As at the year end the Mark Enyedy served as Interim General Counsel business development opportunities.
and Company Secretary, in addition to his existing Committee comprised the Chief Executive the relocation of over 500 positions from position as Head of Corporate Development, from Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General the Companys Chesterbrook, January 1 September 30, 2015.
Counsel and Company Secretary, Head Pennsylvania site to Shires US Operational ofCorporate Development, Chief Human Role of the Committee Headquarters in Lexington, Massachusetts.
Resources Officer and the Head of The Committee is charged with managing compliance updates from across Research and Development.
The Committee typically meets on a ensuring that the Group is run within the Companys risks and associated monthly basis to deliberate significant items thegovernance framework agreed by mitigation activities and initiatives.
of business: scheduling additional meetings theBoard.
updates on material litigation and as required.
During the year there were making strategic recommendations to investigations.
13meetings of the Committee: each of the Board and implementing the strategy which was attended by the Chief Executive objectives and proposed budget for 2016. approved by the Board.
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer human resource matters including talent, considering matters referred from including whilst appointed on an interim talent management principles, management committees that are basis.
In addition to its members, other remuneration policy and employee material from a risk, financial, reputational members of management attended survey results.
or strategic perspective, referring Committee meetings at the invitation decisions to the Board as appropriate.
