Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62 Nominations Committee continued The selection of female candidates to join the board, will therefore be made During the year the committee considered: based on merit and the individuals ability to contribute to the effectiveness Succession planning for the board of the board, which in turn will be dependent on the pool offemale andboard committees candidates available.
The boards diversity policy Talent management Severn Trent is seeking to build a diverse pool of future leaders and details of diversity initiatives being undertaken are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Effectiveness of the board committees Committee report on page 67.
Re-election of directors for the AGM As and when board appointment opportunities arise, we make full use of the Attendance at scheduled procedures recommended by the Davies Report and by the Governance Code to committee meetings: support this aspiration.
All board appointments have been and will continue to During the year, there were three scheduled meetings be based on merit and must be in the interests of all stakeholders.
The attendance gures for these meetings are detailed below.
A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who were directors of the company, senior managers and other employees as at 31 March 2015 is set Director Meetings attended out opposite.
Andrew Duff 3 3 John Coghlan 3 3 As at 31 March 2015, we had 2 female members on our board of 8 representing Richard Davey 2 3 25% and 5 female members out of 9 on the Executive Committee representing Gordon Fryett 3 3 50%.
As at the date of this report, there are 2 female members on our board of 8 Liv Gareld 2 2 representing 25% and 5 female members out of 9 on the Executive Committee representing 55%.
Martin Lamb 3 3 Philip Remnant 3 3 Dr Angela Strank 3 3 John Coghlan was appointed as a member of the Andrew Duff Nominations Committee in May 2014.
Richard Davey retired as a director on Chairman of the Nominations Committee 23 January 2015.
Liv Gareld stepped down as a member of the Nominations Committee in October 2014.
Baroness Noakes was unable to attend the meeting in July and sent her apologies.
Subsequently, Baroness Noakes retired as amember of the Committee in July 2014.
Gender diversity as at 31 March 2015 Board Executive Committee 2 4 5 6 Senior management Total workforce 11 2,109 5,289 39 Male Female Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Audit Committee John Coghlan This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Composition of the Committee The members of the committee during the year were John Coghlan as Chairman, Richard Davey and Philip Remnant, whose experience and backgrounds are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Richard Davey stepped down on 23 January 2015 and Martin Lamb became a member on 23 January 2015.
The board is satisfied that all the committee members have recent and relevant financial experience and that all members of the committee remain independent.
Activities of the Committee The members of the committee receive updates on financial reporting and the groups regulatory framework in various forms throughout the year.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer, Director of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and the external auditors normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the committee.
Other members of senior management are also invited to attend as appropriate.
The committee regularly holds private discussions with both the internal and external auditors.
John Coghlan In performing its duties, the committee has access to the services of the Chairman of the Audit Committee director of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and, if required, external professional advisors.
The committee assists the board in discharging its responsibilities for the Key areas of focus in 2014 15 integrity of the companys financial The committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the board on the statements, the assessment of the committees work.
It met four times in 2014 15 and its work focused on the effectiveness of the systems of internal following key areas: controls and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external financial statements and accounting policies: auditors.
It also oversees the assurance risk management and internal controls: of regulatory returns made by Severn oversight of internal and external audit: Trent Water Limited to Ofwat.
The role and the responsibilities of the committee regulatory reporting obligations of our subsidiary Severn Trent Water Limited: are set out in written terms of reference.
and These can be found on our website scrutinising the assurance process underpinning the PR14 submission.
com and are also The committees performance was included in the review of the Board available from the Company Secretary.
Committees effectiveness referred to on page 56.
Financial statements and accounting policies The committee looked carefully at those aspects of the financial statements which required significant accounting judgements or where there was estimation uncertainty.
These areas are explained in note 4 of the financial statements on page 106.
The committee receives detailed reports from both the Chief Financial officer and the external auditors on these areas and on any other matters which they believe should be drawn to the attention of the committee.
The committee also reviews the draft of the external auditors report on the financial statements, with particular reference to those matters reported as carrying risks of material misstatement.
The committee discusses the range of possible treatments both with management and with the external auditors and satisfies itself that the judgements made by management are robust and should be supported.
The following areas were the most important ones for 2014 15: restructuring costs relating to the business as a whole: the outcome of the triennial valuation of the pension scheme, the deficit calculation and the consistent application of appropriate assumptions: the amount of the provisions held for tax liabilities and the calculation of current and deferred tax benets in relation to changes in industrial buildings allowances: the proposed disclosure of material items of income or expenditure which met the criteria for classication as exceptional items: and the implications of and the proposed response to the new Financial Reporting Council reporting requirements on going concern and viability statements.
