Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 64 Audit Committee continued The committee reviewed and challenged the evidence and assumptions Internal controls underpinning the current use of the going concern assumption in preparing the accounts and in making the statement made in the Directors report that the company is a going concern.
The committee reviewed the draft results announcements for interim and full year results and the proposed presentations to analysts and paid particular Committee receives regular reports from Internal Audit and reviews attention to the tone of the announcements and presentations to consider their management letters received from the consistency with the financial statements.
external auditor In reviewing the financial statements, the committee receives input from the Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial officer.
The Audit Committee reviewed the outcome of the process established in 2014 to confirm that the report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
As last year, the Disclosure Committee undertook a detailed review of the Annual Report and Accounts prior to making a recommendation that the board Identies principal risks and could make the fair, balanced and understandable statements contained in the related controls Directors responsibility statement on page 90.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte reported to the committee on its review of the half-year interim results and on its audit of the year end financial statements.
Internal controls The committee receives regular reports from Internal Audit in respect of its work on the internal control framework and reviews management letters received from the external auditors.
Provides guidance to risk owners The committee reviewed the processes for and outputs from our Enterprise Risk on the boards tolerance for different types of risk Management process, through which the principal risks and related controls are identified.
The committee discussed the approach to documenting the boards risk appetite and providing guidance to risk owners on the boards tolerance for different types of risk.
In addition, it monitored the ongoing development of our compliance and assurance processes in respect of the key risks.
The committee reviews the procedures, systems and controls designed to prevent and detect fraud and bribery and receives a log of incidents of fraud or bribery every six months, which includes the actions taken to investigate and Reviews the procedures, systems respond to the incidents.
There were no material incidents during the year.
and controls designed to prevent and detect fraudand bribery The committee also reviewed the groups approach to cyber security and IT continuity.
Further details of our internal control framework can be found in the Directors report on page 88.
Internal Audit The Head of Internal Audit and his team report on a day-to-day basis to the Reviews the groups approach to cyber executive team on the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal controls securityand IT continuity and the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the groups assets and resources.
This work is summarised and reported to the committee on a regular basis and is a key element of the assurance that the committee receives on the risks and controls in the group.
The Head of Internal Audit is free to raise any issues with the committee or its Chairman at any time during the year.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, the audit plan and budget are reviewed at least annually by the committee.
Policy on the provision of non-audit services The company has approved a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The policy sets out the approach to be taken by the group when using the services of the external auditors, including requiring that certain services provided by the external auditors are pre-approved by the committee or its Chairman.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 It defines the non-audit services that may be provided by the external auditors Internal Audit and separately sets out those non-audit services which are prohibited, since the independence of the external auditors could be threatened.
Non-audit services where the external auditors may be used include: auditrelated services required by statute or regulation, tax compliance, due diligence The Head of Internal Audit and his on acquisitions and disposals, services related to fraud, Corporate Responsibility team report on a day-to-day basis report reviews and regulatory support.
to the executive team The approval of the committee or its Chairman is always required if a non-audit service provided by the auditors is expected to cost more than 100,000 or if nonaudit fees for the year would exceed the amount of the audit fee.
External auditors Deloitte audits all significant subsidiaries of the group.
Annually, the committee reviews the external auditors audit plan and reviews and assesses information This work is summarised and reported to provided by them conrming their independence and objectivity within the the committee on a regular basis context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
The committee also reviews their effectiveness, which involves: assessment of the auditors by the committee and key executives: and conrmation that the auditors meet minimum standards of qualication, independence, expertise, effectiveness and communication.
These assessments are carried out prior to the committee recommending to the board that the external auditors be proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
The Head of Internal Audit can raise any Deloitte were appointed auditors of the company in 2005, pursuant to a issues with the committee or its Chairman competitive tender process and since 2005 the company has annually atanytimeduring the year considered the need to re-tender the external audit service.
The company is committed to complying with the provisions in the Governance Code in respect to audit tendering along with the UK Competition and Markets Authority Order and the European Union rules on audit tenders.
As a result, the committee will formally tender the external audit service during the 2015 16 financial year.
There are no contractual obligations to restrict the committees Attendance at scheduled choice of external auditors.
Committeemeetings: The Audit Partner, currently Carl Hughes, is required to rotate after a maximum During the year, there were 4 scheduled of five years, 2014 15 being his last financial year.
The Audit Partner rotating in meetings of the Audit Committee.
for the 2015 16 financial year is Kari Hale.
The attendance gures are detailed below Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services are for these meetings.
provided in note 7 to the accounts on page 111.
Director Meetings attended Severn Trent Water Limited Philip Remnant 4 4 The regulated activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited also Baroness Noakes 1 1 require two annual reporting submissions to Ofwat which are reviewed by the John Coghlan 3 3 committee: an annual submission on Severn Trent Water Limiteds regulatory Martin Lamb 1 1 performance and obligations known as the Annual Regulatory Performance Richard Davey 3 3 Report, together with the Annual Regulatory Compliance Statement: and a Baroness Noakes retired as a member of the Audit statement that underpins the customer charges made by Severn Trent Water Committee in July 2014.
Limited, known as the Principal Statement.
John Coghlan was appointed as a member of the In March 2015 the committee reviewed the process, timeline and assurance Audit Committee in May 2014. framework in place for the production and submission of the Annual Regulatory Martin Lamb was appointed as a member of the Compliance Statement and the 2015 16 Principal Statement to Ofwat.
Richard Davey retired as a member of the Audit Deloitte makes reports to Ofwat in respect of Severn Trent Water Limiteds Committee on 23 January 2015. regulatory accounts.
The Annual Regulatory Performance Report, which provides an overall picture of company performance, covers many aspects which are not financial and Severn Trent Water Limited appoints engineering consultants, Atkins, to report and provide assurance on those aspects.
The committee receives reports from Atkins on their work as part of its review of the Annual Regulatory Returns.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 66 Corporate Responsibility Committee Gordon Fryett This report provides details of the role of the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The members of the committee are Gordon Fryett Chairman, Andrew Duff, LivGareld and Dr Angela Strank.
Our CR framework Our Code of Conduct, Doing the right thing The Severn Trent way, provides the structure and a common CR framework for both our businesses regulated and non-regulated.
The nine principles of our Code of Conduct are: 1.
Keeping everyone healthy and safe 2.
Supporting employees rights and diversity 3.
Maintaining ethical and honest behaviour 4.
Staying free from bribery and corruption 5.
Keeping our communications open and responsible 6.
Working within the community Gordon Fryett Chairman of the Corporate 8.
Protecting our environment Responsibility Committee 9.
Standing up for whats right The committee provides guidance and To monitor performance, both Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Business direction to the companys Corporate Services have an effective performance management system in place through Responsibility programme, reviews core business Key Performance Indicators KPIs see page 10 of the Strategic the groups key non financial risks and report for further details.
These are overseen by the relevant management opportunities and monitors progress.
Many of the business KPIs relate directly to our CR The committee reviews annually the focus areas and therefore contribute signicantly to our CR performance adequacy of the companys formal and are linked to our reward arrangements.
We report internally on our CR whistleblowing policy and procedures performance through senior management and the committee.
Externally, we which deal with allegations from report through a number of channels, including our website and our Annual employees relating to breaches of the Report and Accounts.
Code of Conduct and reviews at each of its Key areas of focus 2014 15 meetings the whistleblowing incident log.
The committee provides board oversight of our CR framework, including The terms of reference for the the strategy and performance related to health, safety, environment and committee can be found on our website the community as well as employee and supply chain matters.
com and are also and whistleblowing allegations are reviewed at every meeting.
Key areas of available from the Company Secretary.
discussion and review during 2014 15 are set out below: the committee reviewed two papers outlining future societal, economic and environmental issues, and agreed to review the forward agendas for the committee to ensure that emerging risks were considered in more detail: a new approach to CR for Severn Trent was approved, comprising compliance in relation to the performance of core essential activity, and excellence in two identied areas of ambition for the company making our regions rivers healthier and improving water efficiency, each having measurable targets.
The new framework for our CR was launched in April 2015: the committee received an update on initiatives to promote diversity at Severn Trent.
It was noted that Severn Trent compared relatively well against industry benchmarks and that further initiatives were under way to ensure the progression of females through management positions: the committee received two reports from Internal Audit with respect to their findings on Health, Safety and Environment.
The committee noted that a good framework was in place for occupational health and managing contractors: and the committee discussed updates on working in the community protecting our environment, water quality, employee satisfaction in Severn Trent Business Services and managing our supply chain responsibly.
