Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance report Chairmans overview Compliance with the Code The Code provides the standard for corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
The Board considers that the Company has fully complied with the provisions and applied the main principles of the Code for the whole of the year ended 30 June 2015.
This section of the Annual Report along On behalf of the Board it gives me great pleasure to introduce this years with the Directors remuneration report on pages 51 to 69, the Directors corporate governance report.
report and other statutory disclosures on pages 70 to 77, provide details As a Board, we are the stewards of the Company.
It is our responsibility of how the Company has applied the main principles.
to ensure that the Companys strategy is aligned to the interests of our investors and takes account of the interests of all the Companys Leadership stakeholders.
As individuals, we believe that effective corporate Role of the Board and its Members governance is based on honesty, integrity and transparency, and can The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and only be fully realised within an environment of open, robust and effective performance of the Company and provides leadership within a framework debate.
This is the Board culture we foster at Sky, and it is my personal of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be appropriately responsibility as Chairman to ensure that we continue to live this culture assessed and managed.
The Board sets the strategic direction, ensuring and promote it within our business.
that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its I am pleased to report that your Company complied in full with the UK objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, as revised in September 2012, The Board takes a long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible to during the year under review.
We are also reviewing the changes to the Code a wide range of stakeholders, whilst pursuing its objectives in a manner which were introduced in October 2014, which apply to the Company from consistent with its statutory duties, for the benefit of the Companys 1 July 2015. members as a whole.
It has been a transformational year for the Company following the The Directors of the Board are selected on the criteria of proven skill acquisitions of the Sky businesses in Germany and Italy.
Much of and ability in their particular field of endeavour, and a diversity of outlook the Boards activity has been around ensuring that the acquisitions and experience which directly benefits the operation of the Board as successfully completed and positioned the business for the next the custodian of the business.
A full biography of each Board member stage in its development.
This year we undertook an internal Board evaluation and I met with all the Directors and discussed a range of topics.
The feedback from Roles and responsibilities the evaluation confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are separate continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to and have been so since the Companys shares were admitted to listing make an effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to in 1994.
The roles and expectations of each Director are clearly defined their role.
The resulting findings of the evaluation are discussed on page 49. and recorded within their letters of appointment or service contracts.
The Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the The roles and responsibilities of the Board members are explained below.
information in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Further detail of these arrangements can be found on page 47.
As a result The Chairman of this, the Board considers the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, Nick Ferguson is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The Chairman for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model is responsible for creating an environment for open, robust and effective and strategy.
This includes ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
During the year we have continued our work in promoting greater and more effective engagement with our shareholders.
I, along with the Executive The Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO Directors, meet our investors and analysts and discuss a wide range of Jeremy Darroch is responsible and accountable to the Board for the topics.
Tracy Clarke, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has also management and operation of the Company, advancing long-term engaged with shareholders on remuneration issues and will continue shareholder value, supported by the management team.
He is also to do so over the course of the coming financial year.
involved in the management of the social and environmental responsibilities of the Company.
Nick Ferguson, CBE Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID The role of the SID is currently carried out by Martin Gilbert who succeeded Andy Higginson on 21 November 2014.
Martin is responsible for providing support to the Chairman and provides an additional point of contact for shareholders.
40 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Non-Executive Directors Board and Committee framework Chase Carey, Tracy Clarke, David DeVoe, Martin Gilbert, Adine Grate, Dave Lewis, James Murdoch, Matthieu Pigasse, Danny Rimer, Arthur Siskind and Andy Sukawaty, collectively, are responsible for constructively challenging the Executive Directors and overseeing the delivery of the Companys strategy within the risk and control framework.
Board Company Secretary Chris Taylor is responsible for the following in respect of effective Board operation: To ensure good information flows within the Board and its Committees, Audit Remuneration between senior management and Non-Executive Directors: Committee Committee To facilitate Director induction and assisting with professional development: To advise the Board through the Chairman of all corporate governance obligations and developments in best practice: and Corporate To be responsible for communicating with shareholders as appropriate.
Bigger Picture Governance & All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Committee Nominations Secretary who advises on corporate governance matters, Board procedures Committee and other relevant rules and regulations.
In addition, Directors have the right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Environment supportive of challenge The effective operation of the Board is dependent on the inherent The Audit Committee has responsibility for oversight of corporate checks and balances within the various Board roles.
As highly qualified reporting, risk management and the Companys relationship with its and successful individuals in their respective fields of endeavour, auditor.
Significant risks to the business are kept under review and all Non-Executive Directors influence, debate and contribute to decisions appropriate material controls are sanctioned and employed as appropriate.
relating to the strategy of the Company, its performance and its impact The Companys principal risks and examples of how we mitigate those risks on stakeholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are evaluated and judged are detailed on pages 32 to 35.
For further details, the Audit Committee on the quality and content of their contributions to Board debate and Report can be found on pages 45 to 48. are expected to offer alternative viewpoints and challenge perceptions The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Remuneration and decisions as appropriate.
policy for the Board and ensures that no Director is involved in decisions affecting their own remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report can Board Agenda be found on pages 51 to 69.
In addition to its reserved and standing matters, during the year the Board also considered and received a number of updates and The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is responsible for presentations, giving Directors a further opportunity to explore oversight of the structure, size, composition and succession planning and analyse topics such as: of the Board and its Committees and overall compliance with corporate governance standards.
The Report of the Corporate Governance The Groups operations and five-year financial plans: & Nominations Committee can be found on pages 48 and 49.
The general market and economic outlook: The Bigger Picture Committee has responsibility for oversight of the social, The competitive landscape, opportunities and market trends: environmental and ethical impacts of the Companys activities.
The report of the Bigger Picture Committee can be found on page 50.
Growth of existing business activities: and The minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Board Existing and new products, services and technological developments.
At each Board meeting the Chairman of each To maintain an appropriate level of control over the day-to-day affairs Committee provides the Board with a brief update of the work currently of the Company, the Board has identified certain matters that only it being carried out by the Committee they chair.
Other sub-committees and can approve, and these matters are contained within the Companys steering groups provide additional resource and support to the Board Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board which can be found at Committees or are formed for specific tasks.
com corporate management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
The Committee comprises the Group CEO, Board delegation Group Chief Financial Officer Group CFO and other senior executives The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, from within the Group.
notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Governance & Nominations and the Bigger Picture Committees.
Each Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys corporate website sky.
com corporate about-sky corporate-governance Sky plc 41 Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance report continued Board and Committee attendance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below.
The table shows the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend.
Corporate Governance & Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Bigger Picture Number of meetings held in year 7 6 5 3 2 Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch, Group CEO 7 7 Andrew Griffith, Group CFO 7 7 Non-Executive Directors Chase Carey 7 7 Tracy Clarke 7 7 5 5 2 2 David DeVoe 7 7 Nick Ferguson 7 7 5 5 3 3 1 Martin Gilbert 7 7 6 6 0 1 2 2 2,3 Adine Grate 6 7 6 6 4 4 1,3 Andy Higginson 3 4 2 3 1 1 Dave Lewis 7 7 6 6 3 3 2 2 James Murdoch 7 7 2 2 3 Matthieu Pigasse 4 7 6 6 3 Danny Rimer 4 7 3 Arthur Siskind 6 7 2 3 3 Andy Sukawaty 7 7 4 5 Notes: 1 Martin Gilbert replaced Andy Higginson as member of the Governance & Nominations Committee following Andys retirement at the AGM on 21 November 2014.
2 Adine Grate was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee replacing Martin Gilbert with effect from 25 July 2014.
3 Directors are encouraged to attend Board and respective Board and Committee meetings but in certain circumstances meetings are called at short notice and due to prior business commitments and time differences Directors may be unable to attend.
In these circumstances Directors receive relevant papers and are updated on developments by either the Chairman or Group CEO.
Acquisition of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia During the prior year the Board appointed a committee to investigate, consider and evaluate the overall strategy in connection with the proposal to acquire Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
The committee comprised all members of the Board other than any Directors who were not independent of 21st Century Fox, Inc or had a conflict of interest.
The committee met on two occasions during the year and formally approved the transaction.
Effectiveness Board composition and independence Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board member receives The Board currently comprises 14 Directors, made up of two Executive and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that may affect Directors and 12 Non-Executive Directors.
At least half of the Board of independence according to best practice statements contained within Directors are determined to be independent by the Board in accordance the Code.
The responses to the questionnaire assist the Board in with provision B.
On appointment, the Chairman met the ascertaining whether a Director is independent in character and independence criteria set out in provision B.
Biographies judgement, and whether there are relationships or circumstances which of each of the Directors are set out on pages 38 and 39. are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Chase Carey, David DeVoe, James Murdoch and Arthur Siskind represent Board Composition the Companys largest shareholder, 21st Century Fox, and as such are not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
Each of these Directors has extensive media and pay TV experience Chairman 1 and makes significant contribution to Board discussion.
Executive Directors 2 The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of experience Independent Non-Executive Directors 7 and expertise to the Groups affairs, and carry significant weight in Other Non-Executive Directors 4 the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to challenge management and help develop proposals on strategy.
Time is regularly put aside at Board meetings to discuss the strategic direction of the Company.
42 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Appointments to the Board, diversity and succession planning External directorships The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps the Boards Any external appointments for the Executive Directors are considered by balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of service of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
Executive Directors individuals under constant review.
In respect of succession planning and are not allowed to take on the Chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company, but are supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an established procedure allowed to take up one external Non-Executive FTSE 100 appointment and for the appointment of Directors.
In brief, the Committee identifies the retain any payments in respect of such appointments.
set of skills and experience required and, with the assistance of external Jeremy Darroch was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director search agencies, selects individuals to take Board positions on review of of Burberry Group plc on 5 February 2014, and is a member of the Audit, their individual merits, regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
Further information on the work of the Committee during the year can be found on pages 48 and 49.
Andrew Griffith was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc on 12 March 2014.
Andrew serves as Senior Independent Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and letters of Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a member of the appointment of the Non-Executive Directors may be inspected at the Remuneration & Nominations Committees.
Details of pay in respect registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any of these appointments can be found in the Directors remuneration weekday except Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays and at the place report on page 68. of the Annual General Meeting AGM for 15 minutes prior to the meeting until the conclusion of the AGM.
Time commitment The Board has published a statement of its intention to increase female All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments representation on the Board which can be found on the Companys required on induction, and are expected to devote sufficient time corporate website sky.
As required by company legislation, for the effective discharge of their functions.
The Company provides a table on page 71 illustrates gender diversity amongst the Board.
Non-Executive Directors with appropriate support and facilities for consideration of the Companys strategy and performance, and a Diversity ratio of Directors appointed in past three years dialogue with the Chairman is strongly encouraged so that any issues regarding conflicting commitments and time pressures can be addressed appropriately.
Male 3 Female 2 Induction and training All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual requirements.
The induction process involves meeting with all of the Length of time served on the Board Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
During the year, Directors have received presentations from a number of areas of the business including Customer Group, Content, 0-5 years 50% 5 years 50% Corporate Finance and Strategic Planning Group.
The Chairman meets with the Directors throughout the year to review and agree their individual training and developmental needs.
1 Industry Background experience An example of a tailored induction programme is detailed below: Industry related 8 International 12 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Finance Investment 7 Technology Innovation 2 Meetings with Customer Product Accompanied Regulatory 5 Senior Executives, contact demonstrations a Sky engineer Executive 7 Sky News and centre visit on customer Sky Studio visits visits Notes: 1 Directors may fall into one or more categories.
In addition to this, various presentations from prior Board meetings will be made available to the Director in order to improve their understanding Directors appointment and reappointment of the Group and the competitive and regulatory landscape in which it In respect of Code provision B.
7.1. all Executive and Non-Executive Directors operates.
Consideration is given to Committee appointments and where will retire and offer themselves for reappointment at the Companys 2015 relevant, tailored training may be required.
AGM, with the exception of David DeVoe, Danny Rimer and Arthur Siskind who have decided not to seek reappointment this year and will step down Board evaluation from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
Immediately following the In line with the Code, and following the external Board evaluation carried AGM, it is intended that John Nallen, Chief Financial Officer of 21st Century out by Alice Perkins of JCA Group in 2013, an internal Board evaluation Fox, will be appointed by the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
As a result has been carried out for the past two years.
of these proposed changes the size of the Board would reduce from 14 to 12 During the period under review the process was facilitated by Nick Directors and at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman would Ferguson.
Further details of the evaluation process can be found continue to be comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors in in the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee report compliance with the Code.
Sky plc 43 Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance report continued Information provided to the Directors Shareholder engagement The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group Non-Executive Directors.
For each Board and Committee meeting, Directors and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with are provided with a tailored Board pack at least one week prior to the institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each meeting.
To improve the delivery and security of Board papers, the year and the Chairman, Group CEO and Group CFO have attended meetings Company has adopted an electronic system allowing the Board to easily with investors, as appropriate.
The Company also makes presentations access information, irrespective of geographic location.
Directors regularly to analysts and investors around the time of the half-year and full-year receive additional information from the Company between Board meetings, results announcement: conference calls are held with analysts and including a daily press summary and a monthly Group performance update.
investors following the release of the first quarter and third quarter trading Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided with statements and presentations are made during the year to many existing all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were able or potential shareholders at investor conferences.
The Company hosts to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman and Group CEO.
an annual meeting for its major shareholders to discuss remuneration.
Conflicts of interest The AGM Under UK Company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may investors and sets aside time at the meeting for shareholders to ask possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise Companys activities for the previous year.
All resolutions at the 2014 situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not AGM were voted by way of a poll.
This follows best practice and allows in breach of his duty under company law.
the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions All existing external appointments for each Director have been authorised were voted separately and the final voting results, which included all votes by the Board and each authorisation is set out in a Conflicts Register.
cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior Directors are required to notify the Board of potential conflicts so that they to the meeting, were released to the London Stock Exchange as soon as can be considered, and if appropriate, authorised by the Board.
In addition, practicable after the meeting.
The announcement was also made available the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee conducts an annual on the Companys corporate website.
As in previous years, the proxy review of Directors conflicts and reports its findings to the Board.
form and the announcement of the voting results made it clear that The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee reviewed the a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the Boards conflicts during the financial year and concluded that conflicts calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation is operating effectively.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Directors and Officers Insurance and Indemnity The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Company maintains a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
Additionally, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Company to indemnify the Directors and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all Directors of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
Relations with shareholders Shareholder communications Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The shareholder information section on page 147 contains further details on electronic shareholder communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys corporate website sky.
com corporate 44 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Report of the Audit Committee Attendance at Committee Meetings David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to attend Chairmans overview meetings.
However, their attendance at these meetings is as observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
The Group CFO, other business and finance executives and representatives from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the internal audit department attend meetings at the request of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Audit Committee Agenda During the year the Audit Committee has continued to play a key oversight Focus for the Committee this year has included the following items: role on behalf of the Board.
The Committees principal activities have focused on the financial performance of the Company, internal audit, Review and recommendation to the Board of the quarterly, interim external audit, risk management, compliance and governance.
We reviewed and full-year financial statements the impact of the acquisitions of the Sky businesses in Germany and Italy Quarterly updates from the Group CFO on business performance across on the 2014 15 external and internal audit plans and the evolution of the Group.
financial reporting under the new structure.
Audit plans and findings of external and internal audits The Committee has also monitored the Companys approach to risk management and the independence and effectiveness of the external The review and recommendation to the Board of the dividend policy auditors, and received a number of presentations from management and proposed payments.
relating to data governance, security, internal audit, treasury, taxation, Liquidity and going concern review and health and safety.
Annual reporting due diligence procedures and corporate governance We have considered the processes underpinning the production and updates approval of this years Annual Report to enable the Board to confirm that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable The impact of the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia on the and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 2014 15 External Audit plan Companys performance, business model and strategy.
A description of Assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process, how we approached this can be found in this report.
and scope of audit There were six meetings during the year and after each Committee meeting Auditor independence and the policy on the provision of non-audit I gave an oral update to the Board on the key issues discussed during our services by the external auditor meetings.
The Committee also had a meeting with the Companys external auditors without management present.
Quarterly review of non-audit services and fees You can find additional information of how we have carried out our role Quarterly reports from the treasury function on the funding, liquidity, and responsibilities within the remainder of this report.
going concern and operational capabilities of the Group and compliance with treasury policies The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website.
Quarterly updates on planned internal audit work and on the status of Senior Accounting Officer SAO certification work to ensure Martin Gilbert SAO compliance Committee Chairman Quarterly reports of all transactions with a related party during the period in excess of 100,000 in value Committee composition Martin Gilbert Chairman Review of all transactions which fall within the Listing Rule 11.1.
5R Adine Grate definition of Related Party Transaction and all transactions with Dave Lewis a related party in excess of 10 million and where required Matthieu Pigasse recommendation to the Board Andy Higginson, a former Chair of the Committee, stepped down as a Review and oversight of the Group risk register, risk methodology member of the Committee in November 2014 following his retirement and risk management systems and processes as a Director.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Committee members have considerable financial and business audit function and controls experience and the Board considers that the membership as a whole Taxation, security, fraud, health and safety and data protection has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its responsibilities.
In addition, the Board has determined that each member of the Committee has sufficient accounting or related financial management expertise in line with the Code.
Sky Deutschlands related party transactions are approved by the supervisory board in accordance with German law.
Once the purchase of the remaining minority interests in Sky Deutschland has concluded, Sky Deutschland will be subject to the same approval process as UK and Italy.
Sky plc 45 Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance report continued Significant accounting issues Internal control and risk management When considering the annual financial statements, the Committee The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups reviewed the significant accounting issues and the Groups critical systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their accounting policies as set out on pages 32 to 35 with particular focus effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, and where possible on the following: eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Retail subscription revenue: or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing The majority of the Groups revenues derive from retail subscription the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the revised packages, including hardware, supplied to customers.
The Group applies guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council in judgement in determining the accounting allocation of payments received October 2005.
During the period under review no significant failings or from customers to different elements of the bundled package, taking into weaknesses were identified.
consideration the timing and relative value attributed to each element.
During the year, the Committee received a performance report from the The Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the Group CFO at each Committee meeting that included a review of revenues operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management recognised in the period.
during the year, and this review has been carried out for the year ended 30 June 2015 and up to the date on which the financial statements were The Committee considered managements policy, and considered the views approved.
This review relates to the Company and its subsidiaries and does of the external auditor and is satisfied that the policies have been applied not extend to joint ventures.
The Committee meets on at least a quarterly consistently and appropriately.
basis with the Groups Director: Audit, Risk Management and Compliance General entertainment programming inventory: and the external auditor.
The Committee reviewed the policy for the recognition of content costs and There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the sought assurances from management, and took into account the views annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved by of the external auditor, that the policy is appropriate and has been the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget through weekly and applied consistently.
The method for recognising general entertainment monthly reporting cycles.
During the financial year under review monthly programming expense requires estimation and judgement to ensure reports on performance were provided to the Board and the Group reports that the expense profile is consistent with the expected value of the to shareholders each quarter.
In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group Finance team is The Committee is satisfied that the policies have been applied consistently, responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and there are appropriate and are aligned to industry practice.
are well established controls over the financial reporting process.
Capitalisation of intangible and tangible non-current assets: These are also documented in line with the requirements of the SAO The Committee considered the Groups policies and sought assurances legislation and the controls are reviewed and signed off to confirm from management that the Groups project accounting controls are their continuous operation by the control owners twice a year and operating as intended and that spend capitalised as property, plant are independently tested by the internal audit team.
The results of and equipment and intangible assets meets the relevant accounting the SAO testing are reported to the Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Committee also considered the report from the external auditor.
Changes in internal controls No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting has The Committee is satisfied that the Group has followed appropriate occurred in the UK during the year ended 30 June 2015 that has materially accounting standards regarding the capitalisation of project expenditure.
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal Accounting for acquisitions: control over financial reporting.
During the year, the Group acquired The Committee reviewed managements accounting for the acquisitions Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia which introduced additional complexity of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia, including determination of the fair to financial reporting.
Since the operating model and business operations values of assets and liabilities acquired and of the consideration paid, and of the acquired entities are similar to those of the existing Group, alignment of accounting policies across the Group, which require significant the controls over financial reporting remain materially consistent.
The Committee considered the views of the external auditor and received a presentation from management explaining Risk registers the evolution of the Groups financial reporting to incorporate the acquired There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the Group entities into the enlarged group.
and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The risk register framework is based on methodology to identify the risk based on The Committee is satisfied that the Group has followed the applicable impact and likelihood.
The risk is assessed, quantified and measured accounting requirements in accounting for the acquisitions and that which enables discussions on risk appetite.
The registers detail the accounting policies across the Group have been appropriately aligned.
controls that manage the risks and, where necessary, the action plans to mitigate the risk exposure.
The business develops the action plans and the internal audit team monitors their implementation.
The Committee formally reviews the Group Risk Register twice a year and senior executives from the business present their risk management plans from time to time.
46 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the advisory services on these strategic projects has been approved by effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk the Committee to be provided by Deloitte in the financial year 2015 16 management to the Groups operating management.
to ensure an appropriate level of project advisory continuity and these services are planned to substantially cease by the end of that year The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 32 to 35. in line with the implementation of the EU audit regulation.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Audit and non-audit services provided during the year were approved by The Financial Reporting Committee FRC has responsibility for the the Committee.
An analysis of auditor remuneration is disclosed in note production of the annual report and the associated review process.
7 to the consolidated financial statements.
Guidance and comprehensive due diligence procedures were issued to reviewers by the FRC to help them assess whether the document was Audit and non-audit services fair, balanced and understandable and complied with the requirements The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor of audit of the Code.
The FRC maintained oversight of the review process and and non-audit services, which categorises such services between: submitted certification to the Committee to enable it to be in a position Those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide: to recommend to the Board that the required statement could be made.
Those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide and Disclosure controls and procedures the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Committee: and The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems that Those services for which the specific approval of the Committee are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed as part is required before the auditor is permitted to provide the service.
of the Companys UK listing obligations is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Group CEO and Group CFO, as appropriate The policy defines the types of services falling under each category to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
Auditor independence An analysis of all services provided by the external auditor is reviewed During the year ended 30 June 2015, the Committee reviewed audit by the Committee on a quarterly basis.
independence and scope of non-audit services and independence During the year, the following examples were deemed to be pre-approved safeguards with Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
in accordance with the policy.
As part of the review, the Audit Committee has received and reviewed Comfort procedures in relation to debt issuances and programme confirmation in writing that, in Deloittes professional judgement, Deloitte update is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and Assurance of certain KPIs for the Bigger Picture Review audit staff is not impaired.
Effectiveness of external audit process The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity During the year, the effectiveness of the audit process was assessed and independence of Deloitte was not in any way impaired by either by the Committee, Group Finance team and other key internal stakeholders the nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during the year, in the form of a questionnaire.
The areas under review were: the level of non-audit fees charged, or any other facts or circumstances.
A key aspect of this years consideration was the effect of the acquisitions Quality, resources and scope of planning of the audit of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia: Objectivity, independence and transparency of the audit These acquisitions were both defined as Class One transactions Identification of key accounting judgements, significant audit and under the London Listing Rules.
To support the transaction, facilitate accounting issues regulatory reporting and the raising of the necessary finance, the Committee approved due diligence services by KPMG, the auditors of Level of technical knowledge and professional scepticism Sky Deutschland, and reporting accountant services from Ernst & Young Understanding Sky as a business, its values and culture and challenges EY, the auditors of Sky Italia, and reporting accountant and other it faces transaction support and advisory services from Sky plcs own auditors, Deloitte.
The committee was satisfied appropriate safeguards had been The quality of planning and supervision of the group audit implemented in this regard.
Quality of reporting and communications to the Audit Committee Deloitte network firms in Germany and Italy had been selected to provide The responses to the assessment were discussed which confirmed that consulting and other services to Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia prior Deloitte are performing as expected.
Deloitte continue to demonstrate to their acquisition by Sky.
In order to ensure an orderly reduction in strengths in the majority of these areas.
There were no significant findings and to reduce transition risk, the Committee approved the continuation from the assessment and the review confirmed that Deloitte continue to of services by Deloitte until individual activities were rescoped or carry out an effective and robust external audit, including the supervision completed, taken on by Sky personnel or other vendors commissioned.
of the enlarged group audit.
The Committee also continues to be satisfied All necessary adjustments to scope to ensure auditor independence with the quality of challenge and scepticism of the external auditor.
were made within the six-month period permitted under the relevant The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that shareholder professional standards, which envisage circumstances such as these.
approval be sought to reappoint Deloitte as the external auditor The auditors considered the need for additional safeguards and satisfied and has also recommended that Deloitte be appointed auditors of the Committee that they had implemented these appropriately.
Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia for the 2015 16 financial year.
The safeguards considered by the committee included the continuation of the use of KPMG and EY for the year ended 30 June 2015 as auditors of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
A certain level of permitted consulting Sky plc 47 Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance report continued Audit partner rotation Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible Chairmans overview for the engagement every five years.
As reported previously the current audit partner rotates after the 2014 15 audit.
The partner was shadowed by a successor audit partner throughout the year after a selection process to ensure the development of thorough knowledge of the enlarged group and to safeguard challenge and objectivity.
The incoming audit partner will be required to rotate after the 2019 20 audit.
Tenure of external auditor The regulatory regime relating to mandatory audit tendering has Following the retirement of Andy Higginson as a Non-Executive Director, significantly changed in the UK and Europe.
The Committee is closely Senior Independent Director and Chairman of this Committee at the monitoring these developments and taking into account that Deloitte Companys 2014 AGM in November, I am pleased to confirm that Martin has been the external auditor of the Company since June 2002, it expects Gilbert replaced Andy as Senior Independent Director and was appointed to conduct an audit tender in advance of June 2020, which itself is in as a member of this Committee.
I succeeded Andy as Chairman of the advance of 2023 by which the transitional rules in UK and EU regulation Committee and all of these changes were effective from 21 November 2014. would require the Company to have performed a tender.
Over the past three years a number of new Independent Non-Executive The Committee considered the merits of conducting an audit tender Directors have been appointed to the Board and it was very encouraging process this year, however in light of the significant enlargement in the that one of the findings of this years internal Board evaluation was that size and scale of the Group following the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland these new Directors have bedded down well and had strengthened the and Sky Italia and the significant internal time and effort devoted diversity of the Board.
The findings of the evaluation also confirmed that to establishing common financial controls and processes as a result the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively with each it was decided that for now shareholders interests would best be of the Directors making valued and effective contributions.
served by focusing on the integration of the enlarged Group, including The Board as a whole welcomes the opportunity to adapt to innovations the consolidation of the Group audit with a single firm.
The Committee and change within the field, and continues to actively progress initiatives will continue to keep the timing of a future tender under annual review.
to adapt to corporate governance changes, address gender balance on the Board, source the right skills to complement our talented management team and create robust succession plans to safeguard the Companys future performance.
There were three meetings held during the year and after each Committee meeting, I reported to the Board on the key issues discussed during our meetings.
You can find further information of how we have carried out our role and responsibilities within the remainder of this report.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website.
Nick Ferguson Committee Chairman Committee composition Nick Ferguson Chairman Dave Lewis Arthur Siskind Martin Gilbert Andy Higginson stepped down as a member of the Committee in November 2014 following his retirement as a Director.
Attendance at Committee Meetings The Group CEO and General Counsel attend the meetings from time to time and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
48 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee Agenda Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman of the Committee reported Focus for the Committee this year has centred on the following items: the findings of the evaluation to the Committee and the Board.
Board and Committee composition The overall conclusion was that individual Board members are satisfied Internal Board evaluation that the Board works well and operates effectively in an environment where there is constructive challenge from the Non-Executive Directors.
Review of Non-Executive Director independence The Directors were satisfied with the current mix of skills and experience Review of Directors conflicts of interest on the Board and that the composition of the Board and its Committees had been adequately reviewed during the year.
A number of new Succession planning independent Non-Executive directors have joined the Board since Changes to the Listing Rules for companies with controlling shareholders 2011 and they have complemented the existing Board members and contributed well to Boardroom debate, offered alternative viewpoints and challenged perceptions.
Activities during the year Recruitment processes The quality of information presented to the Board was of a high standard The Committee keeps the Boards balance of skills, knowledge and and distributed on a timely basis.
There was a good balance of focus experience and the length of service of individuals under constant review.
between strategy, the competitive marketplace, operations and governance In respect of succession planning and supplementing the skill set of the within Board meetings.
Board the Committee is responsible for the identification, evaluation and It is the intention of the Board to undertake an externally facilitated recommendation of candidates for appointment to the Board.
There has evaluation during the 2015 16 financial year in line with the Code.
been a formal process in place for a number of years and all of the current Independent Non-Executive Directors have been through the same Independence selection process.
During the year, all Non-Executive Directors were asked to complete questionnaires to enable the Committee to determine their independence.
This process involves the Committee working with the Executive Directors The Committee reviewed the questionnaires and recommended to the and the wider Board to identify and agree the criteria for the appointment Board that there be no changes to the independent status of the current of any new independent Non-Executive director to the Board.
Once agreed, Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors who the Chairman of the Committee engages with and briefs an external are considered by the Board to be independent are clearly identified on recruitment consultancy.
The external recruitment consultancy is asked page 42. to draw up a list of potential candidates for the Committee to review.
The Committee considers the list of potential candidates and agrees a As noted on page 42, James Murdoch, Chase Carey, David DeVoe and Arthur shortlist for interview by the Chairman, Group CEO and other members Siskind are not considered to be independent within the meaning of the of the Committee and Board as appropriate.
Subject to agreement by the Code.
However, following the evaluation the Committee considers that each Committee, the Committee then recommends the proposed appointee of these directors continue to make a significant contribution to Board and to the Board for consideration.
Committee composition Directors conflicts During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of all Committees.
The Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the financial On 24 July 2014, Martin Gilbert stepped down as a member of the year and concluded that Directors conflicts had been appropriately Remuneration Committee and Adine Grate was appointed in his place authorised and that the process for authorisation was operating with effect from 25 July 2014.
Following Andy Higginsons retirement effectively.
The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor at the Companys 2014 AGM it was agreed that Martin Gilbert be appointed and review potential conflicts of interest and take action to mitigate as SID on 21 November 2014.
Martin replaced Andy as a member of the them as necessary.
Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee on the same date.
Relationship Agreement Nick Ferguson was identified as a suitable successor as Chairman of Changes to the listing rules came into effect in November 2014 which the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and he succeeded require a premium listed company which has one or more controlling Andy Higginson on 21 November 2014. shareholders to have in place an agreement which is intended to ensure Board evaluation that any controlling shareholder complies with the independence provisions The Board undertakes an annual review of its effectiveness and at in the Listing Rules see page 70.
The Committee engaged external counsel least once every three years an independent third party facilitates the to assist with negotiating a relationship agreement with our controlling evaluation.
During the year the Chairman of the Committee conducted shareholder 21st Century Fox Inc. which was subsequently entered into an internal evaluation and scheduled time with each Director to discuss by the Company on 13 November 2014. the following: the effectiveness of the Board as a whole: the mix of skills and experience on the Board: the effectiveness of Board processes and procedures: development of the Companys strategy: and the performance of Board committees.
Sky plc 49 Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance report continued Bigger Picture Committee Activities during the year The Committee oversaw a number of key developments in relation Chairmans overview to Skys Bigger Picture initiatives, notably progress towards our target to help one million young people build practical skills and experience through Sky Academy in the UK and Ireland.
Sky Academy is a set of initiatives using the power of TV, creativity and sport to unlock the potential in young people.
In addition to the ongoing success of the Sky Sports Living for Sport, Sky Academy Skills Studios, Sky Academy Scholarships and Sky Academy Starting Out, the Committee oversaw the development of the new Sky Academy Careers Lab at Skys There were two meetings during the year and after each Committee West London campus which will see at least 4,000 young people aged meeting I reported to the Board on the key issues discussed.
1619 visit Sky each year to gain career insights and build employability I am pleased to report that there has been significant progress across skills.
During the year we also launched an additional Sky Academy Skills the Bigger Picture initiatives in the UK and Ireland, from building the reach, Studio at our Livingston site in Scotland, which is providing opportunities impact and awareness of Sky Academy, to the continued success of Team for another 12,000 young people in Scotland to take part, in addition to Sky and the Companys approach to responsible business.
the 12,000 in West London, each year.
Both initiatives have provided more opportunities for Sky staff to get involved in Sky Academy through Skys commitment has been recognised through its strong performance volunteering and we saw a 43% increase in volunteering this year.
in a number of investor indices during the year, including the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
The opening of Sky Academy Careers Lab supports the Committees view that the Sky Academy experiences should be providing insight into The Committee believes that the focus and scale of the work being done the diversity of roles for young people at Sky.
The Committee noted the continues to make a significant contribution to Skys ability to build a better increase in career opportunities for young people through Sky Academy business for the long term.
Starting Out with 1,100 places across its apprenticeship, graduate, Progress against all of the Bigger Picture commitments and initiatives placement and work experience programmes in 2014 15, up from almost is detailed at sky.
com biggerpicture 600 in 2013 14, which is on track against the commitment to double the number of career opportunities available for young people within Sky James Murdoch in three years.
Committee Chairman Over the year, the Committee reviewed the achievements of Sky Academy in working towards its targets for increasing participation, impact and Composition of the Committee awareness.
Of note has been the doubling of customer awareness of James Murdoch Chairman Sky Academy along with the tripling of prospect awareness over the year.
Tracy Clarke Dave Lewis Through the partnership with British Cycling, the Committee noted that over 1.7 million more people are now cycling at least once a month when compared to 2009.
The Committee also noted the role of Team Sky in Attendance at Committee Meetings using the inspiration of elite success to drive participation.
In addition, The Group CEO, Group CFO, senior executives, representatives from the Committee was informed of the Team Sky objectives to strengthen Corporate Affairs and the Bigger Picture team attend meetings at the the focus on Grand Tour performance and build fan engagement as we request of the Chairman.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary move into the last 18 months of the partnership with British Cycling.
Through its review of the Bigger Picture reporting, the Committee noted the overall progress against Skys commitments, including in relation to the Companys approach to responsible business.
The recommendations Bigger Picture Committee Agenda the Committee made to improve the communication of progress have Focus for the year has centred on the following items: been incorporated for the 2014 15 year.
A review of progress on Sky Academy Overall, the Committee continued to note the positive economic, social The impact of our partnership with British Cycling and Team Sky and environmental contribution of Sky.
For more information about Skys approach and progress over the year, go to sky.
com biggerpicture Progress as detailed in Skys Bigger Picture reporting.
