Corporate governance statement During the year the Board and its Committees have spent time with Chairmans introduction Philip and his management team during Board meetings and also in less formal discussions.
We have engaged with leaders from the Sir George Buckley five divisions during strategic reviews and the additional operating Chairman reviews introduced during 2014.
In addition, Board meetings have been held at operational sites where Board members have had theopportunity to get under the skin of the businesses and to meet with employees at all levels to hear first-hand their enthusiasm for Smiths and some of the opportunities and challenges they face.
As for the Board itself, we have a set of annual objectives against which we consider our performance and we intend to set new objectives for this coming year.
The Board also carries out annual reviews of its own performance, the performance of its Committees and the individual performances of its members.
Further details of this years review, which was externally facilitated, are contained in this Governance statement.
Strong governance and uncompromising ethical standards and I can also report that during the year Bill Seeger took on the behaviours are the hallmarks of excellent companies and this is Chairmanship of the Audit Committee and has benefited from particularly the case during times of challenging market conditions a very comprehensive director induction programme which he and internal change.
In my second year as Chairman of Smiths I completed in October 2014.
The induction of our new directors and have been proud to lead a Board that promotes good conduct and the continued improvement in the quality of information provided behaviours wherever we operate.
It is our responsibility to support toallBoard members will be key activities for 2015 16. management in its strategic aims to enable the Company to continue I am sorry to report that David Challen will retire from our Board to perform successfully and sustainably for our shareholders and after the AGM.
David has been a non-executive director of Smiths wider stakeholders and this is underpinned by our aim to operate Group for nearly eleven years and I will personally miss his wisdom tothe highest standards of corporate governance.
I will announce his successor as the Boards Senior I have referred in my Chairmans statement to the important Independent Director in due course.
changes that we have made to the Smiths Board during 2015.
In September 2014 a revised UK Corporate Governance Code TheDirectors are extremely grateful for the good work done by was issued which applies to accounting periods commencing on Peter Turner, who left us in April, and to Rob White, who stepped orafter 1 October 2014.
The Board and its Remuneration and Audit inas Interim Chief Financial Officer, pending Chris OShea joining as Committees have discussed the changes and in the light of them our new Finance Director on 18 September.
We are also grateful to have been reviewing current practices for 2015 16.
In the meantime, Philip for agreeing to remain as Chief Executive until we identified a we must expect the coming year to be a further period during which replacement of the right calibre, which I am delighted the Board has Smiths and its peers are impacted by the challenging external found in Andrew Reynolds Smith, who joins us shortly.
It is at these environment the Board will remain focused on supporting the times that Board members play an enhanced role.
The Nomination transition of our new executive directors and supporting Smiths Committee carried out rigorous processes in the selection and management in the execution of strategies in the long-term appointment of Chris and Andrew to their new roles.
The Board will interests of the Company.
continue to oversee their induction process and endeavour to provide the extra support and constructive challenge that the new executive Sir George Buckley team may require.
Chairman Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 77 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued 2014 15 in summary Succession planning for the Board and senior management has been a priority and will remain so in 2015 16, together with oversight of a focused, comprehensive induction programme for the new Executive Directors.
An external Board evaluation process was conducted during the year.
As part of its ongoing commitment to setting high ethical standards, the Board supported a number of Ethics programmes during the year, including a global Ethics Forum, the new Supplier Code of Business Ethics and a targeted Supplier Ethics awareness programme.
The Board increased its focus on cyber-security risks, including overseeing the implementation of several key initiatives and improvements as part of the Companys ongoing programme to manage this major risk area.
Site visit The Board visited Smiths Detections facility in Edgewood, The Remuneration Committee reviewed the effectiveness US as part of its programme of visits to the Groups operations of its long-term incentives and, following consultation with shareholders, is proposing a simplified approach for 2015 16.
The Board has also reviewed the new provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, which the Board will report on next year.
Governance structure Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The governance of the Group is assured by a structured hierarchy Throughout the period 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015 the Company of committees and boards that approve and monitor the strategies has been in full compliance with the September 2012 edition of and policies under which the Company operates.
The hierarchy the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published by the comprises a mixture of Board committees and various management Financial Reporting Council and available on its website https: committees and subsidiary boards, as illustrated in the diagram www.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporate-governance on page 79.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders and .
aspx except that: other stakeholders for overseeing these activities and supervising 1 The Company has not put the external audit contract out to tender management in its implementation of the policies and strategies for more than ten years.
During the year the Company has kept within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables the related issues of competitive audit tendering and audit firm risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board is also responsible for rotation under review.
Details of this review and the conclusions setting the Companys culture of ethical behaviour and compliance, the Company has drawn from it are more fully examined in the and for promoting policies and providing oversight.
The main Audit Committee report on page 90. activities of the Board are illustrated in the diagram on page 80.
2 The value of any fees received by executive directors in respect The Board of external non-executive directorships is not disclosed in the Board role and responsibilities Directors remuneration report, as this has not been considered The Board holds formal meetings at least six times a year to make relevant to the Company.
and review major business decisions and monitor current trading against the plans which it has approved, and holds additional Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7 meetings to consider the strategy of each of the divisions and the This Corporate governance statement is a section of the Group overall strategy of the Company.
Further meetings are arranged as directors report and is incorporated into the report by reference.
necessary to deal with urgent items.
The Board exercises control by Thisstatement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: determining matters specifically reserved to it in a formal schedule 2.7: and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure & which only the Board may change: these matters include the Transparency Rules.
The information required to be disclosed by acquisition or divestment of significant companies or businesses, sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Group directors report the issue of shares, significant contractual commitments, the review on pages 113 and 114 and is incorporated into this Corporate of the effectiveness of risk management processes and major governance statement by reference.
The Board sets the Companys values and standards, including the Companys Code of Business Ethics which is referred to on pages 65 to 67.
The role of the Board in the governance of the Group is illustrated in the diagram on page 79 and its main activities areoutlined in the diagram on page 80.
The executive directors and senior management team are responsible for the Companys financial performance, the day-to-day management of the Companys businesses and implementation of the strategy and direction set by the Board.
78 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Governance structure Board Responsible for reviewing and agreeing the Groups strategy, provides the leadership of the Company, supervises the management of the Company, monitors the operational and financial performance of the Company, and reports to shareholders on its stewardship of the shareholders assets Board Committees Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Reviews the structure, size and Makes recommendations to the Board Monitors the integrity of the Companys composition of the Board and Board on the Companys remuneration financial statements, its systems of committees and considers succession framework and sets the remuneration internal controls and risk management planning for directors and senior of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, and its internal and external audit management the Finance Director and senior controls management Executive Management Committees Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Acquisitions & Divestments Monitors performance of the Makes recommendations concerning Committee businesses and the functions the identification of inside information Considers, approves and sets supporting the businesses, and and the timing and method of conditions in relation to Group makes recommendations on the disclosure, and advises the Chief acquisitions and divestments within implementation of strategy, operations, Executive and the Board in accordance parameters established by the Board people and organisational development with the Companys disclosure policy and Group policies Divisional Boards John Crane Smiths Smiths Smiths Flex-Tek Medical Detection Interconnect Monitor the delivery of short-term and medium-term performance targets in accordance with the financial and operational performance targets and the strategic plans set by the Board.
A corporate member of the Executive Committee sits on each divisional board as an investor director Functional Boards Environment Security Ethics Code Investment Committee IT Global Health & Committee Compliance Assesses high-value and Governance Safety Steering Contributes to Council high-risk proposals requiring Board Committee the development Oversees the the approval of the Board Responsible Develops of Group Security implementation of or the Chief Executive, for all aspects and monitors policies and the Smiths Group including capital expenditure, of IT service implementation of associated Code of Business asset disposal and special support for the EHS policies and minimum Ethics and makes revenue expenditure projects Groups business strategy standards and recommendations including litigation costs : divisions and the monitors their to management commercial bids: contracts corporate centre.
execution and to the Audit for supplying goods and This includes Committee services: reorganisation the delivery of expenditure: contractual all day-to-day IT commitments to purchase services and the goods and services: development of research and development new IT solutions programmes: and property and services Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 79 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued Board activities Trust and values Strategy and risk Ethics: health and safety and Operational, commercial and geographic environmental management: security strategies by Division and for the Group as a whole: risk management reviews by division and at a Group level M&A Compliance and governance Portfolio strategy: current projects Board performance and effectiveness: report: post-acquisition reviews corporate governance updates: directors Board conflicts: share register: inside information and disclosure considerations: legal issues and litigation risk Operations Financials CEOs report: divisional performance Previous months trading: budgets and updates: annual operating reviews forecasts: financial risk and treasury bydivision report: tax risk and status report: approval of trading statements Trust and values Compliance and governance The Board sets the tone for the Companys culture of compliance The Board receives regular corporate governance updates with high ethical standards and with all the laws and regulations onrelevant issues, including amendments to the Listing Rules that apply to its businesses.
The Board supported the holding of and the UK Corporate Governance Code and developments an Ethics Conference in Berlin in June 2015 which addressed the inregulatory and legal regimes and sanctions.
ethical risks arising from doing business in Eastern, Central and Financials Western Europe and covered a number of topics, including issues The Board considers the Groups trading performance and arising from the use of agents and distributors.
The Board also financial risk at each meeting.
On 17 March 2015 the Board supported the launch of the Supplier Code of Business Ethics approved a cash interim dividend of 13p per ordinary share.
which sets minimum standards for supplier behaviours.
In April 2015, the Board approved a 600 million senior bond Strategy and risk offering for general corporate funding purposes and to repay The Board holds a number of dedicated strategy sessions certain existing debt.
The offering closed on 29 April 2015 and each year, focusing on long-term targets and initiatives to the Notes have an eight-year maturity and were priced at a improve the growth, efficiency and capability of each division fixedcoupon of 1.25%.
The information and proposals which are Operations provided to the Board are underpinned by a number of work The Board regularly monitors the optimal operating structure streams amongst the executive teams in each division and on a of the Group, including consideration of the interaction between Group-wide basis.
In May 2015 the Board held a new format two the role of the Corporate Centre operating under the Boards day strategy meeting at which it considered strategic options direction and subject to the Boards reserved powers and the across the Group as a whole.
Also during 2015 the Company divisions.
Since 2014 there has been a particular focus on the held a senior management conference which was focused on its resources and optimum structure required, both at a divisional Engineered for Growth strategy where topics included developing and Group level, to achieve growth.
The new post of Group markets and M&A.
Commercial Director was created in May 2014 to leverage growth In addition to the regular divisional risk reviews presented to potential across all five divisions and lead initiatives on sales theAudit Committee, at least once a year, the Board reviews risks and marketing effectiveness and expansion into key developing at a Group level.
In July this year the Group-wide risk report that markets.
The Company has built on this platform during this year was presented to the Board included analyses of risks faced by with the creation of a new role of China President in June 2015. the Company in the areas of cyber and information security, talent M&A management and succession planning and commercial and legal The Board considers a report on potential changes to the Groups risks relevant to sales bids and contracts and the measures in portfolio of assets at each meeting and additional meetings of place to mitigate against these risks.
A report on cyber-risk is the Board are convened, as necessary, to discuss significant submitted to each scheduled Board meeting.
80 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Board composition The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the As at 21 September 2015, the Board comprises Sir George Buckley executive directors present at least twice a year.
The Senior Chairman, Mr Philip Bowman Chief Executive, Mr Chris OShea Independent Director meets the other non-executive directors Finance Director, appointed on 18 September 2015 and six without the Chairman present at least annually and is available independent non-executive directors: Mr David Challen to provide support to the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary Senior Independent Director, Mr Bruno Angelici, Ms Tanya Fratto, for the other directors, if required.
Ms Anne Quinn, Mr Bill Seeger and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
During the The Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have year Mr Peter Turner resigned as Finance Director and has recently the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
been succeeded by Mr OShea.
The Company has announced that Mr Bowman will retire from the Company on 31 December 2015 Board balance and independence and his successor as Chief Executive will be Mr Andrew Reynolds There is a balance of executive and non-executive directors such Smith.
Mr Reynolds Smith is expected to start his appointment as that no individual or small group can dominate the Boards decision an executive director and as the Chief Executive on 25 September making.
Throughout the financial year at least half the Board, 2015.
Mr Bowman is expected to resign from the Board and step excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent non-executive down as Chief Executive on 24 September 2015 but will remain as directors.
The ratio of non-executive directors to executive directors an employee of the Company until the end of December 2015, in changed from 7:2 to 7:1 after the departure of Mr Turner in April accordance with his contract.
Mr Challen intends to retire as a non- 2015.
The ratio returned to 7:2 with the appointment of Mr OShea executive director at the conclusion of the AGM in November 2015. as Finance Director on 18 September 2015.
Although the Board does Biographies of the current directors, giving details of their experience not endorse the setting of rigid quotas to achieve diversity, it does and other main commitments, are set out on pages 74 to 76. believe in the merits of a mixture of age: professional qualifications and experience: interests: and personalities in order to create a The Board and its committees have the appropriate balance of breadth of skill and character on the Board.
The diagrams below skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to illustrate the good balance of longer standing Board members enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities and more recent appointments, and the diversity in gender and effectively.
The wide-ranging experience and backgrounds of the nationality.
The individual qualifications, strengths and experiences non-executive directors ensure that they can debate and constructively of the Directors are included in their biographies on pages 74 to 76. challenge management in relation to both the development of strategy and the evaluation of performance against the goals set by the Board.
Board balance, diversity and tenure Nationality The Smiths Group Board reduced from Five nationalities are represented on the Board United Kingdom, France, Australia, United nine to eight members in 2014 15 following States and New Zealand, although the international experience of Board members is much the departure of Peter Turner as Finance wider than this.
It will revert to nine members in September 2015 with the appointment of Chris OShea.
The charts below illustrate the diversity of the Board in relation to tenure, United Kingdom France Australia United States New Zealand gender and nationality as at 31 July 2015.
Executive balance Gender balance Board tenure 1 Executive 13% 1 Female 25% 1 From 0 to 2 years 25% 2 Non-executive 87% 2 Male 75% 2 From 3 to 6 years 37% 3 From 7 to 10 years 38% The majority of the Board are independent There are two women on the Board, non-executives, who bring a wealth of skills Anne Quinn and Tanya Fratto.
Further details on the tenure of each director andexperience to Smiths.
1 1 1 3 2 2 2 Tenure of the Board The Board and Nomination Committee regularly review the mix of skills and experience on the Board.
The chart illustrates the good balance of longer standing Board members and more recent appointments, providing both continuity and fresh perspectives.
2 years 0 months Sir George Buckley 5 years 1 month B. F. J. Angelici 7 years 7 months P. Bowman 10 years 10 months D. J. Challen 3 years 1 month T. D. Fratto 6 years 0 months A. C. Quinn 1 year 2 months W. C. Seeger 9 years 2 months Sir Kevin Tebbit 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 81 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board Appointments to the Board committees, the need to refresh membership of the committees The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent is taken into account.
The table on page 81 indicates the service, procedure for the appointment of new directors, which are made to 31 July 2015, of each of the directors.
Each of the non-executive on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for directors is considered to be independent and Sir George Buckley the benefits of diversity, including gender.
This procedure was was considered to be independent at the time of his appointment followed in the selection and appointment of Mr Chris OShea, as asChairman.
In the light of the lengths of service of Mr Challen and an executive director and Finance Director on 18 September 2015, Sir Kevin Tebbit on the Board over 10 years and 9 years, respectively, and the selection of Mr Andrew Reynolds Smith, who is expected the Board and each of its committees undertook a rigorous review of to be appointed as an executive director and Chief Executive their performance in order to evaluate their respective contributions on 25September 2015.
Further information in relation to the to the Board and to the committees on which they sit.
The Board is recruitment of Mr OShea and Mr Reynolds Smith is contained completely satisfied that both Mr Challen and Sir Kevin continue to in the Nomination Committee report on pages 92 and 93. be independent directors and valuable members of the Board and The Board is satisfied that the directors are able to allocate sufficient its committees.
During the review, the Board also determined that time to their responsibilities relating to the Company.
During the Mr Challen should remain in the role of Senior Independent Director year, the Board considered the other engagements and proposed until his retirement from the Board.
Since that date, Mr Challen has engagements of the directors as part of the director conflicts of informed the Board of his intention not to stand for re-election at the interest procedure, as further described below.
Annual General Meeting in November 2015.
His replacement as the Senior Independent Director will be announced in due course.
Re-election All directors stand for election by the shareholders at the first Chairman and Chief Executive AGM following their appointment.
The Board has resolved that The Board has established clearly defined roles for the Chairman all directors who are willing to continue in office will stand for and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership re-election by the shareholders each year at the AGM.
Non-executive of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
directors are appointed for a specified term of three years, subject Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives now to annual re-election at each AGM, and reappointment for responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial a second three-year term is not automatic.
Any term for a nonobjectives approved by the board.
executive director beyond six years is subject to a particularly rigorous review.
The Chairman has confirmed that, following the Key roles and responsibilities performance reviews undertaken in 2014, the performance of Chairman each of the directors standing for re-election at this years AGM The Chairmans responsibilities include: continues to be effective and that they each continue to demonstrate Leadership of the Board commitment to their respective roles and dedicate the time Setting the agenda and tone for the Board necessary to perform their duties.
Promoting high standards of integrity and corporate governance Conflicts of interest Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board Under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act a director must avoid Chief Executive a situation where he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect The Chief Executives responsibilities include: interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys Ensuring implementation of the strategic and financial interests.
The requirement is very broad, and could apply, for objectives approved by the Board example, if a director becomes a director of another company or Providing leadership on all executive management matters a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of affecting the Company public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where Chairing the Executive Committee appropriate and where the articles of association contain a provision Ensuring the Companys diverse stakeholder relationships to this effect.
Article 65 of the Companys Articles of Association including with shareholders, employees and customers provides that the directors can authorise potential conflicts areproperly managed ofinterest.
Senior Independent Director The Board has put procedures in place for directors to report any The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include: potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman their authorisation where appropriate.
Each director is aware of Acting as an intermediary for the directors where necessary the requirement to seek approval of the Board for any new conflict Being available to shareholders if they have concerns situations, as they may arise.
The process of formally reviewing which cannot be resolved through the Chairman or conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given including such executivemanagement conditions as the Board may determine in each case, is repeated Conducting an annual review of the Chairmans performance twice a year.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board Company Secretary minutes and in a register of director conflicts which is maintained The Company Secretarys responsibilities include: bythe Company Secretary.
Maintaining the Groups governance and listing rule complianceframework Ensuring that all Board and Board committee meetings are properly held and advising the Board on matters of governance and on legislative and regulatory developments Assisting the Chairman and the Chief Executive in ensuring that the directors are provided with all relevant information in a timelymanner Organising new director induction and ongoing director trainingrequirements 82 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Board meetings Newly appointed directors undergo an induction programme to The table below shows the number of Board meetings held during ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding the financial year ended 31 July 2015 and, opposite each directors of the Company and its activities.
They undertake briefing sessions name, the number of meetings they were eligible to attend and the on corporate governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, finance number actually attended.
and risk management and HR, as well as meetings and site visits to business locations.
Each directors individual experience and Board meetings background is taken into account in developing a programme Eligible to tailored to his or her own requirements.
For example, Bill Seeger attend Attended was well versed in the obligations of UK-listed companies by virtue Sir George Buckley Chairman 12 12 of his recent experience as the Finance Director of GKN plc, so the P. Bowman 12 10 focus of his induction was on getting to know the Smiths products, P. A. Turner 9 9 businesses and people.
The Chairman consults with the directors B. F. J. Angelici 12 11 on their respective training and development requirements.
The D. J. Challen 12 12 suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company T. D. Fratto 12 11 Secretary who is charged with facilitating the induction of new A. C. Quinn 12 12 directors and with assisting in the ongoing training and development W. C. Seeger 12 12 of all directors.
Sir Kevin Tebbit 12 12 Includes two occasions where matters were conducted by written resolutions approved by all members of the Board Mr Bowman did not attend two meetings: he did not attend a meeting at which his retirement from the Board and as Chief Executive was the only agenda item nor did he attend a subsequent meeting at which the appointment of his successor was the only agenda item Mr Turner resigned on 24 April 2015 Mr Angelici and Ms Fratto were each unable to attend non-scheduled meetings, called at short notice, due to prior commitments Following Peter Turners resignation on 24 April 2015, Rob White was appointed as Interim Chief Financial Officer and attended two Board meetings in that capacity during the remainder of the financial year.
During the year, the Divisional General Managers, Heads of Corporate Departments and other external advisers were invited toattend certain Board meetings, as and when required.
Board visits The Board regards attendance at meetings as only one measure of directors contributions to the Company.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the directors attend other meetings and make site visits during the year.
For example, Bill Seeger completed more than 15 site visits in the USA and Europe as part of his induction programme and met employees and management from all five divisions and BIS, the Groups IT function.
In November 2014 the Board met at the John Crane headquarters in Chicago, USA and in July 2015, the Board visited the Smiths Detection manufacturing facilities and offices in Edgewood, Maryland, USA.
Induction, information and professional development The Board is provided with detailed information up to a week in advance on matters to be considered at its meetings and non-executive directors have ready access to the executive directors and other senior corporate staff.
Non-executive directors are also provided with information and updates between meetings.
Regular site visits are arranged and non-executive directors are encouraged to visit sites independently.
During site visits, briefings are arranged Board visit to Smiths Detection, Edgewood, USA and the directors are free to discuss aspects of the business with As part of its 2014 15 programme of visits to the Groups employees at all levels.
businesses, the Board visited the head office and manufacturing facilities of Smiths Detection in Edgewood in July 2015.
Thevisit included updates on strategy and performance from senior management, a tour of the facility and the opportunity tomeetemployees.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 83 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The current directorships in listed companies and other significant Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take independent commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors professional advice at the Companys expense should this be are shown on pages 74 to 76.
During the year, Bruno Angelici required.
Tailored induction programmes have been designed for was appointed as Chairman of Vectura Group plc: Tanya Fratto Chris OShea and Andrew Reynolds Smith in order to ease their retired from the board of Boart Longyear Ltd: and Bill Seeger transitions into their new roles and to expedite their integration was appointed as a non-executive director and Chairman of the intothe Group.
Audit & Risk Committee of Spectris plc.
It is confirmed that the Chairman and the non-executive directors have sufficient time Performance evaluation tofulfil their commitments to the Company and that no executive The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance director holds more than one non-executive directorship of another and that of its committees and each director.
evaluation was conducted by Ms Sheena Crane, an external consultant with whom the Company has no other connection.
Relations with shareholders and other capital providers Theresults of the evaluation were presented to the Board in Dialogue with shareholders November 2014.
Ms Cranes evaluation included interviews The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Director, with Board members and covered such topics as strategy and InvestorRelations communicate with institutional investors through the process of developing strategy: monitoring of financial and analysts briefings and extensive investor roadshows in the UK, non-financial matters: risk management: Board balance and US and continental Europe, as well as timely Stock Exchange composition: succession planning: executive remuneration: and announcements, meetings with management and site visits, overall working efficiency of the Board.
The presentation highlighted asshown in the table below.
Members of the Board, and in particular the need for closer alignment between the Chairman, the executive non-executive directors, are kept informed of investors views, in the directors and other Board members on vision and strategy and main through distribution of analysts and brokers briefings.
At least a need for the Board to focus on succession: technology and twice a year a report is made to the Board on the number and types innovation: and cyber-security.
This has been borne in mind in of meetings between the Company and institutional shareholders.
preparing a framework of periodic agenda items which guides The Board is confident that this process enables the non-executive the drafting of the agendas for Board meetings.
As our new Chief directors to maintain a balanced understanding of the views and Executive will have joined the Board by the time of the next review concerns of major shareholders.
The Chairman held a number and the last review was conducted at a time of change on the Board, ofcalls and meetings with shareholders regarding the recruitment this years Board evaluation will again be externally facilitated.
process for the new executive directors.
It is expected the new Chief Executive and Finance Director will continue the dialogue with The Board continued with its practice of setting itself a series of shareholders in the UK, US and continental Europe as part of the written objectives for the financial year.
Those for the year ended 2015 16 investor relations programme.
The Chairman, the Senior 31July 2015 included objectives relating to succession planning Independent Director and the other non-executive directors are andto creating a vision for the Smiths of the future that builds available to meet shareholders on request.
onthedrive and imagination shown by the Smiths of the past.
Investor relations activities timeline 2014 15 Roadshows Presentations June 2015 US, Canada equity April 2015 UK equity & debt, France debt, Germany debt, Netherlands debt March 2015 UK, US equity Interim results December 2014 Private client brokers November 2014 Private client brokers AGM October 2014 UK, US, Canada, Germany equity September 2014 UK equity Annual results During financial year 2014 15, senior management and the Contact with investors analysts investor relations team had contact with over 300 analysts 1 United Kingdom 52% andinvestors.
2 US and Canada 35% 4 3 3 Rest of Europe 10% 4 Rest of World 3% 1 2 84 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Dialogue with other capital providers The Company has in place internal control and risk management The Company values the contribution of its committed lending systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process banks and bond holders to the achievement of its strategic aims.
and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
The Finance Director and the Director, Tax and Treasury meet These systems include policies and procedures that: pertain to with and communicate pro-actively with this investor base and the the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately rating agencies, Standard & Poors and Moodys, on a regular basis and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide and also on a formal, annual basis with the rating agencies.
They reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary communicate to the debt markets generally via investor roadshows to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance at the time of financing activity.
Committed banks are invited to the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : require biannual presentations of its trading results and the Capital Markets representatives of the businesses to certify that their reported Days to enable them to keep informed of business strategy and information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the meet both senior corporate and divisional management.
Members business and its results for the period: and review and reconcile of the Board are kept informed of the current credit views of debt reported data.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring investors, generally, and the rating agencies, specifically, by regular these internal control and risk management systems.
commentary and financial metric reporting to meetings.
The Companys internal control is based on assessment of risk and Constructive use of the Companys Annual General Meeting a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor AGM compliance with procedures.
The procedures for accountability and All directors normally attend the AGM and shareholders are invited control are outlined below.
to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors after the The Companys internal control systems are designed to meet the formal proceedings have ended.
The Board values the AGM as an Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and, opportunity to meet with those shareholders who are able to attend by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance and to take their questions.
against material loss to the Company or material misstatement in At the 2014 AGM all directors, including the Chairs of the Audit, the financial accounts.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees, were available to The Group has an embedded process for the identification, answer shareholders questions.
The notice of the AGM and related evaluation and management of significant business risks.
The papers were sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before process is reviewed through the Audit Committee and monitored the meeting.
by the Group Internal Audit department.
The Company has during The 2015 AGM will be held on 17 November 2015 and is an the year identified and evaluated the key risks and has ensured that opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group effective controls and procedures are in place to manage these risks.
It is intended that there shall be a poll vote In the highly regulated environment of the industries in which on each resolution at the 2015 AGM.
The audited, final results of the Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed the poll votes will be released to the London Stock Exchange and operating procedures manuals and are reinforced by training published on the Companys website, www.
These are designed to ensure compliance not only asis practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
with the regulatory requirements but also with general principles Accountability and audit ofbusinessintegrity.
Financial reporting A key element in any system is communication: the executive The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable directors and senior corporate staff meet regularly with assessment of the Companys position and prospects in the Annual representatives from the businesses to address financial, human Report and in interim and other public reports.
The directors are resource, legal, risk management and other control issues.
required to explain in the Annual Report the basis on which the Company both generates and preserves value over the longer term Throughout the financial year the Board, through the Audit and its strategy for delivering the Companys objectives.
TheBoard Committee, reviews the effectiveness of internal control and the is satisfied that it has met these obligations in this Annual Report.
In addition to financial and business reports, A summary of the directors responsibilities for the financial the Board has reviewed mediumand longer-term strategic plans: statements is set out on page 120. management development programmes: reports on key operational issues: tax: treasury: risk management: insurance: legal matters: The going concern statement required by the Code is set out in the and Audit Committee reports, including internal and external Group directors report on page 113. auditors reports.
Internal control Audit Committee and auditors The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent The Audit Committee makes formal and transparent ofthe significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its particular arrangements for considering how financial reporting and objectives and ensuring that there are sound risk management internal control principles are applied and for maintaining an and internal control systems in place to safeguard shareholders appropriate relationship with the independent external auditors, investments and the Companys assets.
The effectiveness of the  LLP.
internal control system is monitored periodically and formally reviewed at least annually by the Audit Committee, covering all Remuneration material controls, including financial, operational and compliance Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out on controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee page 93 and the Directors remuneration report is on pages 94 to 111. carried out such a review during the year ended 31 July 2015.
Board Committees The Company has established the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees of the Board.
Each such committee meets regularly in accordance with its respective terms of reference.
Each committees responsibilities, activities and membership are described below in this Corporate governance statement.
The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are available upon request and on the Companys website, www.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 85 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued Committee membership Audit Committee The members of the Committee during the 2014 15 financial yearwere: Bill Seeger Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed last re-appointment W. C. Seeger Chairman 12 May 2014 B. F. J. Angelici 1 July 2013 D. J. Challen 21 September 2014 T. D. Fratto 1 July 2015 A. C. Quinn 1 August 2015 Sir Kevin Tebbit 12 July 2015 All members served on the Committee throughout the year.
MrSeeger took over Chairmanship of the Committee from MrChallen after the AGM in November 2014.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors and, in the view of the Board, have recent and relevant Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee financial and accounting experience, gained from their respective I am delighted to have assumed the role of Chairman of the business activities in international businesses.
In particular, AuditCommittee this past year.
I would particularly like to thank BillSeeger was the Group Finance Director of GKN plc, which David Challen for his past ten years of leadership of the Committee, post he had held for over six years before his retirement in 2014. during which time he has skilfully guided us through significant Furtherdetails of the qualifications and experience of the members changes in the Groups composition as well as numerous of the Committee are contained in the biographies of the directors developments in financial and governance regulations.
During the year, the Committee has conducted a thorough review of There have been no changes to the membership of the Committee its procedures and processes.
As a result, a number of adjustments since the financial year-end.
have been made in order to align them more closely with the requirements of the 2012 and 2014 editions of the UK Corporate Meetings and attendance Governance Code.
A key change for 2015 16 will be the introduction The Committee met three times during the 2014 15 financial year, of a fourth annual meeting of the Audit Committee which will bring with the meetings timed to align with the financial reporting and together the risk reviews for all the Groups businesses into a single, audit cycles of the Company, namely: the approval of the Annual focused session.
This will be of particular benefit as the Board will Report in September: the approval of the half-year report in March: be complying with the Corporate Governance Code requirement and the presentation of the pre-year-end early warnings report to explain its long-term viability assessment of the Group in the from the external auditor,  LLP PwC, 2016Annual Report.
In view of the changes in corporate governance and financial reporting requirements, the Committee will add a fourth meeting Throughout the year we have benefited from very productive toits schedule each year.
The additional meeting will be held in relationships with our external auditor, the Internal Audit function May, with the existing schedule of meetings in September, March and the Groups management.
This year has seen a strengthening and July being retained to align with the Companys financial and of the capabilities of the Internal Audit department, with enhanced reportingcycles.
internal resources and a reduced reliance on outsourcing.
Internal Audit has also extended its remit to include the assessment of longer The attendance record of the members of the Committee was: term programme management.
The contributions of PwC, Internal Attendance Audit and Group senior management have all enhanced the effective operation of the Committee and its oversight of the Companys W. C. Seeger Chairman 3 3 controls and risk management.
In a business with the scale, diversity B. F. J. Angelici 3 3 and geographical spread of Smiths Group, issues relating to internal D. J. Challen 3 3 financial and other risk controls, codes of conduct and ethical T. D. Fratto 3 3 standards arise from time to time for review by the Committee.
A. C. Quinn 3 3 We are satisfied that the Group has systems in place to identify Sir Kevin Tebbit 3 3 such issues promptly and that management has the appropriate More information can be found at processes and resources available to address them effectively.
com The Committee has continued to review the changing rules and regulations regarding the external auditor and its own role In order to maintain effective communications between all relevant in the governance of the Group audit.
The Board has accepted parties, the following were frequent attendees at the meetings: the Committees recommendation that the most practical and the Chairman of the Board: business-driven approach to our external auditor appointment would be to conduct a competitive tendering in 2019.
This timeframe would the Group Finance Director: coincide with the normal audit partner rotation and comply with the the Group Financial Controller: auditor rotation transition rules.
Review of the independence and effectiveness of our external auditor will continue on an annual basis.
the Company Secretary: We look forward to working with our new executive directors, the Director of Internal Audit: the management team and the auditors as we strive to achieve the Group Director of Tax and Treasury: and continuous improvement in our financial and risk controls and our high standards of corporate governance.
the Group audit partners of the external auditor, PwC.
86 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 In addition, annual presentations on risk management were given the effectiveness of the Groups policies on internal control and to the Committee by the divisional general manager of each of the risk management systems in the evaluation and management Groups five divisions and the head of Business Information Services ofsignificant business risk: BIS, the Groups IT function.
The Senior Vice-President & General statements on the assessment and management of risks and Counsel Ethics & Compliance reported to the Committee on the oninternal controls: implementation of the Business Ethics Programme: the work of the Companys Code Compliance Council: and the investigations into the Groups implementation of the Companys Code of Business allegations of non-compliance with the Ethics Code, including issues Ethics and Business Ethics Programme, including the Groups raised through the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
arrangements for its employees to raise any issues of concern and the process for the investigation and resolution of any such At the conclusion of the meetings, the representatives of the external issues:and auditor and the Director of Internal Audit were each given the opportunity to discuss matters without executive management being the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and systems and present.
The Director of Internal Audit, the Senior Vice-President & controls for preventing bribery.
General Counsel Ethics & Compliance and the external auditor The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports formally to have direct access to the Chairman and the members of the the full Board on the activities of the Committee after each Committee should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal Committeemeeting.
Written terms of reference that define the Committees authority and The members of the Committee also had the opportunity to meet responsibility are available on our website at www.
separately at the end of each meeting to discuss any relevant matters in the absence of all the invitees.
Financial and narrative reporting During the financial year, the Committee has: The members of the Committee receive briefing notes from the Company and from PwC on all relevant developments in company considered information presented by management on key law: governance standards: and international and domestic financial matters of accounting judgements and policies, adopted in accounting practices and regulations.
respect of the Companys 2014 Annual Report and 2015 half-year report, and relevant changes to accounting standards and agreed All the members of the Committee attended the Annual General theirappropriateness: Meeting of the Company in November 2014. discussed with PwC the firms audit reports and noted the key Outside of the formal meetings schedule, the Chairman of the Audit accounting matters and significant judgements highlighted by Committee has met separately with the senior management of the PwCin respect of each set of financial statements: Company, the representatives of PwC and the Director of Internal Audit to discuss the Companys financial reporting and governance.
reviewed documentation prepared to support the statement on internal control in the 2014 Annual Report and was satisfied that Role and responsibilities the Company was operating an effective system of internal controls The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity of to manage risk: the financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk management systems.
This includes reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern responsibility for monitoring and reviewing: judgement in the 2014 Annual Report and concluded that the accounts had been properly prepared on a going concern basis: integrity of the Groups financial statements: the significant reporting issues and judgements contained therein: and the reviewed the processes and activities undertaken by the Group reports of the external and internal auditors: inorder to ensure that the 2014 Annual Report, taken as a whole, would be fair, balanced and understandable and concluded that the bases for the Boards statement on the adoption of the going the quality and range of information provided in the Annual Report concern basis of accounting and its description of the information was sufficient to enable shareholders to assess properly the contained in the Annual Report as enabling a fair, balanced and Groups performance, business model and strategy: understandable assessment of the Group: examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the financial announcements released by the Company and any adequacy, clarity and completeness of the 2014 Annual Report and reports or returns made by the Group to financial regulators: 2015 half-year report and the preliminary announcement of the the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external annual results: auditor, including auditor independence and objectivity: auditor reported to the Board its views on significant financial reporting compliance with relevant ethical and professional standards issues and judgements applied to the 2014 Annual Report, the 2015 andguidance: audit fees: and provision of non-audit services: half-year report and the associated information releases including the terms of engagement of the external auditor: matters communicated to the Committee by the external auditor : the scope of the annual external audit plan and the quality and reviewed the bases for and the content of the Strategic Report, experience of the external audit team assigned to its execution: the operational review and the corporate governance statements contained in the 2014 Annual Report: the reports of the external auditor, including any major issues orreservations and significant accounting and audit judgements satisfied itself that the 2014 Annual report was consistent within highlighted therein: itself and that the front half and the back half of the publication were thoughtfully cohesive: and the effectiveness of the external audit process, making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or in addition to the press releases for the preliminary annual results re-appointment or the removal of the external auditor: for 2013 14 and the 2015 half-year results, reviewed the Companys press releases and announcements containing price-sensitive the remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function material and reports made to financial regulators during the year.
 of the resources available thereto: Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 87 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued Subsequent to the end of the financial year, the Committee has also External audit reviewed and reported to the Board on the reports and information In relation to the activities of the external auditor, during the financial supplied by management and by PwC on the judgements and year, the Committee: policies adopted for the 2015 Annual Report and the content of that considered PwCs audit report on the 2014 Annual report: its review document.
The Committee considered that the quality and range of of the 2015 half-year results: and its Early Warning report on the the material included within the 2015 Annual Report was sufficient 2014 15 audit: to provide shareholders with the necessary information for them to assess properly the Groups position, performance, business model monitored PwCs execution of the audit plans for 2013 14 and and strategy and that the report was presented in such a way as 2014 15: could be considered fair, balanced and understandable.
This was discussed all major issues identified by PwC during the course considered to meet the requirements of the 2014 edition of the UK of the audit, including the key accounting and audit judgements Corporate Governance Code the new Code, although the new taken by management and managements responses to the Code does not apply to the 2015 Annual Report.
The Committee auditfindings: approved the statement on internal controls and the going concern statement: and the content of the announcement of the financial agreed materiality and fide minimis levels with PwC: results for 2014 15. considered the draft letter of representation from the Corporate governance Company to PwC in connection with the audit of the 2013 14 During the year, the Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys financialstatements: compliance with its governance obligations and its plans to comply reviewed the non-audit fees paid to PwC and found them to have with forthcoming changes thereto.
In particular, the Committee has: been incurred in accordance with the policy on the provision of monitored the changes introduced by the Company to ensure full non-audit services: compliance in the 2014 Annual Report with the requirements of conducted the annual review of the independence and objectivity of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report PwC and was satisfied that PwCs behaviour had been professional Regulations 2013: the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance in both respects: Code the Code : and The Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 determined that PwC remained effective in its role as external all of which also govern the 2015 Annual report: auditor: and considered the amendments to and developments in the recommended to the Board that PwC be proposed for reInternational Financial Reporting Standards that affected the appointment as external auditor at the 2014 AGM for a further year.
2014 15 financial year: and the proposals to replace the UK GAAP Subsequent to the financial year-end, the Committee has accounting framework: considered the same items in respect of the 2015 Annual Report and reviewed the procedural changes required to ensure full recommended that PwC be proposed for re-appointment as external compliance in the 2016 Annual Report with the requirements auditor at the 2015 AGM.
of the new Code and the early adoption of some of the changes The Committee considered that each of the Companys directors in the 2015 Annual Report: and had taken all necessary steps to ensure that he or she was aware reviewed the implications of the Competition & Markets Authoritys ofall pertinent audit information and that such information had Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation beenproperly communicated to PwC in a timely manner.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Martin Hodgsons five-year tenure as Group audit engagement Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA Order.
leader and statutory auditor expired with the completion of the In relation to the new Code, the Committee noted and approved 2014 audit.
The Committee met with Andy Kemp and approved his theCompanys plan to introduce the long-term viability assessment appointment as Martin Hodgsons successor.
It also approved the and the detailed description of the strategies for managing and transition plan proposed by PwC to manage the change in audit mitigating principal risks and threats in the 2015 16 financial year.
Andy Kemp shadowed the 2014 Group audit and has taken Certain other changes introduced by the new Code have already over as Group audit engagement leader following the signing of the been adopted by the Company and have been reflected in the 2014 audit report.
External audit plan The CMA Order will apply to the Companys 2015 16 financial year.
PwC presented its Group Audit Plan for the financial year ending Under the transitional provisions of the order, the competitive audit 31July 2015.
The Committee discussed with PwC: tendering regulations will require the Company to put the external its risk matrix and the factors affecting the various audit risk auditor role out to tender by 2023.
The Committee has decided not assessments: the proposed audit scope, taking into consideration to recommend a competitive tender in the short term in order to statutory audit requirements, financially significant components enable the Companys next Chief Executive and recently appointed and significant risk components and central programme testing: Finance Director the opportunity to fully acquaint themselves with the Group.
The Committee took into account that the current audit materiality levels: engagement partner has had a full year in the role, in addition to his the testing of IT controls within the ERP environments in Detection, experience in shadowing the 2014 audit.
The Committees proposal John Crane EMEA and Medical: and for a competitive audit tender and auditor rotation is described in the External Auditor effectiveness and reappointment section below.
the impact of changes in governance regulations and .
88 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 The Committee noted the focus on the audit risks associated The Committees review of the independence of the external with revenue recognition: certain litigation risks: impairment of auditorincluded: goodwill: and management override of controls.
PwCs proposal examining written confirmation from PwC that they remained to maintain the overall materiality level at 18m approximately independent and objective within the context of applicable 3.5% of headline operating profit and a fide-minimis reporting professional standards: threshold of 500,000 was accepted as prudent and appropriate.
The Committee considered the resources proposed by PwC, considering the tenure of the audit engagement partner, who including the qualities, seniorities and experience of the audit team isrequired to rotate every five years in line with ethical standards members, to be consistent with the scope of the audit.
It was noted andhas so rotated following the conclusion of the 2014 audit : that the Audit Plan had been discussed and co-ordinated with monitoring the ratio between the fees for audit work and non-audit Internal Audit.
Through a combination of full-scope audits, specified services 17% in 2013 14 : and audit procedures and local GAAP statutory audits, business units producing 88% of the Groups forecast headline operating profit checking that management confirmed compliance with the Groups for2014 15 would be audited by PwC under the 2015 Audit Plan.
policies on the employment of former employees of PwC and the use of PwC for non-audit work.
The fee structure and terms of the audit engagement letter, which had been agreed with Smiths management, and PwCs assessment As a result of this review, the Committee concluded that PwC of its independence were considered appropriate for the work remained appropriately independent in the role of external auditor.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2014 15 can be found in note 2 Non-audit services tothe 2015 Annual report.
Non-audit fees incurred during 2014 15 In order to safeguard auditor independence, the Committee has amounted to 0.6m which related principally to M&A work and tax monitored compliance with the Group policy on the engagement services.
Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees totalled 12%.
of external audit firms for non-audit work.
Non-audit services All such activities remained within the policy approved by the Board.
are divided into three categories in relation to the incumbent External auditor effectiveness and reappointment externalauditor: The Committees review of the performance of PwC and the Pre-approved but subject to the Group Finance Directors approval effectiveness of the external audit process included consideration for projects likely to exceed 10,000 where the threat to auditor of the views and opinions of the executive directors and senior objectivity and independence is considered low, such as regulatory management on PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas including compliance work and tax advisory work: independence and objectivity, audit strategy and planning, conduct and communication, audit findings and feedback, and expertise Permitted but subject to the approval of the Audit Committee for and resourcing.
The Committee also considered the results of the projects over 10,000 and competitive tendering for projects over survey, conducted by PwCs independent client perspective team 100,000 such as larger acquisitions: corporate reorganisation: which is separate from the audit team, of 23 key contacts within the tax structuring: and IT risk and security: Company on the outcome of the 2013 14 Group audit and the results Not permitted such as book keeping: financial system design: of the review meetings between PwCs independent senior partner actuarial services: management functions: and internal audit.
and the Companys Chief Executive, Finance Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The results were positive and confirmed that The Committee recognises that non-audit services falling in the both PwC and its audit process were appropriate and effective and Pre-approved category can be purchased more cost-effectively that the relationships between the audit teams and the Companys from and completed more efficiently by the incumbent auditor due businesses were strengthening.
The Committee recognised the to the audit firms existing knowledge of the Group and its systems.
challenges in ensuring consistency in the audit process across the TheCommittee is satisfied that the non-audit work performed by whole Group and the need to continue to improve communication PwC during the financial year had been properly assessed and atlocal and divisional levels.
authorised in accordance with the Group policy.
The Committee received and considered the Independence Letters, External auditor independence sent by PwC in September 2014 in respect of its 2013 14 audit and The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation September 2015 in respect of the 2014 15 audit, and concurred with and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit which PwCs opinion that it had complied with all relevant regulatory and are designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the professional requirements and that the firms objectivity had not external auditor.
These policies also regulate the appointment by been compromised.
theGroup of former employees of PwC and set out the approach tobe taken when using the external auditor for non-audit work.
The Committee reviewed the findings in the Financial Reporting Councils May 2015 Audit Quality Inspection report on PwC.
The external auditor is not permitted to provide services which could Itevaluated a summary of PwCs internal quality control procedures result in: and noted that the lead engagement partner, Andy Kemp, is the external auditor auditing its own firms work: accountable directly to the Committee for the execution of the audit.
The Committee satisfied itself that the quality of the work the external auditor making management decisions for the Group: exhibited by the firm and its commitment to improvements were a mutuality of interests being created: or ofasufficiently high standard.
the external auditor being put in the role of advocate for the Group.
The Committee considered the risk that PwC would withdraw from the audit market and found it acceptable in the short and mediumterms.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 89 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued PwC has been the Companys external auditor since its formation Internal audit in 1998, although a predecessor organisation of PwC held office as During the financial year the Committee: sole auditor in 1997.
In determining whether to recommend PwC received progress reports on the execution of the 2014 15 Internal for reappointment as auditor in 2015, the Committee took into Audit Plan which comprised 55 site audits, one programme consideration the following factors: management review, two process reviews and one IT review : the length of PwCs appointment and the guidance on the new audit considered and approved managements candidate for the post firm rotation regulations and proposals: of Director of Internal Audit following the transfer of the previous the results of the effectiveness review detailed above: incumbent to a senior role within the Group finance team : the qualities and experience of the new audit partner following the discussed the recommendations made by the internal auditors: rotation of the previous audit partner whose five-year term expired noted the progress being made by management in reducing the at the completion of the 2013 14 audit, and numbers of aged outstanding recommendations: the changes in the executive management team during 2014 15 reviewed the effectiveness of Internal Audit as a part of the and 2015 16, in particular the appointment of a new Finance Companys risk management process, including its use of KPMG Director who took up his post on 18 September 2015 and the as an external contractor to provide additional resources and recruitment of a new Chief Executive who is expected to assume capabilities in certain overseas audit visits: that position on 25 September 2015 and the appointments of a newDirector of Internal Audit and a new Company Secretary.
considered the remit of Internal Audit, its budget and resources and the nature and extent of the outsourcing to KPMG: and Taking these elements into account and acknowledging that it would take around 18 months to stage a competitive audit tender from approved the 2015 16 Internal Audit Plan 54 site visits, five initial planning to final selection, the Committee concluded a that programme management reviews, two process reviews and five it would not be practical to put the auditor appointment for 2015 out ITreviews, including the proposed audit scope, approach, coverage to competitive tender at this stage and b that it was appropriate and allocation of resources and the proposal to expand the number to recommend to the Board that the reappointment of PwC as the and quality of staff employed within Internal Audit.
Companys auditor for a further year be proposed to shareholders Treasury and tax atthe 2015 AGM.
During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the report of Recognising the various requirements in the Code, the CMA Order theTreasury department of the Group on financial risk and treasury and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills proposals management, noting the Groups borrowing position and debt to implement the EUs June 2014 Audit Directive and Regulation, capacity.
The extension of the Groups revolving credit facility to 2020, the Committee concluded that it would be in the best interests of at no cost, was duly noted.
the Company to plan for a competitive audit tender for the rotation The Committee also received status reports on tax risk from the of the external auditor in 2019.
This would coincide with the end Groups Tax department, noting the assessments of compliance, tax of the current PwC audit partners five-year term and enable the audit risk, tax provisions and international tax rates.
The Companys Company to plan its implementation of the final audit firm rotation assessment of its appetite for tax risk was also reviewed.
Notwithstanding the recommendation for 2019, theCommittee will keep the performance of the incumbent Ethics audit .
During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the annual report on the Group-wide Ethics programme.
The report included details of The Board has considered and adopted the Committees the investigations into allegations of non-compliance with the Ethics recommendations to propose the reappointment of PwC as auditor Code and whistleblowing events, including bribery and corruption in 2015 and to plan for a competitive audit tender and auditor investigations.
It noted that a new communications programme rotation in 2019. had been introduced during 2014 and that further programmes There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice were being developed in order to refresh and extend the scope of ofexternal auditor.
The volume of complaints and reports received in 2014 was in line with the numbers recorded in 2011 and 2012 Internal control and risk management but represented a significant increase in comparison with the In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Committee: unusually low level of complaints filed in 2013.
The year-on-year reported to the Board on its evaluation of the Groups risk increase, in part at least, was considered to be indicative of the assurance framework and embedded risk management success of the communications programme in maintaining and processes, based on consideration of the reports by PwC on the developing the culture of ethical behaviour and compliance across Groups control environment and ERP systems and on fraud risk: the Group.
TheCommittee commended the objective of the Ethics the audits undertaken by Internal Audit: and the risk management programme to promote high ethical standards across the Group reports presented by and discussed with each of the divisions world-wide rather than simply aiming to meet minimum legislation andBIS: and and regulatory requirements.
The Committee considered that the Companys processes and arrangements for staff to report concerns reviewed managements plans to mitigate and remedy the failings about any improprieties were both appropriate and effective.
and weaknesses in the Companys internal financial and risk TheCommittee also considered that the Companys investigation controls that were identified by PwC and Internal Audit and has ofsuch reports and consequential actions where required were monitored their effectiveness.
The Committee did not view any timely and effective.
ofthe issues that had been identified and addressed as significant.
The Board has reserved to itself responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the identification and management of risk at the Group level.
Each division also presents an analysis of its own business strategic risks to the Board on an annual basis.
Further information on the Groups systems of internal control andrisk management is given on page 85.
90 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Constitution and membership Working capital During the year the Committee considered and approved changes The Committee considered the key judgements within working to its terms of reference to reflect the changes contained in the new capital and in particular the level of provisions and overdue Code and CMA Order, which will apply to the Companys 2015 16 receivables in emerging markets.
The Committee determined that financial year.
the judgements made were appropriate to justify the working capital provision levels at 31 July 2015.
During the year, the committee memberships of David Challen, Tanya Fratto, Anne Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit came up for review.
Provisions for liabilities and charges After a rigorous review of their individual performances as members The Committee continued to monitor carefully the expert of and their history on the Committee with each individual not assessments of the financial exposure of the Group to the John participating in the discussion concerning their own performance, Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation and to the Titeflex, Inc. CSST claims.
the Committee determined to recommend to the Nomination The treatment of potential liabilities and the assumptions made Committee to propose to the Board that Tanya Fratto and Anne in calculating the provisions were reviewed and determined Quinn should each be reappointed as a member of the Committee fairly to reflect the position at 31 July 2015.
Further details of the for a further three-year term.
In the cases of David Challen and assumptions used are included in note 23 of the financial statements.
Sir Kevin Tebbit, both of whom had over nine years service as Deferred taxation non-executive directors of the Company but were still considered The Committee assessed the appropriateness of the Groups to be independent, the Committee recommended that each should assumptions and judgements in relation to the estimates of the be reappointed as a member of the Committee for a further year.
assets and liabilities to be recognised in income and deferred tax It was noted that membership of the Committee would automatically as well as the treatment of losses in the UK.
Particular focus was lapse if a member ceased to be a director of the Company.
given to deferred tax assets relating to the John Crane, Inc. asbestos Performance evaluation provision, the Titeflex CSST provision and Smiths Detection US.
An annual evaluation of the performance of the Committee is Inreviewing projected profit streams the Committee was satisfied conducted as part of the annual evaluation of the performance of that the relevant entities will generate sufficient future profits to the Board.
Details of the latest evaluation are given in the Corporate utilise those assets recognised.
Further details on movements governance statement on page 84. in tax balances are set out in note 7 of the financial statements.
Significant judgements and issues Post-retirement benefits An important responsibility of the Audit Committee is to review The Committee reviewed and agreed the methods, assumptions and andagree the most significant management judgements and issues.
benchmarks used by the actuaries to calculate the position of the Tosatisfy this responsibility, the Committee requests a written UK and US schemes at 31 July 2015 and the changes to US mortality formal update from the Finance Director and Director of Tax and assumptions on the pension liabilities The Committee agreed the Treasury twice a year and requires regular reports from the external treatment and the corresponding disclosures on these matters.
auditors at each Committee meeting.
The Committee carefully More detail on post-retirement benefits is contained in note 9 of the considers the content of these reports and the most significant financial statements.
issues and areas of judgement raised.
The key areas of judgement Discharge of responsibilities inthe year were as follows: During the year, the Committee has monitored its discharge of Revenue recognition responsibilities.
In addition to the actions reported in the sections The Committee reviewed the key judgements on revenue above, the Committee has: recognition.
Attention was given to large, multi-faceted and following the resignation of the Companys Finance Director nonstandard contracts in Smiths Detection and to contracts where in April 2015, considered the appointment of an Interim Chief percentage of completion accounting was used in Smiths Detection Financial Officer and the appointment of a new Finance Director and Smiths Interconnect.
The Committee reviewed the accounting with effect from 18 September 2015 : treatment of four large programmes in Smiths Detection where management has assessed the portion of revenue to be attributed monitored the process for the recruitment of a new Chief Executive and the anticipated profit margin and concluded that the revenue who is expected to join the Company on 25 September 2015: and judgments made were appropriate.
considered practical ways to improve the quality and clarity of the Impairment Companys reporting.
The Committee considered the Groups intangible assets and the The Committee has enjoyed a constructive relationship with the assumptions used to justify the carrying values.
Particular attention Board throughout the year and has no contentious or unresolved was given to Smiths Interconnect Power, Smiths Detection and issuestoreport.
The Committee also reviewed the fair value less costs to sell for the Smiths Interconnect Microwave Advice CGUs and Smiths Detection.
The Committee also reviewed the The Committee has independent access to the services of Internal carrying value of capitalised development assets for Smiths Medical Audit and to the external auditor and may obtain outside professional and Smiths Detection.
The Committee agreed that the projected advice, at the expense of the Company, as it sees fit, in the future cash flows from these businesses and assets supported the performance of its duties.
carrying value and that the disclosures contained in the financial statements appropriately reflect the sensitivity of the judgements made.
Details of impairment testing and sensitivities are included innote 12 of the financialstatements.
The Committee considered the change in CGUs in Smiths Interconnect and the rationale for the division of Microwave from one CGU into three Components, Telecoms and Sub-systems.
TheCommittee agreed that the change in organisational and reporting structure that had led to the change in CGUs was correctlyreflected.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 91 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate governance statement Continued Committee membership Nomination Committee The Committee meets periodically, as and when required.
During the financial year the members of the Committee were: Sir George Sir George Buckley Buckley Chairman, Mr Angelici, Mr Challen, Ms Fratto, Ms Quinn, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Mr Seeger and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
The Chief Executive is normally invited to attend the Nomination Committee.
The HR Director, the Director of Talent and the Director of Reward have also attended these meetings in order to advise the Committee.
External advisers may also be invited by the Committee to aid its deliberations.
Role and responsibilities The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as directors of the Company and as Company Secretary and their removal or retirement, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also Introduction from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the structure, Nomination Committee and the composition and chairmanship of size and composition of the Board and the Board committees and the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It reviews the structure, consider succession planning for directors and senior management, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, to ensure that the Company has the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the nonexperience and knowledge to meet the changing needs of the executive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with Company.
The Nomination Committee supports the Board with the regard to any changes.
The Board has continued with its practice of review of the talent pipeline for senior management roles.
This is setting itself a series of written objectives for the financial year and particularly important in a multi-industry global company with a fivethose for the year ended 31 July 2015 included objectives relating to division structure, where talented individuals in one division may not succession planning.
be personally known to the leadership team in another division.
Following a recommendation by the Nomination Committee, During 2015 the Committee has overseen the implementation Bill Seeger was appointed to the Board in May 2014 and of some key initiatives which followed from the detailed review subsequently replaced David Challen as the Chairman of the carried out in July 2014.
These have focused on succession planning, AuditCommittee, in November 2014, as noted in more detail especially in the context of the number of changes in the Executive in the AuditCommitteereport.
Committee, the action needed to improve the bench strength and the The Chairman and the rest of the Board continue to support Lord initiatives to support our growth strategy, including increased focus Davies aspiration for female board representation, but this presents on engineering talent, through the introduction of an Engineering a particular challenge for a small board.
The resignation of Peter Council, and Innovation Awards: recruitment for the new role of Turner in April 2015 meant that the proportion of women on the China President and other key positions in China: and the integrated Board increased to 25% at the end of the financial year.
However approach to management training and the launch of the new global this ratio has returned to 22%, following the appointment on performance review system.
18September 2015 of Chris OShea as the new Finance Director.
The primary focus of the Nomination Committee during the year The Nomination Committee and the Board remain committed to has been succession of the Companys two executive directors ensuring diversity is included within the remit for appointments and process for identifying potential candidates for the roles of at all levels in the Company, but does not think it is appropriate Chief Executive and Finance Director.
I am very pleased with the to set specific Group-wide targets or objectives at this stage.
outcome of this which has resulted in the appointment of Andrew Furtherinformation on diversity is provided in the Strategic report.
Reynolds Smith as our new Chief Executive and Chris OShea as An annual evaluation of the performance of the Committee is our new Finance Director, both of whom join us during September conducted as part of the annual evaluation of the performance of 2015.
As I stated in my introduction to this Governance statement, the Board.
The Board evaluation for the year ended 31 July 2014 David Challen has informed the Board that he will be retiring at the was facilitated by Ms Sheena Crane, an external consultant.
The conclusion of this years AGM.
An announcement of his replacement Company has no other connections with Ms Crane.
The results of as the Senior Independent Director will be made in due course.
the evaluation were presented to the Board in November 2014 and Meeting attendance further details have been set out above.
It was noted in the evaluation report that there was diversity of gender and of industrial and Nomination Committee geographical background in the Companys Board.
Eligible to attend Attended Sir George Buckley Chairman 3 2 During 2015 the Nomination Committee worked to find a B. F. J. Angelici 3 3 replacement for Peter Turner as Finance Director of the Company D. J. Challen 3 3 and appointed Inzito, a leading search firm, to handle the search.
T. D. Fratto 3 2 The Company has no other connections with Inzito.
The Nomination A. C. Quinn 3 3 Committee worked with Inzito to produce a detailed specification for W. C. Seeger 3 3 the role including the capabilities and attributes which were either required or desirable.
These included the benefits to the Board of Sir Kevin Tebbit 3 3 diversity in its widest sense gender, nationality, age, experience, includes occasions where matters were conducted by written resolutions approved and background and the particular skills which would benefit the by all Committee members Company as a multi-industry company operating in a global market.
Sir George Buckley was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to the In April 2015, after an extensive search and interview process, cancellation of a flight delaying his travel plans and Tanya Fratto was unable to attend which involved nearly every member of the Board, the Nomination a meeting called at short notice, due to prior commitments Committee resolved to recommend to the Board the appointment More information can be found at of Chris OShea as Finance Director and as a member of the Board www.
92 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Also during 2015 the Nomination Committee worked to find a Remuneration Committee replacement for Philip Bowman as Chief Executive of the Company and appointed Egon Zehnder EZ to handle the search.
The Anne Quinn, CBE Company has no other connections with EZ.
Again, the Nomination Chair of the Remuneration Committee Committee worked with EZ to produce a detailed specification for the role including the capabilities and attributes which were either required or desirable.
These included the benefits to the Board of diversity and the particular skills referred to above of specific relevance to Smiths.
In addition, the Committee felt that a professional background as an engineer would add significant value.
After an extensive search and interview process the Nomination Committee, in July 2015, resolved to recommend to the Board the appointment of Andrew Reynolds Smith to succeed MrBowman as Chief Executive and as a member of the Board from 25September2015.
In July 2015 the Committee considered the appointment and re-appointment of certain members of the Audit, Remuneration Introduction from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committees and the appointment of the Chairs The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to make of those committees and recommended the appointment and recommendations to the Board on the Companys remuneration reappointment of members and Chairs as set out in more detail in framework, giving full consideration to the matters set out in the relevant sections of this Statement.
The Committee also carefully the Code.
The Committee also agrees with the Board the policy assessed the independence of each of the non-executive directors for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, and concluded that all of them were independent notwithstanding theFinance Director and senior management.
The Committee in the cases of Mr Challen, the Senior Independent Director, and sets the remuneration for these individuals within the agreed Sir Kevin Tebbit, that they had both served on the Board for more policy having regard to a number of factors, including their than nine years.
The Committee and the Board each considered performance, remuneration across the Company and market the matter carefully and decided that both these non-executive positioning.
The Committee takes note of the policies and trends directors continue to demonstrate the qualities of independence in remuneration across the whole Group in relation to all levels of and judgement in carrying out their roles, supporting the executive employees.
Further information about the activities and focus of the directors and senior management in an objective manner.
Remuneration Committee during the year is set out in the Directors Inaddition, based on the recommendation of the Nomination remunerationreport.
Committee, the Board resolved that Mr Challen should continue asSenior Independent Director until his retirement.
Mr Challen has Meeting attendance since notified the Board of his decision not to stand for re-election Remuneration Committee at the AGM but to retire from the Board after nearly eleven years Eligible to attend Attended service.
His replacement as Senior Independent Director will be announced in due course.
A. C. Quinn Chair 7 7 B. F. J. Angelici 7 7 The Committee has access to such information and advice both Sir George Buckley 7 6 from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, D. J. Challen 7 7 asit deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external T. D. Fratto 7 6 search consultants, where appropriate.
The Committee reviews W. C. Seeger 7 7 annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends Sir Kevin Tebbit 7 7 to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The annual review of the Committees terms of reference was conducted includes one occasion where matters were conducted by written resolutions in July 2015 and certain changes were approved with effect from approved by all Committee members 1August 2015.
Sir George Buckley was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to the cancellation of a flight delaying his travel plans and Tanya Fratto was unable to attend In the coming year, when the new Chief Executive is in place, a meeting called at short notice, due to prior commitments theCommittee will conduct a review of senior management and succession plans with a view to ensuring a strong and robust plan More information can be found at exists in all parts of the Group.
com Committee membership The members of the Committee during the financial year were: MsQuinn Chair of the Committee, Mr Angelici, Sir George Buckley, Mr Challen, Ms Fratto, Mr Seeger and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
The Chief Executive is normally invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings except when his own remuneration is under discussion.
The HR Director, the Director of Reward and Kepler Associates, the external remuneration adviser, have also attended meetings in order to advise the Committee, as and when required.
The Committees activities are further described in the following Directors remuneration report.
TheCommittee reviews its terms of reference annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The latest annual review of the Committees terms ofreference was conducted in July 2015.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 93 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
