EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to present our Nomination thatthere is an appropriate Group talent Ensuring we attract and retain Committee Report for 2015. pipeline.
Further detail is provided on the best talent through the pages65and 66.
The recently published Financial Reporting talent management programme Council FRC discussion paper on UK Board Yours faithfully is vital for the delivery of the Succession Planning was considered by the Groups strategy.
This resulted in Dr John Hughes CBE theCommittee being delegated additional Chairman of the Nomination Committee responsibility for Group-wide succession 16 February 2016 planning and for oversight of the talent management programme throughout the Group.
This will ensure that we have an effectiveframework in place to develop talentthroughout our business and ensure 64 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Role of the Committee Nomination Committee Non-executive Director tenure The Committee reviews the size, structure and allocation oftime % The chart below indicates the length of tenure for composition including skills, structure and each Non-executive Director.
Any extension of the diversity of the Board and its Committees appointment beyond nine years service would 35 andreviews the results of the annual Board require close review by the Committee of the performance evaluation.
It considers succession individuals continued independence, effectiveness planning for Directors, Executive Committee 20 and contribution tothe Boards deliberations.
members and senior leadership and ensures that there is a formal and appropriate procedure for ISS 2016 proxy voting guidelines such appointments.
The Committee considers At its February 2016 meeting, the Committee the independence of the Non-executive considered the ISS overboarding policy which 20 Directors and is responsible for leading the was introduced in their revised guidelines.
The 25 Board appointment process and for making Committee carefully assessed each Directors recommendations to the Board.
It was concluded that other directorships provide Board and Executive Independence and Composition of the Committee valuable experience, knowledge and succession planning and reelection of Directors The Nomination Committee is appointed perspectives for the Group.
In addition, recruitment, including Composition of the the talent management Board and Committees bytheBoard.
Its members are: attendance at Board and Committee meetings programme Committee governance for all Directors was more than 75% for the Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman previous two years.
John OHiggins Peter Chambr Succession planning and talent management Lisa Davis Activities in 2015 Succession planning throughout the business Russell King Key issues considered by the Committee isvital for the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Martha Wyrsch duringthe year included: TheGroup seeks to attract and retain the best talent and we have in place compensation and In the event of discussions relating to the a review of Committee membership: benefits that reward achievement and training Chairmans succession, the Senior Independent Board succession planning: programmes to help employees develop and Director would take the chair.
an overview of the talent management reach their full potential.
A talent management programme was initiated during the year to programme: support the Groups growth strategy.
The Committee meetings the Committees terms of reference: programme will enable an improved employee The Committee met twice during the year.
a review of Non-executive Directors whose value proposition to aid the hiring, development Committee attendance is disclosed on page 61. length of service was more than six years: and and retention of talent and enable more Atthe invitation of the Committee, any Director a review of the skills of each of the Directors focussed deployment of our talent to our most or other person may be invited to attend meetings and the independence of each of the critical activities.
A Group-wide set of leadership of the Committee if considered desirable in independent Non-executive Directors prior competencies to provide a consistent way to assisting the Committee in fulfilling its role.
tothe 2015 AGM and recommendation that assess talent and an easily accessible language each of them be subject to re-election at the for giving feedback and supporting development 2015 AGM.
was established and an organisational capability assessment carried out.
com EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED At its December meeting, the Committee executive search consultancy, Egon Zehnder, Egon Zehnder adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and did not reviewed the initial work carried out as part andthe following process was undertaken provide any other services to the Company ofthe talent management programme and forthe appointments: during the year.
During 2016, the competency model and organisation a job description and required capabilities Diversity capability review will be deployed throughout brief were prepared against which potential We have sought to ensure that we have a the Group.
In addition, the Committee candidates were considered: balanced Board where individual merit and considered the FRCs discussion paper on UK the Committee considered the candidates relevance are the key entry requirements but Board Succession Planning.
It was recognised against the objective criteria set out in the collectively we have an appropriate mix of that good succession planning below Executive jobdescription and required capabilities gender, nationalities and skills to ensure level would ensure an appropriate talent brief, having due regard for the benefits constructive debate and thoughtful decisionpipeline, contribute to the longer-term success of ofBoard diversity: making.
Spectris is committed to the merits the Group and would be an enabler to delivering a shortlist of preferred candidates was ofdiversity in all its forms at Board level and the Companys strategy.
To ensure that there selected from a list of potential candidates: throughout the Group.
As at 31 December 2015, was appropriate Board-level responsibility, the the shortlisted candidates were subjected 22% of the Board were women.
Further Board delegated to the Committee oversight of toarigorous process of interviews and information regarding Group diversity can talent management.
comprehensive reference checks: a preferred befound on page 45. candidate recommendation was made by the Recruitment process Committee to the Board for consideration: and Led by the Chairman, the recruitment processes the Board considered and approved undertaken for the appointment of Ulf theappointments.
Quellmann and Bill Seeger were formal, rigorous and transparent.
The Committee appointed Non-executive Director tenure as at 31 December 2015 Ulf Quellmann Bill Seeger Lisa Davis Martha Wyrsch Russell King Peter Chambr Years 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 66 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Gender diversity of the Board Skills, knowledge and expertise of the Board Board members 2 B2B Commercial andmarketing Financial qualifications 7 Internet economy International Legal, governance andrisk control Listed company M&A Manufacturing Female Directors Male Directors Services Nationality of the Board Experience of end-user markets Board members 4 Academic research 1 Aerospace Automotive Energy and utilities Manufacturing and machine building Metals, minerals andmining Pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals 3 1 Pulp, paper and tissue Semicon, telecoms andelectronics British American Irish German 67 www.
