Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 EFFECTIVENESS Induction Chairman and Non-executive Directors all of our Non-executive Directors have assured On the appointment of John Hughes in 2007, the Board that they remain committed to their All new Directors appointed to the Board receive the Board considered that he met the respective roles.
The Board is satisfied that each aninduction programme tailored to meet their independence criteria set out in the Code.
The Non-executive Director is able to dedicate the individual needs.
Both Ulf Quellmann and Bill Chairmans significant listed company interests necessary amount of time to the Companys Seeger appointed to the Board on 1 January are as set out in his biography on page 56. affairs and that the external positions held 2015 discussed with the Chairman what TheBoard has formally reviewed the Chairmans bringvaluable knowledge, experience and briefings and meetings would be most beneficial other commitments and confirms that it believes perspectives toBoard discussions and the to them to ensure an effective induction that the Chairmans obligations to the Company Group.
Details of the Nomination Committees following their appointments.
As a result, tailored are properly fulfilled notwithstanding these consideration of Institutional Shareholder induction programmes were designed for each directorships.
In fact, these roles provide the Services ISS 2016 Proxy Voting guidelines Director, which included briefings from members Chairman with additional skills and experience canbe found on page 65. of the Executive team and other senior managers which benefit the Board.
from both head office and the operating The Board has agreed that each Director shall companies.
Briefings included key areas of the Non-executive Directors are appointed pursuant stand for re-appointment at the AGM, with the business such as the internal audit function, to letters of appointment.
The appointment of exception of Lisa Davis who shall retire from the anoverview of the Groups risk management all Non-executive Directors can be terminated by Board at the 2016 AGM.
processes and key risks facing the business, the Company at any time on six months written andacomprehensive site visit programme notice and are renewable at each Annual Details of the Directors of the Company are set whichincluded BTG, Malvern Instruments, General Meeting AGM of the Company, out with their biographies on pages 56 and 57.
subject to review prior to proposal forreDetails ofDirectors service contracts or letters election.
The time commitments of Nonofappointment, in the case of Non-executive Training executive Directors are defined on appointment.
Directors, emoluments and share interests are set The Chairman reviews each Directors training The role of our Non-executive Directors is to out in the Remuneration Report on pages 77 to and development needs annually.
To enhance bring independent judgement to bear on issues 93.
Copies of Directors service contracts and the Directors deep understanding of our of strategy, performance and standards of letters of appointment for the Non-executive business, the June Board meeting was held at conduct.
They form the Audit and Risk, Directors are available for inspection by BTGs Eclpens site.
This gave the Board the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
shareholders at each AGM and during normal opportunity to meet senior staff at the operating business hours at the Companys registered office.
company, attend a site visit of the BTG factory During the year, Peter Chambr completed nine and receive a presentation from the BTG years in office.
The Board continues to regard him Performance evaluation management team.
as an independent Non-executive Director as he Each year the Board, its Committees and continues to make a valuable and independent Directors are evaluated considering, among The Directors also received regular updates contribution to deliberations and also is free other things, the balance of skills, experience, andpresentations.
These included changes fromany business or other relationship with independence and knowledge on the Board, anddevelopments to the business and to the theCompany.
The Board particularly values his itsdiversity in the widest sense, how it works legislative and regulatory environments in which expertise in the life science segment which is together as a unit and other relevant factors.
In particular, the following ofstrategic relevance to the Materials Analysis During 2015, the Board trialled the Board briefings were provided during 2015: businesses, which is considered important at Effectiveness Profile Model Blue 4 being thistime.
public market trends update: Seethe case study on page 62 for further details market overview update: All of our Non-executive Directors are ofBlue 4.
The Board intends to conduct an trading and share price performance  during 2016. considered to be independent and free from any presentation from the Companys brokers: and business interest which could materially interfere changes to the Code, in particular the with the exercise of their judgement.
In addition, introduction of the viability statement.
