Governance Report Board of Directors Nicholas Anderson David Meredith BSc Engineering, MBA 55 FCMA, CGMA 56 Group Chief Executive Finance Director Committees Committees N RK RK Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board March 2012.
Appointed Chief Operating Officer June 1992 in August 2013 and Group Chief Executive in Areas of experience January 2014 Finance and accounting Areas of experience Engineering International International Operational Pensions Industrial Background Sales and marketing Before joining the Group in 1988 as Group Accountant, Engineering David Meredith trained as an accountant with Redman Background Heenan International, a specialist engineering group, and was appointed Accountant at their Heenan Drives Before joining the Group in 2011 as Director EMEA, Bill Whiteley Ltd subsidiary.
David later joined English & American Nicholas Anderson was Vice-President of John Crane BSc, FCMA 67 Reinsurance Company where he held finance positions.
Asia Pacific part of Smiths Group plc, based in Chairman Singapore, and President of John Crane Latin America, Committees based in the USA.
Previously, Nicholas held senior positions with Alcoa Aluminio in Argentina and the N Foseco Minsep Group plc in Brazil.
Appointed to the Board July 2002.
Appointed Chairman in June 2009 Areas of experience Senior management Engineering Finance International Background Until his retirement in 2008, Bill Whiteley was Chief Executive of Rotork plc, where he had been a Director since 1984.
Bill has been awarded an honorary Doctorate of Engineering by the University of Bath.
External appointments Chairman of Brammer plc and Hill & Smith Jamie Pike Krishnamurthy Rajagopal Holdings PLC.
MBA, MA, MIMechE 60 FREng, CEng, FIET, FIMechE, FIE, FCMI, PhD 62 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Committees Committees A N R A N R Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board February 2009 May 2014 Areas of experience Areas of experience Remuneration Senior management Engineering Engineering Senior management International Operations Background Background Jamie Pike joined Burmah Castrol in 1991 and was On completing his Doctorate in 1980, Krishnamurthy Chief Executive of Burmah Castrol Chemicals before Rajagopal held senior positions in BOC Group plc prior leading the Foseco buy-out in 2001 and its subsequent to being named Chief Executive of BOC Edwards and flotation in 2005.
Prior to joining Burmah, he was a Executive Director of the BOC Group plc, before retiring partner at Bain & Company.
Hewas previously a Non-Executive Director of Oxford, holds an MBA from INSEAD and is a Member of FSI International Inc. Foseco Ltd and Dyson Group plc.
the Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
External appointments 3 External appointments Chairman of UMI Ltd and HHV Pumps Ltd. Chairman of Ibstock plc, Tyman plc and RPC Group.
Non-Executive Director of WS Atkins plc, Bodycote plc, e2v technologies plc and Porvair plc.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 68 Annual Report 2015 A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee RK Risk Management Committee Denotes Committee Chairman Flag denotes country of citizenship Neil Daws Jay Whalen CEng, FIMechE 53 BA, MBA 59 Executive Director, EMEA Executive Director, WMFTG Committees Committees RK RK Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board June 2003 March 2012 Areas of experience Areas of experience Manufacturing Sales and marketing Engineering Engineering Product development International business development Sales and marketing Background Broad operational experience Jay Whalen joined the Group in 1991 as President of Watson-Marlow Inc. in the USA.
He was named Sales Background and Marketing Director of the global Watson-Marlow Neil Daws joined the Group in 1978 and held positions pump business in 2002 and in 2010 was appointed in production and design engineering prior to being to his current Group position of President, Watsonnamed as UK Supply Director.
Following this Neil has Marlow Fluid Technology Group.
Prior to joining held responsibility for Asia Pacific, Latin America and Watson-Marlow, Jay was Vice-President Operations the Groups Supply operations, including the Groups forHarvardBioscience, Inc. health, safety and environmental matters.
Trudy Schoolenberg Clive Watson Andy Robson PhD 57 B Comm Acc, ACA, CTA 58 LLB Law, Barrister 53 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Committees Committees Committees A N R A N R RK Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed as General Counsel and Company Secretary August 2012 July 2009 June 2012 Areas of experience Areas of experience Areas of experience Engineering Finance International law Product development Tax and treasury Corporate governance Oil and petrochemical Engineering International business development including mergers Background Background and acquisitions Prior to her current position at AkzoNobel, Clive Watson held several tax and finance roles before Business restructuring TrudySchoolenberg served as Vice-President of joining Black & Decker in 1988 as Director of Tax and Global Research & Development at Wrtsil Oy.
He was later appointed Vice-President IT, PPP and PFI projects Trudy previously held senior management positions of Business Planning and Analysis in the USA.
Clive then Contract negotiation with Royal Dutch Shell plc and was Head of Strategy joined Thorn Lighting as Group Finance Director before Background forShell Chemicals.
working for Borealis as Chief Financial Officer and Before joining the Group in 2012, Andy Robson Executive Vice-President of Business Support.
External appointments was General Counsel and Company Secretary of External appointments Director of Integrated Supply Chain and Research, RMPlc, a role he held for 14 years.
Prior to this he was Development and Innovation, Decorative Paints Division Executive Director and Group Finance Director of European General Counsel with Cendant Corporation of AkzoNobel.
Non-Executive Director of COVA and Spectris plc.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 69 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
