Governance Report Leadership: Board structure Board or Committee meetings are sent The Board Committee composition the relevant papers and asked to provide The Board relies on executive management The Non-Executive Directors play an comments in advance of the meeting to to run the business and monitor important governance role in the detailed the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
management activities and holds them work they carry out on our Committees on In addition, all Board and Committee accountable against targets and standards.
All the Non-Executive members receive the minutes of meetings The Board also approves long-term Directors are determined by the Board to be as a matter of course.
corporate and strategic plans after a full independent in character and judgement, The Directors attendance record at Board review and assessment of market and incompliance with the Code.
The Chairman and Committee meetings is set out on technology trends, business drivers and was independent on appointment.
Having a senior management team The General Counsel and Company meet without the Executive Directors that is capable of executing the strategic Secretary supports the Committee present to discuss the Executive Directors plans is a key focus.
Chairmen in making sure members are performance and other matters.
The Senior The formal schedule of matters equipped for informed decision-making Independent Director is available to reserved for the Boards decision and that they allocate their time to the discuss concerns with shareholders, in is available on the Groups website, right subjects.
addition to the normal channels of the www.
com, under The Board has satisfied itself that at least Chairman, Group Chief Executive or the the Governance section.
one member of the Audit Committee, Finance Director.
The Non-Executive Directors provide namely Clive Watson, has recent and The Board has a conflicts of interest policy independent challenge and review, bringing relevant financial experience and is and has put in place procedures for the wide experience, specific expertise and a confident that the collective experience disclosure and review of any potential or fresh objective perspective.
of its members enables it to be effective.
The Audit Committee also has access to the The Board meets as often as is necessary financial expertise of the Group, the external to discharge its duties.
In 2015 the Board and internal auditors and can seek further met seven times.
All Directors are expected professional advice at the Companys to attend all Board meetings and relevant expense, if required.
Committee meetings unless prevented by prior commitments, illness or a conflict of interest.
Directors unable to attend specific Division of responsibilities Roles and responsibilities Key Board matters Chairman Group Chief Executive The approval of corporate and strategic Managing the Board Leadership business plans Safeguarding governance The Groups short, medium and longThe approval of the annual and term performance Performance with Group interim results Chief Executive Stewardship of capital, technical and Trading updates human resources Shareholder contact with Group Chief Integrated risk management framework Executive and Finance Director Corporate and business strategy Acquisitions disposals Director performance Internal risk management controls Major capital expenditure Succession planning Organisational structure Director appointments Material litigation Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 70 Annual Report 2015 Governance structure The Board Committees and their Chairmen are listed below together with an overview of each Committees responsibilities.
The Terms of Reference for the Committees are published on the Groups website, www.
com, on the Policies and procedures page, within the Governance section.
Group Board Bill Whiteley Chairman Audit Nomination Risk Remuneration Committee Committee Management Committee Committee Clive Watson Bill Whiteley Nicholas Anderson Krishnamurthy Chairman Chairman Chairman Rajagopal Chairman Responsibilities Monitor the integrity of Recommend Ensure risk management Recommend a Financial Statements Board appointments is meaningful, relevant remuneration strategy and focused on improving and framework to Ensure significant issues Review succession the business attract, retain and reward have been addressed plans senior executives Risk scenario planning for Review effectiveness China and EMEA Determine annual of internal controls, risk Executive Director management framework, Risk review to ensure and senior and internal and external an effective and robust executive remuneration audit to ensure that they management framework are robust and integrated Approve Performance Keeping the Share Plan PSP awards Board informed Determine the Remuneration Policy set out in the Remuneration Policy report 2014 and subject to renewal in 2017 Further information on each of the Committees activities during the 12-month period to 31st December 2015 is set out on pages 73100 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 71 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Leadership: Board structure continued with the implementation of the strategy Board activities in 2015 asapproved by the Board in June 2014.
Board focus during 2015 The Board ensures good governance Health and safety is of fundamental practices are embedded throughout importance to the business and is the Group so that they are an integral considered at each Board meeting.
part of running a successful business.
In the adjacent chart we have set out how 10% At the June meeting the Board approved the Board spent its time during 2015. investment in a development programme 10% The Board agendas are carefully planned 35% enabling a number of employees across to ensure focus on the Groups strategic the globe to qualify in health and safety 10% priorities and key monitoring activities, management to an international standard.
as well as reviews of significant issues.
The Board recognises that cyber-crime 15% During 2015 the Board devoted 35% of 20% continues to be a threat to all businesses its time to the Spirax Sarco steam and and has ensured that additional investment Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group has been made during the year on the strategies, the Group 2020 plan and with Strategy information security infrastructure to reviewing implementation progress of the Operations and risk upgrade and strengthen our systems.
With the new Governance and shareholders In addition, an increased level of insurance requirement for the Board to ensure that the Finance cover has been put in place to mitigate risk management framework is integrated, New product development the cost to the business in the event of as well as being robust and effective, 20% People and succession an attack.
Further information on the of time was allocated to this.
work undertaken in this area is shown on As new product development is key to page 83. the on-going success of the business, at During 2015 the Board regularly reviewed the meeting held in June a presentation the Groups performance and satisfied itself on Product Lifecycle Management was that, despite challenging trading conditions delivered.
This included a proposal for a and foreign exchange headwinds, new technology platform for products in management was on track in delivering the steam business to reduce the time the strategic business plan.
In addition, taken to get a new product to market, the Board concentrated its efforts on improve efficiencies and protect key data.
succession planning during its strategic Approval was given by the Board for this review meeting in June.
At the same meeting the Board continued to engage with shareholders and executive team reviewed progress on governance, remuneration and trading during the period.
Board attendance Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings, and individual attendance by Director for 2015, are set out in the table below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Management Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 3 2 4 3 Bill Whiteley 7 N A 2 N A N A Nicholas Anderson 7 N A 2 N A 3 1 David Meredith 7 N A N A N A 3 Neil Daws 7 N A N A N A 3 Jay Whalen 7 N A N A N A 3 Jamie Pike 7 3 2 4 N A Krishnamurthy Rajagopal 7 3 2 4 N A Trudy Schoolenberg 7 3 2 4 N A Clive Watson 7 3 2 4 N A N A means not applicable.
1 As announced, David Meredith steps down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 10th May 2016 due to retirement and will be replaced by Kevin Boyd on 11th May.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 72 Annual Report 2015 Leadership: Nomination Committee This year succession planning has played a major part of our activity to ensure we continue to have a strong, well balanced and diverse Board and senior management team, equipped with the skills and experience to implement our strategy for growth.
Bill Whiteley Chairman, Nomination Committee Membership and attendance Committee member Attendance Number of meetings 2 W. H. Whiteley 2 N. J. Anderson 2 J. Pike 2 K. Rajagopal 2 G. E. Schoolenberg 2 C. G. Watson 2 Role of the Committee How the Committee spent The main role of the Committee is to recommend changes to the Board and consider its time during the year succession planning for the future.
Summary of the key Summary of the key 15% Committee activities in 2015: areas of focus for 2016: Recommended to the Board Instruct an independent external 40% 15% the appointment of Kevin Boyd search agency to assist with nding as Group Finance Director and suitable candidates Executive Director Develop job descriptions for Succession planning new appointments 30% Reviewed tenure of Board and Committee Non-Executive Directors succession planning Succession planning Recruitment Reviewed Board diversity Board and Committee composition Diversity Read more on pages 7476 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 73 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Leadership: Nomination Committee continued Responsibilities Make appropriate Review the structure Recommend any Consider succession recommendations and composition of the proposed changes to the planning arrangements to the Board for Board with regard to Board for Directors and, the appointment, the overall balance of more generally, senior re-appointment or skills, knowledge and executives replacement of Directors experience of Board members against current and perceived future requirements of the Group Following David Merediths announcement and openness.
Furthermore, the Group Review of 2015 of his wish to retire from his position as recognises the importance of diversity at This year we have reviewed the tenure of Group Finance Director and Executive all levels of the Company as well as on the Non-Executive Directors as part of Director with effect from the end of the AGM the Board.
the succession planning to ensure that a on 10th May 2016, we appointed Korn Ferry majority of independent Non-Executive We believe that the Boards perspective and Whitehead Mann, an independent executive approach is greatly enhanced by gender, Directors continues to be maintained.
recruitment firm, to assist with the search age and cultural diversity and it is our policy The need for enhanced succession planning for a successor.
On 27th October 2015 we to consider overall Board balance and was also a key recommendation following announced the appointment of Kevin Boyd diversity when appointing new Directors.
the external Board evaluation carried out who will join the Group on 11th April 2016 As shown on page 65, the diverse range of by Dr Long CBE of Boardroom Review Ltd to ensure a smooth handover from David nationalities and experience of our Board in 2015.
Work has therefore started, and a Meredith.
Kevin Boyd will then be appointed is particularly relevant given the broad plan has been developed, to ensure that to the Board on 11th May 2016 as Group international reach of the Group.
succession for key Board roles is phased Finance Director and Executive Director.
We are committed to a target of a over the next few years to ensure adequate Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann provides no minimum of 25% women on our Board as handover periods and a smooth transition.
other services to the Group.
This is a key element An independent external search agency We encourage leadership development of our Board succession plan and we are has been instructed and will advise the through robust succession planning and a confident that we will be close to this target Committee on the suitability of candidates strengthened performance management and exceed 20% in 2016. against a job description approved by the culture.
The Committee is committed to We also encourage the progress of development plan for those individuals appropriate engagement with shareholders women in senior positions throughout the demonstrating high potential.
Training and throughout this process.
As we progress Group and, during 2015, women were professional development are delivered this process we anticipate that the number appointed as: Strategic Implementation through our Leadership Academy in of Directors may fluctuate temporarily Project Manager EMEA, General Manager conjunction with Ashridge Business between 9 and 10.
We shall ensure that at Thailand, HR Manager Italy, Group Energy School and our Aspire programme for all times, the number of independent Nonand Environmental Manager, Senior HR senior managers.
Executive Directors is the same or more Business Partner, and Operations Manager than the number of Executive Directors so The Executive Directors meet frequently to Group Supply Chain, with a number of that we remain compliant with the Code.
review organisational staffing requirements these being internal promotions.
A recommendation from this review is that against career planning of high-potential We have continued to offer practical support leaders.
The most recent review of the Nomination Committee increases the for the Department for Business Innovation number of scheduled meetings from 2016 succession planning by the full Board and and Skills Women on Boards FTSE the executive and senior management team onwards.
The findings of the review are set 250 initiative by supporting two women out on page 76.
We have identified the skills was undertaken as part of the strategic from our senior management team to review meeting held in June 2015. and experience required on the Board to serve as Non-Executive Directors on other support the implementation of our strategy The Group seeks to have Directors who, company Boards.
for growth, and used these to create job in addition to relevant technical and specifications to assist with recruitment.
commercial expertise, meet the highest standards of judgement, critical thinking Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 74 Annual Report 2015
