LEADERSHIP Governance structure The Board The governance of the Group is structured througha hierarchy of committees that approve and monitor the strategies and policies under Board Committees: which the Company operates.
This structure comprises a mixture of Board and management committees, as illustrated in the diagram opposite.
Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Management Committees: Executive Disclosure Finance Committee Committee Committee Has responsibility for the Has responsibility for the Has responsibility for day-to-day management identification and disclosure certain banking and of the Groups operations of inside information and treasury matters for ensuring that regulatory announcements comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements Priority areas in 2015 In addition to the Boards role in overseeing the Companys financial performance and the Companys businesses, during the year, the following itemsand initiatives were delivered: See page Acquisitions A continued programme of bolt-on acquisitions was delivered during the year, with five acquisitions 22 completed.
Detailed scrutiny of each potential acquisition was undertaken by the Board with a focus on the strategic rationale and financial business case to ensure that each case can meet the expected cash flow return on investment.
Strategy During the year, the Board reviewed progress against the Groups strategy and considered 6 opportunities within our key markets.
An evolution of the Groups strategy with a renewed emphasisongrowth was announced at our Capital Markets Day.
Our strategic objective is to deliverlong-termand sustainable shareholder value by creating and providing  innovative solutions and services to our customers.
Operational excellence Best practice examples from the Group were shared at the Presidents meeting held in March and 22 anumber of Lean Six Sigma initiatives were implemented within our businesses.
This is a key element of the enhanced strategy.
Talent management Talent management and succession planning for Executive and senior management roles across 66 theGroup is an area of key priority to ensure that the Group has talent to deliver its strategic objectives.
Group-wide competencies have been adopted across the Group to create a common understanding and language of what constitutes good leadership at Spectris.
Information security The Board, through the work of the Audit and Risk Committee, increased its focus on 74 informationsecurity risks by overseeing the implementation of a number of risk management initiatives in this area and agreeing the operating model for the future.
Viability statement The Audit and Risk Committee provided assistance to the Board in relation to the viabilitystatement.
72 This included a thorough review of business viability and the Groups risk management processes which resulted in a number of enhancements being implemented.
60 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 How the Board operates Board and Committee meeting attendance during the year A clearly-defined framework of roles, Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration responsibilities and delegated authorities is in 1 2 3 Board Committee Committee Committee place which supports the Boards aim to deliver 7 4 2 4 Total meetings during year long-term shareholder value.
The powers of the 7 n a 2 n a Dr John Hughes CBE Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of 7 n a 2 n a Association the Articles, which are available John OHiggins onthe Companys website.
The Articles may be 7 4 2 3 Peter Chambr amended by special resolution.
In addition, the 6 2 2 2 Lisa Davis Directors have responsibilities and duties under 7 2 2 4 Russell King legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006 7 4 1 4 Ulf Quellmann the Act.
7 4 1 2 Bill Seeger 7 3 2 2 Martha Wyrsch The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
A summary is shown 7 n a n a n a Clive Watson below and the full schedule is available on 4 3 2 1 2 John Warren application to the Company Secretary.
The 1 Lisa Davis and Russell King stepped down from the Committee with effect from 27 February 2015.
Board also delegates other matters to Board 2 Ulf Quellmann and Bill Seeger stepped down from the Committee with effect from 27 February 2015.
Committees and management as appropriate.
3 Bill Seeger and Martha Wyrsch stepped down from the Committee with effect from 27 February 2015.
4 John Warren retired from the Board with effect from 24 April 2015.
He attended all meetings he was eligible to attend.
The responsibilities of the Board include: the Companys long-term objectives andstrategy: setting the tone for the Companys culture: Meetings ofthe Board.
In addition, members ofthe annual financial planning: The Board meets formally at regular intervals Executive Committee, other senior managers the acquisition and disposal of businesses: throughout the year to continuously assess and from around the Group and external advisers major capital expenditure: review key priorities and business issues for the areinvited to provide input on particular the appointment and if necessary Groupover the short, medium and long term.
removalofDirectors: and Additional meetings are convened as required Board and senior management succession.
toconsider specific topics requiring immediate Matters reserved and delegation decision.
Comprehensive papers are presented Authority for operational decisions is delegated totheBoardwhich facilitate meaningful debate by the Board to senior management at operating Board allocation of time % on the performance and the future direction of company level, over which the Executive the Company.
35 7 All Directors are expected to attend all Board and Committees relevant Committee meetings.
Details of attendance The Board delegates specific responsibilities by Directors at Board and Committee meetings toits Committees, notably the Audit and Risk, during 2015 are set out in the table above.
Where Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
aDirector was not in attendance, this was due to Achart setting out the Companys Board other prior work commitments.
Directors who were Committees structure is set out on page 60.
25 unable to attend specific Board or Committee Each Committee has formal terms of reference 8 meetings reviewed the relevant papers and provided which are available on the Companys website.
25 their comments to the Chairman of the Board or The responsibilities of each Board Committee, Committee, asappropriate.
The Head of itsmembership and the key issues considered Commercial and Company Secretary, Roger byeach during 2015 are set out in the Strategy Operations and risk Stephens, attends all meetings as Secretary Committee reports.
com LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Under the Act, a Director must avoid a situation During 2015, the membership of each Roles where he or she has, or may have, a direct or Committee was reviewed in light of the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, appointment of additional Non-executive separate, formalised in writing and have been with the Companys interests.
It was agreed that the number of approved by the Board.
A summary of these inaccordance with the powers and duties of Committees each Non-executive Director roles is shown below and full role descriptions Directors laid down in the Companys Articles, serveson would be reduced to allow each are available to shareholders on application Directors were asked to declare any such conflict Director to focus on their particular Committee tothe Head of Commercial and or potential conflict of interest to the Board, responsibilities.
To ensure the Board is kept CompanySecretary.
andto request the Boards authorisation of any informed of the work of the Committees, the matter which otherwise might have given rise Committee Chairmen provide regular updates The Chairman is responsible for the leadership toa conflict of interest.
No conflicts have tothe Board.
In addition, papers and minutes and management of the Board.
ofCommittee meetings are made available heisresponsible for promoting a culture of toallDirectors.
openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors.
In addition, he is Professional advice and support responsible for ensuring that the Directors The Directors have full access to the advice Composition and appointments receive accurate, timely and clear information.
andservices of the Head of Commercial and The Board comprises a balance of Executive Company Secretary, who is responsible for Directors and independent Non-executive The Chief Executive is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on Directors which promotes thorough debate theexecutive leadership and day-to-day corporate governance matters.
They are also andconsideration of the important issues facing management of the Company and for able to seek independent professional advice Spectris and the Groups performance.
At the developing and delivering the strategy.
atthe Companys expense in respect of date of this report, there are a total of nine theirduties.
Directors, of whom two are Executive and six The Senior Independent Director provides a areNon-executive, in addition to the Chairman.
sounding board for the Chairman and serves Indemnity and insurance asan intermediary for the other Directors and In accordance with the Articles, the Company Ulf Quellmann and Bill Seeger were appointed to shareholders when necessary.
has granted a deed of indemnity, to the extent the Board as Non-executive Directors with effect permitted by law, to Directors, members of the from 1 January 2015.
A formal, rigorous and During the year, the Non-executive Directors, Executive Committee and senior managers.
transparent process is followed during the including the Chairman, met independently Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as selection and subsequent appointment of new ofmanagement.
defined by Section 234 of the Act were in force Directors to the Board.
Details regarding their during the year ended 31 December 2015 and appointment process can be found on page 66 remain in force.
The Company also maintains and their induction process can be found on directors and officers liability insurance.
Blue 4 is based on an evaluation of behaviours long-term success of the Company.
Feedback Feedback from the survey confirmed that the and activities shown to underpin outstanding onthese five elements was presented in Board is performing at a high level across all performance of company boards.
These termsof four criteria: areas.
However, a number of opportunities for behaviours are considered in terms of five enhancement were identified, including less elements strategy, communication, quality of Board engagement behaviours: formality on occasions and a desire for greater decision-making, governance and Board effectiveness in each area: time for quality discussions at a strategic level.
how important the Board considers These improvement areas will be further eachareato be: and considered and taken forward by the These five categories represent the major the amount of time the Board spends Boardduring 2016. accountabilities of the Board.
ofeach element helps to ensure the shortand 62 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
