RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS HOW WE DRIVE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our business model is built upon INNOVATION four closerelationships, which We invest around 7% of sales in R&D every together drive our success: year.
New products and solutions serve to protect our market position and enhance Continuous innovation.
organic growth by providing innovative solutions to customers problems.
Long-term customer Our continuous focus on innovation means relationships.
that we own a large number of patents, trademarks and intellectual property licences, and processes are in place to protect and In-depth expertise ofourpeople.
maximise the value of this proprietary technology.
This brings high barriers Reliable suppliers who meet toentryfor our competitors.
Bolt-on acquisitions provide an alternative route to new technology and many of our smaller acquisitions bring new products andthe associated inventors.
You can read more about our innovative customer solutions on pages 10 to 17 CUSTOMERS We pride ourselves on building long-term business relationships and over 80% of our Streamlining sales come from customers who have purchased processes from us in the preceding two years.
We work closely with our customers to understand the challenges they face and often involve them in the development and testing of new products.
Saving time Our customers are buying our knowledge and the technology that will help them to improve their business.
We improve productivity for them through streamlining processes, saving Increasing time, increasing yield and improving quality, and yield we work alongside them often within their plants in order to help install our products and ensure that the maximum benefits are achieved.
Improving We then offer a full range of aftermarket quality services and support including training, technical support, calibration and maintenance.
You can read more about our markets and growth drivers on pages 8 and 9 20 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 We invest around EMPLOYEES We employ around 8,300 highly-skilled 7% people, many of whom work directly with of sales in R&D every year.
customers, which gives them a deep understanding of their business and the productivity challenges they face.
We employ around We understand that intelligent innovation 8,300 requires a way of working that supports highly-skilled people, many ofwhom thedevelopment of new ideas and taking .
Our entrepreneurial culture offers a creative working environment with scope for individual responsibility and personal achievement.
We seek to attract and retain the best talentand are committed to providing equalemployment opportunities,  and training anddevelopment programmes.
You can read more about our people on pages 45 and 46 SUPPLIERS We believe that suppliers, and other business partners, should have the opportunity to benefit from their relationship with us.
Whatthis means in practice is working together to minimise and manage business riskand improve business practices, through education, training and the sharing of good practice.
Whilst each supply partner has the responsibility to manage its business practices in accordance with its own standards, values and local legislative framework, we will work with them to embrace our principles with the aim of creating a more sustainable business.
See our Supply Chain Management Policy atwww.
You can read more about our suppliers on page 47 21 www.
