ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Bill Seeger Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee I would like to thank John Warren, who retired A key role of the Committee is the oversight I am pleased to present my first from the Board, for his strong leadership of the ofthe Groups risk management processes.
Audit and Risk Committee Report Committee over the past nine years.
I have During 2015, a number of enhancements have inherited an effective and well-run Committee been made to the Groups risk management following my appointment as its that works collaboratively with management.
framework which are described in further detail Chairman in April 2015. later in the report.
In addition, to reflect best In recognition of the Committees growing practice, these changes will align our reporting responsibilities, the Committee agreed to framework more closely with the requirements introduce afourth formal meeting to its annual of the Code.
meeting schedule aligned to the Groups financial and governance reporting cycle.
The Further progress was made with the additional meeting will be of particular benefit Groupsinformation security programme.
as the Committee takes on additional oversight Anindependent assessment was undertaken with respect to the review of the long-term byanexternal adviser: details on this viability assessment.
The Committee also programme can be found on page 74. tookthe opportunity to clarify its responsibilities regarding provisions of the Code and considered Yours faithfully and approved changes to its terms of reference.
Bill Seeger In addition, a formal assessment of the external Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee auditor effectiveness was carried out during the 16 February 2016 year: further details can be found on page 73.
68 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Role of the Committee Committee meetings The Committees key function is to support The Committee met four times during the year.
Committee attendance is disclosed on page 61. theBoard in fulfilling its responsibilities in AtitsJuly meeting, the Committee approved a proposal to move to four formal meetings each reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys yearto coincide with key dates in the financial reporting cycle.
In addition, a revised schedule of agenda items was approved, which reflects current accounting, regulatory, risk and governance financial reporting, internal controls and risk requirements and practice.
The Head of Business Ethics and Governance and the GroupFinance management.
As part of this role, the Director worked with the Chairman to set each meetings agenda.
Committee provides advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, Committee meeting participation whentaken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Accounting, understandable and provides all the necessary Risk technical and information for shareholders to assess the management External corporate Companys performance, business model Internal and assurance Financial auditor governance 1 andstrategy.
In addition, the Committees audit including ethics reporting independence updates roleincludes monitoring and reviewing the Chief Executive effectiveness of the Groups internal controls Group Finance Director and risk management systems.
Business Group Directors The Committee operates under terms of reference: Company Secretary these were reviewed during the year and were Head of Business Ethics updated to reflect the additional responsibilities and Governance which the Board has delegated to the Committee Head of Internal Audit in relation to the viability statement.
Group Financial Controller Composition of the Committee 2 External auditor The Audit and Risk Committee is appointed bythe Board.
Its members are: Presented reports Participated in debate answered Committee questions 1 Committee members also receive regular technical updates from KPMGs Audit Committee Institute.
Bill Seeger Chairman 2 The external auditor met with the members of the Committee following the February 2015 and February 2016 meetings Peter Chambr in a private sessionwithout management present.
Ulf Quellmann Martha Wyrsch The Head of Business Ethics and Governance acts Activities in 2015 Audit and Risk Committee as Secretary to the Committee.
At the invitation Key issues considered by the Committee allocation oftime % of the Committee, any Director or other person duringthe year included: may be invited to attend meetings of the 40 10 Committee, if considered desirable in assisting a review of the 2014 and 2015 Financial theCommittee to fulfil its role: a table detailing Statements, including year-end key estimates meeting participation is shown on the right.
and judgements: 10 the fair, balanced and understandable Bill Seeger, having held several senior finance assessment: positions, is considered by the Board to have a review of the 2014 internal audit activity recent and relevant financial experience as and the2015 internal audit plan: required by the Code.
Each member of the a review of the ethics and compliance 20 20 Committee is an independent Non-executive programme: Director.
Further details regarding the Directors updates regarding the information skills and experience can be found in their securityprogramme: Financial Statements Internal audit biographies onpages 56 and 57. the output of the external auditor andreporting External audit effectiveness review: Culture, risk management Committee governance and controls, including The Board is satisfied that the Committee oversight of the process relating to information security hasthe resources and expertise to fulfil theviability statement: and itsresponsibilities.
the Committees terms of reference.
com ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Financial reporting provisions, given the judgemental nature These issues were discussed with management After discussion with both management and the ofthe assessment and estimation: and with the external auditor at the time the external auditor, the Committee determined that acquisition fair value accounting: and Committee reviewed and agreed the external the key risks of misstatement in the Groups misstatements.
auditors Group audit plan, when the auditor Financial Statements for 2015 were: reviewed the half-year interim Financial Impairment of goodwill and provisions are Statements in July 2015, and also at the the assessment of goodwill and intangible recurring in nature from year to year whilst conclusion of the 2015 audit of the full-year assets for impairment: acquisition fair value accounting relates Financial Statements.
specifically to acquisitions made during the year.
Key financial reporting matters in 2015 How the issue was addressed by the Committee Impairment of goodwill and During the year, management reviewed the weighted average cost of capital WACC calculation and the other intangible assets long-term growth rates to be applied in determining the discounted value of the projected cash flows of the cash-generating units as more fully explained in Note 11 to the Financial Statements.
This resulted in anominal post-tax WACC rate for the Group remaining unchanged at 7.9% 2014: 7.9% with long-term growth rates of 2.5% 2014: 4%.
The Committee reviewed the calculations and was satisfied that the assumptions were appropriate.
Management assessed the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets including detailed calculations of value in usefor those cash-generating units whose recoverable amount is not significantly greater than its carrying amount to ensure that the carrying values are supported by forecast future discounted cashflows.
As a result of the impairment assessment, no impairment charges were required, but disclosure was made in Note 11 to the Financial Statements regarding sensitivity analysis carried out onthe goodwill relating to Omega.
The external auditor explained the results of its own review of the estimate of value in use, including itschallenge of managements underlying cash flow projections as well as the long-term growth assumptions, discount rate and Financial Statements disclosure.
Onthe basis of its audit work, no impairments were identified and the disclosure in the Financial Statements was considered appropriate.
Following discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the approach taken by management was appropriate and that there was no requirement to record any impairment in the Financial Statements.
Provisions Working capital provisions Provisions are made to write down slow-moving and obsolete inventory items to net realisable value, based on an assessment of technological and market developments and on an analysis of historical and projected usage with regard to quantities.
The assessment used to calculate the provisions needed requires the application of judgement by management.
The Groups approach to trade receivables is for the initially-recognised fair value to be reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
The application of this approach requires judgement by management in respect of amounts which are deemed irrecoverable.
Further information about the Groups exposure to credit risk and the quality of receivables is set out in Note 14 to the Financial Statements.
Management confirmed to the Committee that there have been no significant changes to the approach used to estimate working capital provisions from the prior year.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work it had conducted during the year.
On the basis of its audit work, the external auditor reported no material inconsistencies or misstatements.
Following discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the judgements that had been exercised were appropriate and that therefore the provisions were appropriately stated at the year end.
Tax provisions Provisions held in respect of tax risks are included within current and deferred tax liabilities depending on the underlying circumstances of the provision.
Significant management judgement is exercised in arriving at the amounts to be provided.
Management confirmed to the Committee that the provisions recorded at 31 December 2015 represent their best estimate of the likely financial exposure faced by the Group.
70 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Key financial reporting matters in 2015 How the issue was addressed by the Committee Provisions continued The external auditor explained to the Committee the work it had conducted during the year, including how its audit procedures were focussed on those provisions with the highest level of judgement on recognition criteria and or measurement.
Following discussion with both management and the external auditor regarding the key judgements which had been made, the Committee was satisfied that they were reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision amounts recorded were appropriate.
Other provisions including product warranty, restructuring and legal provisions As further explained in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, a provision is recognised in the Financial Statements when the Group has apresent legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can be reliably measured, will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are recognised at an amount equal to managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability, taking into account the time value of money, wherethis is considered material.
On legal and contractual exposures, the Committee received reports in January and July 2015 and January 2016 from the Head of Commercial and Company Secretary outlining the open legal and contractual disputes and best estimate of the expected costs associated with such matters.
Management confirmed to the Committee that the provisions recorded at 31 December 2015 represented their best estimate of the likely financial exposure faced by the Group.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work it had conducted during the year, which supported the carrying value of theprovisions.
Following discussion of the key assumptions and judgements, the Committee concluded that the carrying values were reasonable in the circumstances.
Further information about the specific categories of provisions held by the Group is set out in Note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Acquisition fair value accounting Judgement is required to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, particularly in respect of intangible assets which can be industry specific.
Contingent consideration payable on the achievement of future sales targets is dependent on the achievement of these targets.
As a result, judgement is required in measuring the fair value of the Groups contingent consideration obligation, both at the acquisition date and atthe Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date.
The Committee considered the approach taken by management and the work undertaken by the external auditor and concluded that the judgements that had been made were fair andappropriate.
Misstatements Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of any material or immaterial misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular presentation.
The Committee confirms that as a result of the presentations made to the Committee by the external auditor and the ensuing discussions and questioning of the external auditor by Committee members, it is satisfied that the external auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence and .
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management and consulting where necessary with the external auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the Financial Statements appropriately address critical judgements and key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and thedisclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised and challenged, and are sufficiently robust.
com ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Following review and comment by both the detailed analysis of the Groups key risks Fair, balanced and understandable Committee and the Board, the Annual Report including mapping of risks to controls to The Code requires the Board to confirm that and Accounts was subject to final approval by sources of assurance: and they consider the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board.
a summary of specific stress testing carried taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and out in respect of five of the Groups key risks.
understandable and that it provides the The Committee was satisfied with the process information necessary for shareholders to undertaken in preparing the Annual Report Following due challenge and debate, the assessthe Companys performance, business andAccounts.
Following discussions at our Committee recommended the viability statement model and strategy.
The Committee provided February 2016 meeting, we have advised the for approval by the Board.
The viability assistance to the Board in this regard by Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, statement and the process undertaken can considering the robustness of the process taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and befound on page 31. bywhich the Annual Report and Accounts understandable and provides the information isprepared.
The processes adopted in necessary for shareholders to assess the Internal audit relationtothe 2015 Annual Report involved performance, strategy and business model The Committee is responsible for reviewing the thefollowing: oftheCompany.
Groups internal controls through engagement with the Head of Internal Audit, who is Specific ownership and responsibility for Viability statement employed to perform control reviews across theindividual sections was allocated and The Committee provided assistance to the Board theGroup according to a work programme documented, which was then provided to the in relation to the viability statement required agreed by the Committee.
Committee as part of its review of the process.
During the year, the Committee During the compilation period regular considered an assessment of our risk The 2015 internal audit plan was established meetings were held with members of Group management framework.
This resulted in a based on a number of factors.
These included Finance, Group Secretariat and Corporate number of enhancements to further develop ensuring that an appropriate level of audit Affairs, all primary authors of the Annual how the Group evaluates risk and to ensure a coverage of the internal controls as applied to Report.
These meetings ensured that there sharper focus on the mapping of risks against the Groups core financial processes is achieved was appropriate linkage between the various controls and assurance through implementing through rotational site visits, whilst also sections of the report and that our reporting the lines of defence approach to the Groups providing the Committee with reasonable was balanced.
Further detail can be found in the assurance that controls in respect of certain key An extensive verification exercise was Strategic Report on page 31. areas of risk management, such as compliance undertaken to ensure factual accuracy.
with laws andregulations or new product The content of the Annual Report was subject At the Committees December meeting, a draft development, operate effectively.
to comprehensive reviews by Executive and of the viability statement was considered, in senior management.
In particular, a review addition to an extensive review of the risks The Head of Internal Audit is assisted in this ofthe entire Annual Report and Accounts andstress testing carried out under robust but work by six further internal auditors who are wasundertaken to ensure that it promotes credible scenarios.
The Committee debated located in key strategic locations of the USA, consistency and balance between the theselection of the period over which the Asia and the UK.
In addition, the Internal Audit narrative front half and accounts sections.
Boardshould make its viability statement function is supported by additional resources At our December 2015 meeting, the andrecommended a three-year period to the asrequired, drawn both internally from within Committee reviewed the latest draft of Board for consideration.
the organisation and externally through the2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
At our February 2016 meeting, the Committeechallenged the fair, balanced In addition, at our February 2016 meeting the andunderstandable assessment and Committee examined: The Committee debated and agreed the examinedwhether appropriate balance and adequacy of internal assurance resources at its equal prominence had been given topositive a baseline assessment of the Groups financial meetings in January and July 2015 and January and negative news.
position, including sensitivity analysis on sales 2016, during which progress on the internal and EBITDA from both a liquidity and bank audit plan was also assessed.
covenant perspective: 72 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 The external auditors full-year report to Each operating company regularly assesses, Committees prior approval.
Non-audit fees theCommittee contained a statement on evaluates and reports risks of Group significance forservices provided by KPMG for the year itsindependence and compliance with the against established criteria with respect to amounted to 0.2million 12% of the audit fee.
AuditingPractices Boards Ethical Standards, theimpact, likelihood and time frame of Further detailsareincluded in Note 5 to the Financial Statements and information regarding arrangements to manage conflicts of interest, eachidentified risk.
In addition, each operating the Companys non-audit services policy is and the nature and associated fees for company is required to document how it is providedbelow.
non-auditservices provided, which was managing and mitigating these risks.
of the status of risks is reviewed by the Effectiveness and independence Committee at least twice a year.
The Board considers it of prime importance that The cumulative cap, periodic refreshment of the external auditor remains independent and theexternal audit team and review of its work, Additional information on the Groups risk objective.
To assess the effectiveness of the together with the ten-year re-tendering of the management framework is on pages 24 to 25 in external auditor, the Committee carried out an external audit service contract, are considered the Strategic Report.
Further information on the assessment of KPMG.
This included a review of by the Committee to be appropriate controls processes which the Board and the Committee the agreed audit plan, reports of major issues tomitigate threats to the independence and have applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the arising from the audit process and commentary objectivity of the external auditor.
Groups internal control framework is on page 24. from the Group Finance Director, Group Finance, Internal Audit and operating company Appointment Whistleblowing policy and process management teams.
A review of the procedures The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Details of the Groups whistleblowing policy are followed by the external auditor to achieve audit selection process relating to the appointment of provided within the Ethics Report on page 49. quality was also carried out.
In addition, an the external auditor, making recommendations internal questionnaire completed by Committee to the Board for the external auditors External audit members and relevant members of management re-appointment and approving the external The Committee manages the relationship with on their views of KPMGs performance was also auditors remuneration, its terms of engagement the Groups external auditor on behalf of the undertaken.
The questionnaire covered a review and scope of work.
The Committee is responsible for the of the audit partner and team, the audit selection process relating to the appointment of approach, audit plan execution, auditor Re-appointment of the external auditor is the external auditor, making recommendations independence and objectivity, and robustness of considered by the Committee each year to the Board for the external auditors challenge of management.
The feedback received following a review of the external auditors re-appointment and approving the external was reviewed by management and reported to effectiveness.
As noted previously, the output auditors remuneration, its terms of engagement the Committee.
At the December meeting, the ofthe effectiveness review was considered by and scope of work as well as whether a formal Committee discussed the improvements to be the Committee.
Following the review as to tender process is required.
theeffectiveness of KPMG, the Committee wascontent to re-appoint KPMG as the The Committee has considered the risk of the The Committee has a non-audit services policy Groupsexternal auditor at the AGM held withdrawal of its external auditor from the market governing and restricting the appointment of the on24April 2015. in its risk evaluation and planning and has external auditor for non-audit services.
Services concluded that the risk is insignificant.
In the which have the potential to, or appear to, impair Audit tender event that theCompanys external auditor did exit their independence, for example involvement KPMG was appointed as the Companys the market, a replacement appointment would be inactivities that require making judgements external auditor in 1998.
In line with rotation made fromaudit firms of equivalent standing.
ordecisions which are the responsibility of requirements, the lead audit partner has management, are expressly excluded.
The current audit partner Non-audit fees policyis available on the Companys website.
is Richard Broadbelt, who was appointed in The Committee considers it essential to The Committee is aware of the changes being April 2012.
His five-year tenure aslead audit rigorously impose a cumulative annual cap introduced under the EU Audit Reforms to partner will end in 2017. fornon-audit services provided by our external restrict non-audit services and fees and will be auditor KPMG LLP KPMG save for acquisition reviewing theCompanys non-audit services due diligence and taxation services, above policy during2016.
which allengagements are subject to the 73 www.
com ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The key elements of the Groups internal controls Under the Competition and Markets Authoritys by validating the critical information assets in operating companies, benchmarking the risks are described below: Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies and performing a detailed controls maturity Market Investigation Order 2014 the CMA assessment.
The UK Governments Ten Steps to Day-to-day operational activities are Order, the Company is required to put the Cyber Security was used as a consistent control conducted within an established internal external audit out for competitive tender by framework for mitigating key areas of risk for control framework comprising clear rules, 2023 and, thereafter, every ten years.
It is the internal and external benchmarking, resulting in policies, lines of responsibility and Committees policy to meet this requirement.
detailed information security roadmaps being delegatedauthorities.
developed for all operating companies.
During A Group Policies and Procedures Manual As stated in our 2014 Annual Report, it is the 2016, operating companies will continue theManual provides a common control Companys intention that the next competitive implementing the recommendations contained framework and sets out the minimum tender will take place in 2016.
The Committee within the information security roadmaps.
standards, procedures and internal controls believes this to be the most appropriate time tobe applied in relation to managing technical, tocomplete the competitive tender process, Internal control commercial, legal and financial risks.
considering the length of time that KPMG has The Board is ultimately responsible for the The consistent application of Group been the Companys auditor, and it is in line Groups system of internal controls and for accounting policies and reporting protocols withthe audit partner rotation requirements.
carrying out a robust assessment of the issupplemented by oversight from the Onbehalf of the Board, the Committee will principalrisks facing the Group.
oversee the tender process, negotiate the fee Monthly reporting from the Groups forthe provision of statutory audit services and Consistent with the guidance provided for operatingcompanies captures each businesss make a recommendation to the Board on the directors on internal control by the FRC performance against plan and highlights appointment of the external auditor.
The Guidance on Risk Management, Internal keydevelopments in relation to commercial objective of the tender process will be to Control and Related Financial and Business outlook, operational matters, legal issues benchmark value, service and fees, and identify Reporting, whichreflects the Code, the Board andinternal controls.
areas where the external auditor can add value confirms that: Annual strategic and financial plans are to our risk and control environment.
There are established for each segment and operating no contractual or similar obligations restricting there is a robust, ongoing process for company and are subject to review and the Groups choice of external auditor.
The identifying, evaluating and managing approval.
Performance against the plans is Committee confirms that it complies with the theprincipal risks faced by the Group: subject to ongoing review by the Executive provisions of the CMA Order.
this has been in place for the year ended Directors and the Group has a comprehensive 31December 2015 and up to the date system for reporting performance to Risk management ofapprovalof the Annual Report and theBoard.
The Board, when setting the strategy, also Accounts: and Significant capital investments or contractual determines the nature and extent of the this process has been reviewed by commitments and major acquisitions or significant risks and its risk appetite in theBoardduring the year.
divestments are all subject to a clear process for implementing this strategy.
Each year, the appraisal, review and approval by the Board.
Boardcarries out a robust assessment of the The Board recognises that internal control is An ethics hotline exists for employees and effectiveness of the Groups risk management adynamic process.
Therefore, the Groups other third parties to use to report any systems: details of the assessment are provided internal control framework, including the risk instances of suspected wrongdoing.
on pages 24 and 25. management process, is subject to ongoing review and improvements are made to ensure Information security that, where appropriate, the framework is During 2015, further progress was made with adapted to the Groups changing risk profile our information security programme.
External orin order to address any weaknesses consultants undertook an independent identifiedin the control framework itself.
assessment of the information security project 74 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 The processes which the Board and the Audit Risks and Uncertainties section.
The effectiveness of risk management and and Risk Committee have applied in reviewing mitigation is reviewed regularly by the the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Executive Directors and twice yearly by framework include the following: theAudit and Risk Committee.
The Executive Directors report to the Board The Board notes that, as with all such systems, onchanges in the business and external the Groups internal control framework is environment which present significant risks.
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk The Executive Directors provide the Board with offailure to achieve business objectives, and monthly trading and financial information which canprovide only reasonable and not absolute includes key performance indicators and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
information on the Groups operating segments.
Regular reports on significant legal, ethics, Going concern compliance and insurance matters are received The going concern statement can be found from the Head of Commercial and Company onpage 96.
Secretary, including summaries of any reports received through the Groups ethics hotline.
Business model A certification process in relation to compliance A description of the Groups business model with the Manual, accounting judgements and canbe found in the Strategic Report on pages representations has been established, providing 18 to 21. for a documented trail of accountability from operating company senior management to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Group has an Internal Audit function which reviews the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of internal controls across the Groups operations, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives regular reports on the output of internal audit activity, including the operation of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal controls and procedures.
A control self-assessment process against theGroups internal control standards is completed by each operating company and each material location, with any gaps in controls assessed and remediation plans established asappropriate.
The Groups approach to risk management is described on pages 24 and 25 of the Principal 75 www.
