GOVERNANCE Audit and Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder, The external auditor provided reports for the ROBERT LERWILL half year and year end reporting, including On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee COMMITTEE CHAIR all significant issues, with an assessment the Committee, I am pleased to present its of the appropriateness of managements report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Our priority is in laying judgements.
The Committee considered that The Committee normally meets at least managements judgements were cautious, the foundations for three times a year.
It met four times in 2015, but not overly prudent.
maintaining the highest with attendance disclosed on page 71.
At the request of the Board, the Committee standards of governance The Committee normally invites the external considered whether the Annual Report auditor and the Chief Financial Officer to and Accounts for the year ended 2015 was and risk management attend each meeting and other members fair, balanced and understandable, and across the business.
of the management team attend as and whether it provided the necessary when invited.
Representatives of the Groups information for the shareholders to assess external auditor have a private session with the Groups performance, business model the Committee or Chair of the Committee and strategy.
The Committee took into when required.
account its own knowledge of the Group, its strategy and performance in the year, EXTERNAL FINANCIAL REPORTING internal verification of the factual content, The Committee is responsible for comprehensive review undertaken at monitoring, reviewing and challenging the different levels in the Group to ensure integrity of the financial statements, and consistency and overall balance, and detailed ensuring compliance with legal, regulatory review by senior management and the and statutory requirements, giving due external auditor.
The Committee was consideration to the provisions of the UK satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Corporate Governance Code.
Report and Accounts for the year ended 2015 is fair, balanced and understandable, and has affirmed that view to the Board.
ACTIVITIES The main activities relating to the financial year were as follows: agreeing the Committees rolling agenda for 2015: approving the terms of engagement of the external auditor, including its remuneration and reviewing its independence: approving the plan for the external audit for 2015: discussing and reviewing the Groups accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements: assessing going concern and the viability of the Group: receiving and approving the half year results and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2015: reviewing the risk management framework for the Group, including risk appetite and risk evaluation methodology and reviewing the Group risk register: and reviewing the systems of internal control, including assessing the requirement for an internal audit function.
68 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ISSUES AND MATERIAL JUDGEMENTS The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The table below summarises the matters where the most material judgements have been made in relation to reporting in 2015.
Ernst & Young LLP EY also identified these matters in its audit report, commenting that they had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources and in directing the efforts of the engagement team: Matters Judgement and estimation required How the Committee gained comfort on the matter Improper Pressure to achieve results and secure bonus payments Management carry out a detailed review of monthly revenue could lead management to manipulate the financial hospital performance compared to forecast, in particular recognition reporting of revenue.
This could include the: focusing on the cut-off of revenue reported at the management balance sheet date.
manipulation of prices charged, in particular in relation manipulation to NHS and PMI revenue: An external audit was carried out to test the adequacy of intentional mis-coding of procedures by hospitals clinical coders, which did not raise any issues of concern.
impacting revenue recorded: The Committee noted that substantive testing had been misreporting of other income in the year: and carried out by EY, for example, to test the completeness overstatement of deferred revenue at the year end.
of cash received after the year end in respect of invoices raised for the various customer revenue streams.
EYs testing did not reveal any areas of concern.
Improper The complexity of the pricing structures and the high An external audit was carried out to test the adequacy of revenue volume of procedures undertaken present a risk in clinical coders, which did not raise any issues of concern.
recognition relation to the accuracy and completeness of revenue The Committee noted the testing of key manual controls complexity of recognition, in particular the use of incorrect codes carried out by EY, which included substantive testing of PMI and NHS or prices.
a sample of transactions back to proof of procedure and contracts price lists.
No significant issues were noted by them during the course of their audit.
Inappropriate Expenditure on internal capital projects is high.
The Committee considered the controls over capital capitalisation Construction is under way on two new hospitals.
expenditure incorporated within the Groups project of development Additionally, the Group is developing Spire St Anthonys management procedures, as implemented by the costs Hospital at an expected total cost of 27.0 million, and business development team.
undertaking other major projects at existing hospitals.
The Committee noted the work carried out by EY in A 14.0 million Specialist Cancer Care Centre was verifying the amounts being capitalised as part of EYs completed at Baddow in the year.
No issues of concern were noted.
There is a risk of inappropriate capitalisation to these projects to enhance reported earnings.
Spire Manchester Spire Healthcares new hospital in West Didsbury, The Committee reviewed managements analysis of Hospital asset Manchester, will be opening in early 2017. economic forecasts of the existing hospital and tested impairment the key assumptions and risks inherent therein.
It paid An impairment charge of 5.7 millon is made to fully particular attention to the scenario analyses and the write down the carrying value of leasehold improvements impact of key variables on the revenues, direct costs and and medical equipment by 31 December 2016.
This expenditure relating to running the facility.
charge reflects the diminished earning potential of the existing Spire Manchester Hospital.
The existing facility is held under a long lease.
Following the assessment of the operational options available, the Directors concluded that no further provision is required under this commitment.
Provisions for Such claims are typically complex.
Judgement is required The Committee reviewed managements detailed report patient claims in the estimation of the size and incidence of claims, on the status of live claims and information concerning which is usually based on professional advice and the settlement of related claims.
It also considered the historical information on similar claims.
advice provided by the Groups external legal and insurance advisers.
The Group recognised total net provisions of 8.2 million at 31 December 2015.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 69 GOVERNANCE Audit and Risk Committee Report continued The Committee ensures that the external The Committee has recommended, and OUR PRIORITIES FOR 2016 auditor adheres to The Auditing Practices the Board has agreed, that, subject to These include the following: Boards Ethical Standard 3, which requires shareholder approval, EY will be reappointed the rotation of the audit partner for listed as the Companys auditor at the annual roll-out of the updated risk companies every five years.
EY has audited general meeting in May 2016. management procedures: the financial statements of Spire Healthcare review of the consolidated risk register: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL since 2008.
A new audit engagement review findings of the internal audit CONTROLS partner, Debbie OHanlon, was appointed work commissioned: An overview of the risk management and during the year.
As a FTSE 250 company, confirm our internal audit priorities for internal controls processes are contained on we will comply with the new provisions 2017: and pages 48 to 49.
The Committee, with the requiring an audit tender at least every agree the 2016 external audit plan.
assistance of the Clinical Governance and 10 years and our approach to this will be Safety Committee CGSC which focuses on INTERNAL AUDIT considered further in 2016. key non-financial risks, including patient and During the year, the Committee agreed As noted, we reviewed the independence clinical risks, carried out the following: the scope of internal audits activities and and effectiveness of the external auditor.
A high-level reviewed the work carried out by the CGSC We did this by: Internal Audit Plan is to be approved by in relation to the risks within its remit: the Committee on an annual basis.
reviewing its proposed plan for the reviewed the Groups system of 2015 audit: Audit activity will be focused on areas internal control: identified as high risk, in particular where discussing the results of its audit, including undertook a review of cybersecurity: existing regulatory controls and its views about material accounting issues inspections are not considered to be and key judgements and estimates, and its monitored the risks and associated sufficiently comprehensive in terms of audit report: controls over the financial reporting providing independent assurance on the processes, including the process by which reviewing the quality of the people and effectiveness of internal controls.
The the Groups financial statements are service provided by EY: and specific areas of focus for 2016 include: prepared for publication: and evaluating all of the relationships between cybersecurity and IT risk management: reviewed reports from the external auditor the external auditor and the Group, to revenue recognition and fraud risk: and on any issues identified during the course determine whether these impair, or appear clinical performance data integrity.
of its work, including a report on control to impair, the auditors independence.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR NON-AUDIT SERVICES AND The Committee oversees the Groups The overall risk management framework, INDEPENDENCE relationship with the external auditor and including the Boards appetite for risk There are certain services termed excluded formally reviews the relationship, policies and the underlying process for capturing services that are not permitted to be and procedures to ensure independence.
and reporting risk and control data, provided by the external auditor, including will continue to be reviewed by the where the auditor may be required to audit Board and its committees during 2016 its own work, would participate in activities to ensure that changes to reflect the new that would normally be undertaken by regulatory environment and best practice management or is remunerated through are incorporated.
VIABILITY Total non-audit services provided by EY to The Committee spent time, at two meetings, the Group for the year ended 31 December reviewing the process undertaken by 2015 totalled 71,000, the majority of which management to support and allow the related to IT services 2014: 0.5 million for Directors to make the Groups viability services on Admission.
The Committee considered and The Committee considers the requirements provided input into the determination of of the UK Corporate Governance Code and which of the Groups principal risks and the appropriateness of tendering the combinations thereof might have an impact external audit contract as part of normal on the Groups liquidity and solvency.
Based on an ongoing The Committee reviewed the results of assessment, for example, of the quality managements scenario modelling and the of the external auditors report to the stress testing of these models.
The viability Committee and the audit partners statement can be found on page 49. interaction with the Committee, the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
The Committee, therefore, has not considered it necessary to require the audit to be put to tender.
70 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION WHISTLEBLOWING The Committee also continued its Audit and Risk Committee at a glance monitoring and oversight of the procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE of qualifying disclosures by staff.
The Audit and Risk Committee must have at least three members, all of whom must be independent Non-Executive Directors.
At least one member of the Committee must have The Group offers its staff an independent been determined to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Robert Lerwill has been and confidential service, where staff may identified by the Board as meeting this requirement.
register any concerns about any wrongdoing or safety at work.
The General Counsel Committee Committee meetings and Group Company Secretary is, as Member member since Position in Company attended in 2015 Whistleblowing Officer, responsible for the investigation of any concerns arising and Robert Lerwill July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 reporting directly to the Committee.
Committee Chair Director Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 ACCOUNTABILITY Director Following a detailed review by the Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 Committee of the Corporate Risk Register Director and the principal risks drawn from it, consideration of reports on the operation Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings out of the number eligible to attend.
of the risk management and internal If members are unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to control systems from senior management, discuss any agenda items with the Committees Chair.
Members biographies are shown the results of all external audit, review on pages 58 and 59. and inspection activity and all reported risk events, the Directors confirmed that The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, is secretary to the Committee.
no material failings or weaknesses were identified.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting and internal ANNUAL EVALUATION OF THE financial controls of the Group, for reviewing the Groups internal control and risk COMMITTEES PERFORMANCE management systems, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external The first evaluation of the Committees auditor of the Group and for reporting its findings and recommendations to the Board.
performance was carried out in 2015 which These comprise: confirmed that it had fulfilled its obligations as set out within its terms of reference.
receiving and reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group and half yearly financial statements and any public financial announcements, and advising the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable: receiving and reviewing reports from the external auditor, monitoring its effectiveness Robert Lerwill and independence, and approving its appointment and terms of engagement: Chair, Audit and Risk Committee monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management system: 16 March 2016 reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and assessing and advising the Board on the internal financial, operational and compliance controls: and overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and relating to whistleblowing.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 71
