How the Board works Leadership the Board.
Establishing a schedule assists the - the Groups corporate governance risk The role of the Board Board in the effective discharge of its duties, management and system of internal control: The Board is collectively responsible to the by documenting which decisions are for Board - significant changes in consumer prices: Companys shareholders for the long-term approval and which decisions can be delegated - changes in capital structure of the Group: success of SSE and for its overall strategic to management.
Oversight of delegated matters - Board and Committee membership: direction, values and governance.
It provides the is retained through the provision of reports - major acquisitions, mergers, disposals and leadership necessary for the Group to meet its from Executive Directors and the Executive capital expenditure: business objectives, whilst ensuring that a sound Committee.
Matters reserved exclusively for - approval of key policies such as safety, health system of internal control and risk management Board consideration include: and environment: and is in place.
The work of the Board is underpinned - Group strategy: - regulatory matters including price control by SSEs core purpose, to provide the energy - annual budget: reviews proposed by Ofgem.
people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
- approval of interim and full financial statements: The powers and duties of the Directors are - interim dividend payments and This schedule is reviewed regularly by the Board determined by legislation and by the Companys recommendation of final dividends: and is published on the SSE website along with Articles of Association.
A formal schedule of - significant changes in accounting policy the Articles of Association.
matters is specifically reserved for decision by and practice: SSEs corporate governance structure Board of Directors Responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of SSE and for its overall strategic direction, values and governance.
Nomination Audit Safety, Health and Remuneration Committee Committee Environment Advisory Committee Committee Reviews and monitors the Assists the Board in Sets remuneration policy Advises the Board on safety, leadership needs of the discharging its responsibilities and approves the detailed health and environment Board and senior management in relation to financial remuneration terms for matters including policy, team and supports SSEs reporting, internal control, the Executive Directors targets and strategy, to continued ability to recruit and risk management and the on behalf of the Board.
improve performance and retain the level and quality of relationship with the See pages 90 to 108. support SSEs safety value.
Executive Committee Responsible for implementing the strategy, values and governance set by the Board, whilst leading the day to day running and operations of SSE.
Safety, Health Risk and Risk Large Capital Capital Governance Information and Environment Trading Committee Projects Allocation and Disclosure Security Committee Committee Ireland Committee Group Committee Steering Group Reviews safety, Supports Reviews business Ensures projects Assesses the Oversees and Recommends and health and management of operations are governed, requirement for, advises on implements the environment risks by reviewing in Ireland, developed, and efficient use governance best appropriate control performance the market, credit, ensuring optimal approved and of, capital for practice, corporate environment to against targets operational and perfomance executed in ways investments in conduct and ensure protection and implements liquidity risks and is achieved by that are compliant the Wholesale disclosure, monitors from specific and the strategy issues arising from managing and with SSEs Large business and makes compliance and strategic cyber for improved Energy Portfolio understanding Capital Projects recommendations develops investor security risks.
performance to Management, the inherent risks Governance to the Executive relations strategy.
support SSEs Wholesale, Retail facing new and Framework.
and treasury existing business operations.
