GOVERNANCE The senior leadership team ANDREW WHITE DR JEAN-JACQUES fide GORTER PETER CORFIELD NEIL MCCULLOUGH DANIEL TONER ANTONY MANNION CAROLINE ROBERTS JONATHAN PAISLEY ANDREW WHITE DR JEAN-JACQUES fide GORTER PETER CORFIELD E E E Chief Operating Officer Group Medical Director Commercial Director Andrew joined Spire Healthcare in Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter is the Group Peter joined Spire Healthcare in October November 2015 as Chief Operations Medical Director and has overseen Spire 2015 as Group Commercial Director and Officer and is responsible for the Groups Healthcares clinical governance and quality has responsibility for delivering revenue day-to-day operational management.
Prior to this, he served growth through our three payor groups He will be appointed an Executive Director as director of Clinical Services for Bupa and identifying new business opportunities.
Hospitals and as a medical director for He has held a number of senior executive NHS Direct.
and board roles within the financial Andrew began his working life in the Royal services industry in the UK, most recently Electrical and Mechanical Engineers and He is currently a non-executive director at as managing director of Ageas Retail Direct.
served in Bosnia, Northern Ireland and the the Milton Keynes Foundation Trust and Prior to this, Peter worked for both Zurich first Gulf War.
After leaving the army in 1995, chairs its Quality Committee.
Jean-Jacques Financial Services Group and Royal Bank of Andrew held senior positions at Serco plc and graduated with a Bachelor of Medicine Scotland in various roles that covered Europe, Nomura Principal Finance Group and later and Bachelor of Surgery from Charing Middle East and Japan.
Andrew Cross and Westminster Medical School became CEO of Serco UK&E Local & Regional and subsequently completed his MBA Peter has completed the RBS Harvard Government division in January 2014 where degree at Cranfield School of Management.
Business School Executive Education he was responsible for all aspects of Sercos Programme and the Zurich Executive business in the UK and Europe.
Andrew is an ambassador to the National Apprenticeship Service and has been the Industry Chair of the Defence Suppliers Forum Executive Group.
He has also been a non-executive director of the Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE and chair of the AWE Science, Engineering and Technology Advisory Committee.
Andrew attended the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School in 2013.
60 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Management committee membership: E Executive Committee member Committee Chair NEIL MCCULLOUGH DANIEL TONER ANTONY MANNION Business Development Director E General Counsel and Investor and Public Relations Director E Neil joined Spire Healthcare on its Group Company Secretary E Antony joined Spire Healthcare as Investor formation in 2007 as Hospital Director at Daniel joined Bupa Hospitals as head and Public Relations Director in March 2012, Spire Cambridge Lea Hospital before joining of legal in 2006 before being appointed having spent seven years at SSL International the executive team in 2011.
In his role, General Counsel and Group Company plc, until its acquisition by Reckitt Benckiser Neil oversees Spire Healthcares business Secretary upon Spire Healthcares formation Group plc in 2010, as group legal director development strategy both at the local in 2007.
He oversees all legal activity at Spire and head of acquisitions.
hospital level and corporately in the UK, Healthcare, ensures compliance with Prior to SSL International plc, Antony as well as internationally.
statutory and regulatory requirements, worked as a corporate lawyer at Freshfields and that decisions of the Board of Directors Following an early career in accounting and in London and Paris, then as an investment are realised.
finance, Neil moved into healthcare in 1993 banker at Citicorp in London and New York, working with Bupa UK Membership, where Daniel is a director of NHS Partners Network.
and at Standard Chartered in Singapore.
he held a number of senior sales and Previously, he worked for international law Antony has a wide range of experience relationship management roles.
He joined firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and also in all areas of corporate finance, and has the Bupa Hospitals business in 1998, holding within the commercial directorate at the worked on significant acquisition and IPO hospital general manager roles in both Department of Health.
transactions in both the UK and overseas.
Neil then moved into preventative healthcare with Bupa Wellness in 2002, where, as sales director, he led the rapid expansion of the business for five years.
CAROLINE ROBERTS JONATHAN PAISLEY Group Human Resources Director Chief Information Officer Caroline joined Spire Healthcare as Group Jonathan joined Spire Healthcare in Human Resources Director in September September 2015, having spent 19 years 2015 to develop and implement the with IBM Global Services.
He has worked Companys HR strategy for growth.
In her across various industries and around role, Caroline oversees all aspects of frontline the globe, leading complex business change services including employment and welfare, and technology adoption programmes training, education and financial advice.
for the worlds leading companies and government departments.
Caroline has experience in a variety of sectors under public, private and private He brings a combination of business and equity ownership with significant technology strategy, coupled with in-depth international exposure.
She has held a application and infrastructure delivery number of senior executive and board roles, experience.
Passionate about emerging most recently as group HR director at Action technology, and its healthcare potential, For Employment Ltd.
Prior to this, Caroline he is focused on the ongoing transformation has worked for The Royal Mint, Terra Firma of the patient journey and the continual Capital Investors and British Airways Plc.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 61
