GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder, A key focus for the Committee this year JOHN GILDERSLEEVE will be the recruitment of a new Chief COMMITTEE CHAIR During the year, the Nomination Committee Executive Officer and I hope to be in a the Committee met for the first time since position to update you on this matter in the Companys Admission in July 2014 and As a Committee, we next years report.
I was extremely pleased with the level of acknowledge the importance debate and the collective decisions that 2015 ACTIVITIES we reached as a group.
of diversity, including gender, As a Committee our priorities during the year have been to: both on the Board and DIRECTOR CHANGES You will have already read in the Annual review and recommend the Director throughout the organisation.
Report 2015 about the changes to the changes to the Board: Companys Board of Directors that were evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge made during both 2015 and since the year and experience on the Board and its end.
I cannot emphasise enough the diversity, including gender: importance of the role that the Committee has played in all of these decisions.
undertake our first performance review: Following the decision by Cinven to sell review the independence of each its shareholding to Mediclinic International Non-Executive Director, and the balance of in June 2015, the Committee agreed that skills, knowledge, experience and diversity Simon Rowlands should remain as a on the Board prior to recommending Non-Executive Director.
We concluded Directors re-election at the annual general that Simons deep experience both of Spire meeting: and Healthcare itself, and of the private hospital review and update the Committees terms industry in the UK and overseas, would of reference.
continue to be a valuable asset to the Board as the Company continues to develop.
In COMMITTEE EVALUATION August 2015, the Committee reviewed the The Committee completed its first annual decision by Mediclinic International to performance evaluation as part of the overall propose Danie Meintjes as a Non-Executive Board evaluation process and the findings Director under the terms of the relationship relating to the Nomination Committee were agreement with them, and subsequently discussed and reviewed by the Committee.
recommended to the Board that he be The Committee was considered to be appointed a Non-Executive Director.
operating effectively in fulfilling its duties throughout 2015.
More recently, the Committee has endorsed the Boards decision to: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION appoint Garry Watts as Executive As a Committee we acknowledge the Chairman from 13 March 2016.
This is to importance of diversity, including gender, coincide with the decision by Rob Roger to both on the Board and throughout the step down as Chief Executive Officer: and organisation.
We pride ourselves on our inclusive nature as a company.
appoint Andrew White, our Chief Operating Officer, as an Executive Director on 1 July 2016.
74 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our aim is for the Board to consist of individuals with diverse experience Nomination Committee at a glance who can add real value to Board debates, thereby supporting the achievement of COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE our strategic objectives.
This includes The Nomination Committee must have at least three members, the majority of whom diversity of industry skills, knowledge must be independent Non-Executive Directors, in line with the provisions of the UK and experience in addition to gender and Corporate Governance Code.
The Board appoints the Chair of the Committee, who must ethnicity.
We are always extremely mindful be either the Chairman of the Board or an independent Non-Executive Director.
of Lord Davies recommendations on The Nomination Committee members during the year were: this matter and will continue to work towards this as and when positions arise.
Committee Committee meetings However, our overriding intent in any new Member member since Position in Company attended in 2015 appointment must always be to select on John Gildersleeve July 2014 Deputy Chairman and Senior 4 4 merit, in fulfilment of our role of ensuring Committee Chair Independent Director the continued success of the Company.
Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 Director RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Committee met in March 2016 and Robert Lerwill July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 reviewed the continuation in office, and Director potential reappointment, of all members Rob Roger July 2014 Chief Executive Officer 4 4 of the Board.
Following this review, the Committee recommended to the Board The maximum number of meetings that the member could have attended during 2015 that all Directors should be reappointed, is shown in brackets.
Members biographies are shown on pages 58 and 59. and hence all Directors will seek re-election The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, is secretary to the Committee.
at the annual general meeting.
TERMS OF REFERENCE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Under its terms of reference, the Committee The Committees foremost priorities are to ensure that the Group has the best and its members are empowered to possible leadership and a clear plan for both Executive and Non-Executive Director obtain outside legal or other independent succession.
Its prime focus is, therefore, to concentrate upon the strength of the Board, professional advice at the cost of the Group for which appointments will be made on merit against objective criteria, selecting in relation to its deliberations which were the best candidate for the post.
The Nomination Committee advises the Board on not exercised during the year and to secure these appointments, and also on retirements and resignations from the Board, and the attendance at its meetings of any its other Committees.
employee or other parties, should it be The Committee will regularly examine succession planning based on the Boards balance considered necessary.
of skills and overall diversity.
Led by the Committee, succession planning of the Board will form an integral part of the Boards annual strategy meeting.
PROCESS FOR BOARD APPOINTMENTS John Gildersleeve When considering Board recruitment, the Committee will draw up a specification for a Chair, Nomination Committee director, taking into consideration the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of its 16 March 2016 existing Board members, the diversity of the Board, the independence of continuing Board members, together with the ongoing requirements and strategic development of the Group.
The search process can then focus on appointing a candidate with a balance of skills that will enhance the Board.
The Committee will utilise the services of an executive search firm to identify appropriate candidates, ensuring that the search firm appointed does not have any other connection with the Group.
In addition, the Committee will only use those firms that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
A longlist of potential appointees will then be reviewed, followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview, based upon the objective criteria identified at inception.
Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees will have sufficient time to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
The Committee will then recommend a preferred candidate and the Directors not on the Committee will meet the candidate.
Following these meetings, and assuming acceptance, the Committee will make a formal recommendation to the Board on the appointment.
Wherever possible, the Nomination Committee will arrange for all Directors to meet the preferred candidate.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 75
