STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Corporate governance The UK Code also recommends that the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group complies with this Chairman of the Board of Directors should The Group complies with the UK Corporate recommendation of the UK Code, meet the independence criteria set out Governance Code issued in September 2014 notwithstanding that the following in the UK Code on appointment.
the UK Code, except as noted.
Non-Executive Directors are not independent in the Companys opinion: Garry Watts was not independent on COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CODE IN 2015 appointment, having served as Executive Simon Rowlands continues to hold a The Group has complied with the Chairman of Spire Healthcare prior senior position with the Companys principles and code provisions of the to Admission.
former principal shareholder, Cinven: and UK Code, throughout the year except as described below.
Danie Meintjes has been nominated CONFLICTS OF INTEREST to act as a Non-Executive Director by Independence is determined by ensuring Save as set out in the table below, there Mediclinic International, the principal that, apart from receiving their fees for are no actual or potential conflicts of interest shareholder, whose subsidiary, Remgro acting as Directors or owning shares, between any duties owed by the Directors Jersey Limited, entered into a relationship Non-Executive Directors do not have any or senior management to the Company agreement with the Company in June 2015 other material relationship or additional and their private interests or other duties.
Under the remuneration from, or transactions with, the The Board will continue to monitor and terms of the Relationship Agreement, Group, its promoters, its management or its review potential conflicts of interest on when Mediclinic International controls subsidiaries, which in the judgement of the a regular basis.
15% or more of the votes, it will be entitled Board may affect, or could appear to affect, to appoint one Non-Executive Director Director Conflict their independence of judgement.
It controls 29.9% of votes as Danie Meintjes Chief executive officer of The UK Code recommends that at least at 16 March 2016.
The Directors believe Mediclinic International PLC, half the board of directors of a UK-listed that the terms of the Relationship which controls 29.9% of the company, excluding the chairman, Agreement will enable the Group to voting rights in the Company should comprise non-executive directors carry on its business independently of as at 16 March 2016. determined by the board to be independent Mediclinic International.
in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances that may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN 2015 Garry Watts Rob Roger John Gildersleeve Daniel Toner Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior General Counsel and Group Independent Director Company Secretary The Group Company Secretary The Non-Executive Chairman The Chief Executive Officer The Board nominates one of supports the Chairman on Board leads the Board and is manages the Group and is the independent Non-Executive corporate governance matters.
responsible for: responsible for: Directors to act as Senior He is responsible for: Independent Director.
He is the leadership and overall developing the Groups responsible for: planning the annual cycle effectiveness of the Board: strategic direction for of Board and committee a clear structure for the consideration and approval being an alternative contact meetings and setting the operation of the Board and its by the Board: for shareholders at Board level meeting agendas: committees: day-to-day management other than the Chairman: making appropriate setting the Board agenda in of the Groups operations: acting as a sounding board for information available to the conjunction with the Group the application of the Groups the Chairman: Board in a timely manner: Company Secretary and Chief policies: if required, being an ensuring an appropriate level Executive Officer: and the implementation of the intermediary for Nonof communication between ensuring that the Board agreed strategy: and Executive Directors concerns: the Board and its committees: receives accurate, relevant and being accountable to, and undertaking the annual ensuring an appropriate level timely information about the reporting to, the Board on the Chairmans performance of communication between Groups affairs.
evaluation: and when required, leading the senior management and the recruitment process for a Non-Executive Directors: new Chairman.
keeping the Board apprised of developments in relevant legislative, regulatory and governance matters: and facilitating a new directors induction and assisting with professional development, as required.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 63 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE As members of the Nomination Committee, The Board will maintain its focus on the Ultimate responsibility for the management the Non-Executive Directors also play a Groups pursuit of its 2016 targets and also of the Group rests with the Board of pivotal role in Board succession planning and review succession planning during the year.
the appointment of new Executive Directors.
Its activities will include: The Board focuses primarily upon strategic appointment of a new Chief Executive YOUR BOARD IN 2015 and policy issues and is responsible for: Officer: During the year, the Board met on nine scheduled occasions.
leadership of the Group: review and approve the 2015 Annual Report: The agenda at scheduled meetings in 2015 implementing and monitoring effective covered standing agenda items, including: controls to assess and manage risk: review the proposed final dividend for a review of the Groups performance by the 2015: supporting the senior leadership team to Chief Executive Officer, the current months formulate and execute the Groups approve the 2016 Annual Operating Plan: and year to date financial statistics by the strategy: Chief Financial Officer and a review of clinical consider specific major themes: performance.
In addition, the Board received monitoring the performance of the Group: review the risk management framework: a verbal report from committee chairs, and and where their committee met immediately in setting the Groups values and standards.
advance of the scheduled Board meeting, follow a rolling agenda, ensuring proper and the Board regularly received reports on There is a specific schedule of matters time for strategic debate.
Furthermore, the Board will continue to Also in 2015, the Board focused on major consider clinical safety matters and maintain THE NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AND elements of the Groups operations by: overall responsibility for the Groups system THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER of internal control and risk management The division of responsibilities between reviewing, and approving, the Groups processes via the relevant Board committees.
the Non-Executive Chairman and the three-year Strategic Plan: Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing considering a preliminary draft 2016 SHARE SCHEMES COMMITTEE and was reviewed and approved by the Annual Operating Plan: and In addition, the Board delegates Board during the Admission process.
This certain responsibilities in relation to the was in effect throughout all of 2015. receiving, reviewing and approving major administration of the Companys share capital expenditure proposals.
schemes on an ad hoc basis to the Share THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board has a formal schedule of matters Schemes Committee.
This committee The Non-Executive Directors bring a reserved to it and delegates certain matters operates in accordance with the delegation wide range of skills and experience to the to committees, as outlined elsewhere.
of authority agreed by the Board.
The independent Non-Executive Specific matters reserved for the Board Directors represent a strong, independent EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE considered during the year to 31 December element on the Board and are well placed During the year, the Chief Executive 2015 included reviewing the Groups to constructively challenge and support Officer reviewed the structure of the senior performance monthly and year to date, management.
They help to shape the leadership governance structure.
The approving capital expenditure, setting Groups strategy, scrutinise the performance previous Executive Management Team and approving the Groups strategy and of management in meeting the Groups was replaced with an Executive Committee annual budget, and a review of the draft objectives and monitor the reporting which is supported by two newly formed dividend policy.
bodies: an Operating Board: and a Safety, Their role is also to satisfy themselves THE BOARDS PLAN FOR 2016 Quality and Risk Committee.
with regard to the integrity of the Groups It is planned that the Board will convene on financial information and to ensure eight formal scheduled occasions during that the Groups internal controls and 2016, as well as holding any necessary ad hoc risk management systems are robust Board and committee meetings to consider and defensible.
The independent Non-Executive The Deputy Chairman and the other Directors oversee the adequacy of the risk Non-Executive Directors are scheduled to management and internal control systems meet on their own without the Executive from their membership of the Audit and Risk Directors present.
In addition, the NonCommittee and Clinical Governance and Executive Directors will also meet without Safety Committee CGSC, as well as the the Chairman present to discuss matters remuneration for the Executive Directors such as the Chairmans performance.
from their membership of the Remuneration Committee.
64 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance framework in 2015 Garry Watts Non-Executive Chairman Key objectives: ensure effectiveness of the Board: promote high standards of corporate governance: ensure clear structure for the operation of the Board and its committees: and encourage open communication between all directors.
The Board of Spire Healthcare Group plc The Board comprises nine Directors the Non-Executive Chairman, Garry Watts: the Chief Executive Officer, Rob Roger: the Chief Financial Officer, Simon Gordon: and six NonExecutive Directors, four of whom are deemed to be independent for the purposes of the UK Code.
Daniel Toner serves the Board as General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Key objectives: leads the Group: oversees the Groups system of risk management and internal controls: supports the Executive Committee to formulate and execute the Groups strategy: monitors the performance of the Group: and sets the Groups values and standards.
Audit and Risk Committee Clinical Governance Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee and Safety Committee Robert Lerwill chair, Tony Bourne, Dame Janet Husband chair, Tony John Gildersleeve chair Dame Janet Tony Bourne chair, John Dame Janet Husband Bourne, Garry Watts, Rob Roger Husband, Robert Lerwill, Rob Roger Gildersleeve, Robert Lerwill Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: monitors the integrity of financial promotes, on behalf of the Board, advises the Board on determines the appropriate reporting: and a culture of high-quality and safe appointments, retirements and remuneration packages for the assists the Board in its review of patient care: resignations from the Board and Chairman, Executive Directors and the effectiveness of the Groups monitors specific non-financial its committees: and Group Company Secretary: and internal control and risk risks and their associated reviews succession planning for recommends and monitors the management systems.
processes, policies and controls: the Board.
level and structure for other senior i clinical and regulatory risks: management remuneration.
ii health and safety: and iii facilities and plant.
Executive Committee The Group also operates an Executive Committee convened and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
The team generally meets weekly as operational activities allow and its members are shown on pages 58, 60 and 61.
Key objectives: assists the Chief Executive Officer in discharging his responsibilities: ensures a direct line of authority from any member of staff to the Chief Executive Officer: and assists in making executive decisions affecting the Company.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 65 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued significant commitments were disclosed to BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Committee composition is set out in the the Board at the time of their appointment The attendance of the Directors who served relevant committee reports.
No one other and they are required to notify the Board during the year ended 31 December 2015, than committee chairs and members of of any subsequent changes.
The Group at meetings of the Board, is shown in the the committees is entitled to participate has reviewed the availability of the Nontable below.
The number of scheduled in meetings of the Audit and Risk, Executive Directors and considers that each meetings a Director could attend in the Nomination, Remuneration, and Clinical of them is able to, and in practice does, year is shown in brackets.
Governance and Safety Committees, unless devote the necessary amount of time to by invitation of the committee chair.
Chairman Gildersleeve is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Garry Watts 9 9 Induction and training Generally, reference materials are provided, Biographical details of the Directors are set Deputy Chairman including information about the Board, out on pages 58 to 59.
John Gildersleeve 9 9 its committees, directors duties, procedures Independence for dealing in the Groups shares and other Executive Directors The Board considers that half of the Board regulatory and governance matters, and Rob Roger 9 9 is independent of management and free Directors are advised of their legal and from any business or other relationship Simon Gordon 9 9 other duties, and obligations as directors that could affect the exercise of their of a listed company.
Tony Bourne 9 9 On appointment, Danie Meintjes completed As the Chairman acts in an executive a detailed induction programme that Robert Lerwill 8 9 capacity he is not considered to be included meeting with other Board members independent.
He also did not satisfy the Dame Janet Husband 9 9 and senior executives, a familarisation of the independence criteria on his appointment 1 Danie Meintjes 4 4 business and a hospital visit.
Both Simon Rowlands and Simon Rowlands 9 9 Danie Meintjes are also not considered The Group Company Secretary ensures that to be independent.
any additional request for information is 1 Danie Meintjes was appointed a Non-Executive Director promptly supplied.
The Chairman, through on 20 August 2015.
Appointments to the Board the Group Company Secretary, ensures that To the extent that Directors are unable to Recommendations for appointments there is an ongoing process to review any attend scheduled meetings, or additional to the Board are made by the Nomination internal or external training and meetings called on short notice, they will Committee.
The Nomination Committee development needs.
receive the papers in advance and relay follows a formal, rigorous and transparent their comments to the Chairman for procedure for the appointment of new In November, all Directors received a communication at the meeting.
The Directors to the Board.
Further information refresher training session, delivered by Chairman will follow up after the meeting is set out in the Nomination Committee the Companys legal advisers on their in relation to both the discussions held and Report on pages 74 to 75. statutory duties.
Time commitment of the Non-Executive As already noted, in the event of a general Directors training need, in-house training will be EFFECTIVENESS The Non-Executive Directors each have a provided to the entire Board.
Necessary and Board composition letter of appointment, which sets out the relevant regulatory updates are provided The Board seeks to ensure that both it and terms and conditions of their directorship.
as a standing item at each Board meeting its committees have the appropriate range An indication of the anticipated time in the Group Company Secretarys report of skills, experience, independence and commitment is provided in any recruitment and Board briefing by external advisers, knowledge of the Group to enable them role specification, and each Directors letter where appropriate.
to discharge their respective duties and of appointment provides details of the responsibilities effectively: for example, the Information and support meetings that they are expected to attend.
2016 Board calendar includes both Board The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely development training sessions on statutory Non-Executive Directors are required to set manner, information of an appropriate duties and hospital visits.
aside sufficient time to prepare for meetings, quality to enable it to adequately discharge and to regularly refresh and update their its responsibilities.
This is aided by the use of The number of Non-Executive Directors skills and knowledge.
In signing their an online portal.
Papers are provided to the and their range of skills and experience were letters of appointment, all Directors have Directors in advance of the relevant Board or carefully reviewed and agreed as part of consequently agreed to commit sufficient committee meeting to enable them to make the Admission process.
The continuing time for the proper performance of their further enquiries about any matters prior to requirements and the number of Directors, responsibilities, acknowledging that this will the meeting, should they so wish.
This also together with the Groups succession plans, vary from year to year, depending on the allows Directors who are unable to attend to will form part of the Nomination Committee Groups activities.
submit views in advance of the meeting.
activities and the Boards evaluation process in 2016.
The Board considers its size and Directors are expected to attend all Board Outside the Board papers process, the composition to be appropriate for the and committee meetings, and any additional Chief Executive Officer provides written current requirements of the business.
Each Directors other updates to Non-Executive Directors on important business issues, including financial 66 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION that the system it has in place for reporting of both financial and non-financial risks and commercial information.
In addition, Situational Conflicts continues to operate is satisfactory.
relevant updates on shareholder matters effectively.
including analysts reports are also provided In addition, the committees, jointly, seek to the Board.
to ensure, as far as practicable, there are ACCOUNTABILITY no elements omitted or unnecessarily All Directors have access to the advice and The Audit and Risk Committee duplicated and that all critical judgements services of the Group Company Secretary.
The Audit and Risk Committees report is receive the correct level of challenge.
There is also an agreed procedure in place set out on pages 68 to 71 and identifies its for Directors, in the furtherance of their members, whose details are set out on RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS duties, to take independent legal advice, pages 58 and 59.
The Board is committed to communicating if necessary, at the Groups expense.
The report describes the Audit and Risk with shareholders and stakeholders in Election of Directors Committees work in discharging its a clear and open manner, and seeks to All the Directors offered themselves for responsibilities during the year ended ensure effective engagement through election at the first annual general meeting 31 December 2015, and its terms of the Groups regular communications, in May 2015 and, in future, will be re-elected reference can be found on the Groups the annual general meeting and other in accordance with the requirements of the website at www.
The biographical details of each Risk management and internal control The Group undertakes an ongoing of the Directors are set out on pages 58 to The Board has overall responsibility for programme of meetings with investors, 59 and in the 2016 Notice of Meeting.
The establishing and maintaining a sound system which is managed by the Chief Executive Board believes that each of the Directors of risk management and internal control, and Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The standing for election is effective and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is majority of meetings with investors are demonstrates commitment to their designed to manage, rather than eliminate, led by them.
Accordingly, the Board the risks facing the Group and safeguard its recommends that shareholders approve During the year, there were in excess assets.
No system of internal control can the resolutions to be proposed at the 2016 of 250 individual meetings, conference provide absolute assurance against material annual general meeting relating to the presentations, group lunches and telephone misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is election of the Directors.
briefings with investors, attended in designed to provide the directors with all cases by the Investor Relations Director Directors indemnities reasonable assurance that issues are accompanied in the majority of cases by The Directors of the Company have identified on a timely basis and are dealt one or both of the Executive Directors.
the benefit of a third-party indemnity with appropriately.
provision, as defined by section 236 of the The Executive Chairman, Senior Independent The Audit and Risk Committee and the Companies Act 2006, in the Groups Articles Director and committee chairs remain Clinical Governance and Safety Committee, of Association.
In addition, Directors and available for discussion with shareholders whose reports are set out on pages 68 to 71 officers of the Group are covered by on matters under their areas of responsibility, and pages 72 to 73, respectively, assist the directors and officers liability insurance.
either through contacting the Group Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Company Secretary or directly at the annual Directors conflicts of interest Groups risk management system and general meeting.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that internal controls, including financial, clinical, directors must avoid a situation where they operational and compliance controls.
The Company reports its financial results have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest to shareholders twice a year, with the Executive compensation and risk that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with publication of its annual and half yearly Only independent Non-Executive Directors the Companys interests.
Directors of public financial reports.
companies may authorise conflicts and are allowed to serve on both the Audit and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if Risk, and Remuneration Committees.
The It also currently issues further trading a companys articles of association permit.
Non-Executive Directors are therefore able updates each year with the publication to bring their experience and knowledge of of an Interim Management Statement.
In The Board has established formal procedures the activities of each committee to bear conjunction with these announcements, to authorise situations where a Director has when considering the critical judgements presentations or teleconference calls are held an interest that conflicts, or may possibly of the other.
with institutional investors and analysts, and conflict, with the interests of the Company copies of any presentation materials issued Situational Conflicts.
Directors declare This means that the Directors are in a are made available through the Companys Situational Conflicts, so that they can position to consider carefully the impact website at www.
be considered for authorisation by the of incentive arrangements on the Groups non-conflicted directors.
risk profile and to ensure the Groups All Directors are expected to attend the remuneration policy and programme Companys annual general meeting, In considering a Situational Conflict, these are structured, so as to accord with the providing shareholders with the opportunity Directors act in the way they consider would long-term objectives and risk appetite to question them about issues relating to be most likely to promote the success of the of the Group.
the Group, either during the meeting, or Group, and may impose limits, or conditions, informally afterwards.
when giving authorisation or, subsequently, Financial and non-financial risk if they think this is appropriate.
The Clinical Governance and Safety Committee, in conjunction with the Audit The Group Company Secretary records and Risk Committee, between them aim the consideration of any conflict and any to ensure that the control and monitoring authorisations granted.
The Board believes Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 67
