Directors Report Board of Directors Lord Smith of Kelvin Richard Gillingwater CBE Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Chief Executive Finance Director Independent Director Nationality UK UK UK UK Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since June Non-Executive Director since May Appointed an Executive Director in Appointed Finance Director in 2003.
Senior Independent Director January 2002 and appointed Chief October 2002. since July 2012.
Deputy Chairman executive in July 2013. since January 2015.
Committee Membership Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Remuneration Member of the Nomination Member of the Nomination Committee.
Background Lord Smith has held a number of Richard was, most recently, Dean of Alistair has over 18 years service with Gregor has over 24 years service with senior positions in a range of financial Cass Business School, London.
Prior the Group, having joined Southern the Group, having joined Scottish services organisations, including to this he spent 10 years at Kleinwort Electric plc in 1997.
Prior to that he Hydro-Electric plc in 1990.
He is a Morgan Grenfell Private Equity, Benson, before moving to BZW, in worked for HSBC and National chartered accountant.
Morgan Grenfell Asset Management due course, becoming joint Head Westminster Bank in corporate Gregor has SSE Board-level and Deutsche Asset Management.
of Corporate Finance and, latterly, finance and business development responsibility for Finance, Investor Chairman of European Investment roles in London and New York.
He is a chartered accountant and Relations, Risk, Audit and Insurance, Banking at Credit Suisse First Boston.
a past president of the Institute of He has extensive experience in the Procurement and Logistics, IT, and Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
He has previously served as Chief energy sector and in growing Corporate Business Services.
Executive then Chairman of the businesses in the Wholesale, Retail He was Chairman of the trustees of He is the sponsoring Board Shareholder Executive.
He has been and Enterprise and other commercial the National Museums of Scotland member for SSEs businesses in the Chairman of CDC Group and areas of SSE.
In addition he has led and Glasgow 2014 Limited, the Ireland, Chairman of the Scottish and a non-Executive director of P&O, many of the Groups most significant organising committee for the Southern Energy Power Distribution Debenhams, Tomkins, Qinetiq transactions since the merger in 1998 Commonwealth Games.
Board and Chairman of 50%-owned Group and Kidde.
He led the Smith Commission As Chief Executive he is responsible for in 2014. delivering the strategy of the Group and leading on safety: operational performance: and development of the people and culture agendas in SSE.
He is a chartered accountant and former Chairman of the Energy Retail Association.
Key appointments Chairman of: UK Green Investment Chairman of Henderson Group plc.
Director of Energy UK and Non-Executive Director Bank plc, IMI plc and Forth Ports Senior Independent Director of member of the Accenture Global of Stagecoach Group plc.
He has resigned as Energy Board.
Senior Independent Director of Chancellor of the University of Hiscox Ltd with effect from 20 May Strathclyde.
2015 and as a non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc with effect from 4 June 2015, in order to ensure that he has the appropriate capacity to Chair SSE.
Pro-Chancellor of the Open University.
Jeremy Beeton CB Katie Bickerstaffe Dame Susan Bruce DBE Peter Lynas Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality UK UK UK UK Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director from July 2011.
Committee Membership Chairman of the Safety, Health and Member of the Nomination and Member of the Audit, Nomination Chairman of the Audit Committee.
and Safety, Health and Environment Member of the Nomination Member of the Remuneration and Advisory Committees.
Background Jeremy was the Director General From 2008 to 2012, Katie served as Sue has had an extensive career Peter joined GEC-Marconi in 1985 of the UK Government Olympic Director of Marketing, People and in local government and has as a Financial Accountant at the Executive, the lead government Property Dixons.
held a number of senior positions manufacturing operation in body for coordinating the 2012 including Chief Executive at East Portsmouth and in 1998 was Previously she was Managing London Olympics.
Dunbartonshire Council and appointed Finance Director of Director of Kwik Save Ltd and Aberdeen City Council before taking Marconi Electronic Systems prior Previously Jeremy was Principal Group Retail Director and Group up the role of Chief Executive at the to the completion of the British Vice President of Bechtel Ltd, HR Director at Somerfield plc.
Sue has Aerospace Marconi merger.
where he had responsibility for Her earlier career included roles given notice of her retirement from the management and delivery He was a Board director of Marconis at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo Inc and local government and she will leave of Bechtels civil engineering European joint venture companies, Unilever PLC.
by October 2015 in her 40th year projects in infrastructure and Alenia Marconi Systems and Matra of service.
Marconi Space, and has been a Sue has an M. Phil.
Politics Chairman of the trustee board Jeremy is a civil engineer.
Government: LLB, Scots Law: D. of a major pension scheme.
Univ Hon and is a Fellow of Peter is a Fellow of the Chartered the RSA.
Key appointments Member of the Court of Strathclyde Chief Executive, UK and Ireland Chief Executive, The City of Group Finance Director of BAE University.
Edinburgh Council: non-Executive Systems plc and a member of the Director of The Scottish Council for BAE Systems Inc Board in the US.
Sits on the Advisory Board of PwC, Development and Industry: Chair of the Supervisory Board of Imtech Young Scot: Visiting Professor, The and is Chairman of Merseylink Ltd. International Institute of Public Policy, Non-Executive Director of A Proctor University of Strathclyde.
Group Ltd and non-Executive Director of John Laing Group plc.
75 Directors Report How the Board works continued The Board committees committees are set by the Board, reviewed Division of responsibilities There are four standing committees of the regularly and are available in full on the SSE The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Board to which certain responsibilities are website.
Membership is determined by the Board are separate and clearly defined, and the roles delegated, as outlined in SSEs corporate on the recommendation of the Nomination were reviewed during 2014.
An overview of governance structure on page 73.
Delegation Committee and in consultation with the relevant the governance roles and responsibilities of matters to specific committees of the Board Committee Chairman.
At meetings of the full of the Board members and Company ensures that all areas receive necessary focus, Board, the Committee Chairman is responsible Secretary throughout the reporting followed by recommendation to the Board as for communicating key matters requiring year are outlined below.
The terms of reference of these Board attention.
Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Directors Lord Smith of Kelvin Independent Director Jeremy Beeton, Katie Bickerstaffe, Richard Gillingwater Sue Bruce and Peter Lynas The role of Chairman involves: The Deputy Chairman deputises for the The role of the non-Executive Directors Chairman and provides support to his involves: - leadership, operation and governance role where required and the role of Senior of the Board: - scrutinising, measuring and reviewing the Independent Director involves: - setting the agenda for Board meetings performance of management: ensuring that they operate effectively, - constructively challenging and assisting in - providing a sounding board for the Chairman: providing appropriate opportunity for the development of strategy proposed by - serving as an intermediary to other Directors challenge and debate to support sound the Executive Committee: when necessary: decision making: - reviewing the Group financial information, - being available to shareholders if they have - ensuring constructive relations exist between ensuring systems of internal control and risk any concerns which are unable to be resolved the Executive and non-Executive Directors: management are appropriate and effective: through the normal channels of Chairman, - identifying individual Director training needs - reviewing the succession planning for the Chief Executive or Finance Director or if and overseeing the performance evaluation: Board: and contact through these channels is deemed - meeting with shareholders, analysts and other - serving on various Committees of the Board.
inappropriate: and representatives of institutional investors: - attending meetings with investors and - participating in both the interim and annual participating in management visits and results presentations and the AGM: and specifically in 2014 15 he provided guidance - meeting with managers and employees at to the CMA project team.
various locations throughout the Group.
Roles and responsibilities Chief Executive Finance Director Company Secretary Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Sally Fairbairn The Chief Executive is responsible for: The Finance Director is responsible for: The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for: - leading the management team in the day-to- - deputising for the CEO: day running and operations of the Group: - leading the finance management teams: - compliance with Board procedures: - delivering strategy as agreed by the Board: - leading and supporting the functions - advising and keeping the Board up to date - representing the Company to external of: Procurement and Logistics: Risk, on all corporate governance developments: stakeholders, shareholders, customers, Audit and Insurance: Investor Relations and - facilitating the Directors induction programme suppliers, regulatory and government Company Secretarial: Corporate Business and assisting with professional development: authorities and the community: and Services: and IT: and - considering Board effectiveness in conjunction - leading the Executive Committee and - representing the Company externally: with the Chairman: its sub-Committees which oversee the including to investors, in relation to - communicating results of the Board and operational and financial performance financial and other business matters.
Committee evaluations: and of, and issues facing, the Company.
- providing advice, services and support to all Directors as and when required.
The Directors The non-Executive Directors are chosen for Board attendance Attended their diversity of skills and experience and are Members On the Board since Position scheduled appointed for a fixed term of three years subject Lord Smith of Kelvin 2003 Chairman 6 6 to annual re-election by shareholders.
This term may be renewed by mutual agreement.
The nonGregor Alexander 2002 Executive Director 6 6 Executive Directors appointment letters are Jeremy Beeton 2011 Independent NED 6 6 available on the SSE website.
The Board appoints one of the non-Executive Directors to be the Katie Bickerstaffe 2011 Independent NED 6 6 Senior Independent Director SID, who in 1 Sue Bruce 2013 Independent NED 4 6 addition to the responsibilities of non-Executive Richard Gillingwater 2007 Deputy Chairman and SID 6 6 Director has specific roles as outlined in the 2 diagram opposite.
Peter Lynas 2014 Independent NED 4 5 Alistair Phillips-Davies 2002 Executive Director 6 6 The Executive Directors have specific executive 3 responsibilities, and as Board members their Lady Rice 2003 Independent NED 2 2 duties also extend to the whole of the Groups 4 Thomas Thune Andersen 2009 Independent NED 1 2 operations and activities.
1 Sue Bruce was unable to attend two Board meetings during the year.
One due to her roles as Counting Officer for Edinburgh Constituencies and Depute Counting Officer for Scotland for the Referendum.
These roles were clarified The Chairman and non-Executive Directors met prior to her appointment as non-Executive Director and the Board understood that any meetings conflicting with this twice during the year without the Executive role would result in non attendance.
The second meeting was not attended due to unforeseen health circumstances.
2 Peter Lynas joined the Board on 1 July 2014.
Peter Lynas was unable to attend one Board meeting during the year due to a pre-determined commitment through his executive role with BAE Systems.
This was disclosed and acknowledged by the Board prior to appointment.
Board meetings and activity 3 Lady Rice retired from the Board on 17 July 2014.
4 Thomas Thune Andersen retired from the Board on 17 July 2014 and was unable to attend one meeting during the year The Board has six scheduled Board meetings which was approved by the Board.
each year, with an update conference call in the alternate months between the scheduled meetings.
These calls are used to update the Board on business performance, to brief the Board on any current issues, and may include Board activity matters for decision or approval.
Areas of focus Examples of matters considered and or approved by the Board Strategy - Disposals to deliver business simplification Board meeting attendance for 2014 15, is set out in the table opposite.
In the event of non - Acquisitions to deliver business growth attendance due to unforeseen circumstances - Price freeze or prior commitments which could not be - Focused strategy session rearranged, the Director will provide comments - Political, policy and economic landscape and feedback to the Chairman, Committee - RIIO ED1 Price Control Chairman or Company Secretary who ensures Leadership - Recommendations on Chairman succession that the comments received are raised at - Deputy Chairman and Chairman appointment the meeting.
Details of attendance at Board - Progress on appointment of a new non-Executive Director Committee meetings are set out in the - Senior management succession respective reports that follow.
- Diversity planning Finance - Annual and half year results The Board agendas follow a forward plan - Annual budget but are flexible to ensure that the matters to be - Significant financial judgements considered are discussed at the correct time - Funding strategy and Going Concern within the year.
Signature practices at every - Fair, balanced and understandable statement Board meeting include, reports from: the CEO: the Finance Director: and from the business Engagement - Significant Stock Exchange announcements with regards to compliance and related - Consideration of AGM business for shareholder approval developments.
Examples of the areas of focus - Annual Report for the reporting year are outlined opposite.
- Feedback of meetings with analysts, investors and stakeholders Other related developments which received Governance - Board evaluation particular attention from the Board included - Corporate governance developments the focus on treating customers fairly in Energy - Conflicts of interest Supply, in line with Standards of Conduct - Committee membership introduced by Ofgem in 2013.
In March 2015, - Terms of Reference the Board reviewed progress with regard to treating customers fairly and, amongst other Risk - Risk policy and process things, agreed that the Deputy Chairman should - Safety meet SSEs TCF Treating Customers Fairly - Risk acceptability and risk appetite Customer Forums to gauge first hand customers - Principal risks and mitigations perspectives on SSEs approach to treating - IT Cyber Security customers fairly.
77 Directors Report How the Board works continued The Executive Committee Company Secretary Jim McPhillimy Will Morris Colin Nicol Martin Pibworth Sally Fairbairn Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Company Secretary and Enterprise Retail Distribution Wholesale Director of Investor Relations Jim McPhillimy joined SSE Will Morris joined SSE in Colin Nicol joined SSE in Martin Pibworth joined Sally Fairbairn joined SSE in 1995 and is responsible 2012 and is responsible for 2010 and is responsible for SSE in 1998 and is in 1997.
Sally and her team for safety, SSE Contracting, the customer facing Retail SSEs electricity distribution responsible for Energy provide company secretarial Lighting Services, Utility business in Energy Supply networks.
Colin represents Portfolio Management, support and services to the Solutions, Telecoms, Water and Energy-related Services.
the Networks business at Generation Operations Group and are the contact and business relationship the Executive Committee.
and Development, Gas point for the investment management.
Strategy session Effectiveness - briefings on strategy, finance, internal audit Throughout the year the Board and Executive The composition of the Board and investor relations from the Chief Committee carried out an iterative strategy The Board currently comprises: the Chairman: Executive and Finance Director: review process, part of which included a the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent - overview of the key business areas from dedicated strategy session held in September Director: two Executive Directors: and four Managing Directors including site visits 2014.
The Board reviewed and developed independent non-Executive Directors.
SSE is to Energy Portfolio Management, Retail strategy for the business areas of Networks, committed to making well-informed, high-quality Customer Service and the Emergency Wholesale, Retail and Enterprise, with each decisions in line with best practice in corporate Control Room: Managing Director presenting an overview of governance, and as such the composition of the - a regulatory update on the CMA project: the key strategic elements and related risks Board and its Committees is regularly reviewed - meeting with the Company Secretary to within the specific divisions.
The Board reviewed to ensure that the balance and mix of skills, review the Groups governance and policies: and challenged the strategy presented by independence, knowledge and experience allows - specific Audit Committee training in each business division and assessed the this to be achieved.
Details of changes in Board conjunction with the Finance Director and overall alignment to the Groups core purpose, membership are outlined in the Nomination Committee Secretary, involving business and strategy and financial objective to deliver to Committee Report on pages 82 and 83. group structure updates and meetings with shareholders annual dividend growth equal the External Auditor: and to at least RPI inflation.
SSEs Board level diversity and its policy on - details of the principal risks and operational diversity and Board balance are also disclosed issues from the Director of Risk, Audit The Executive Committee in the report of the Nomination Committee.
The Executive Committee was established in February 2014, and is responsible for Independence Directors are expected to develop and refresh implementing policy and strategy as agreed by the The Nomination Committee Report explains the their knowledge and skills on an on-going basis Board and for the operational management of all process carried out during the year to verify the with developmental needs being reviewed as of SSEs businesses.
The Executive Committee is continuing independence of the non-Executive part of the annual Board evaluation process.
supported by seven sub-Committees, the roles of Directors.
The Board considers that the Chairman The necessary resources are made available which are described on page 73.
The membership was independent on appointment and all should any Director wish additional training.
of the Executive Committee comprises: the two non-Executive Directors are independent in Executive Directors: and the Managing Directors line with the criteria as set out in the Code.
The The Company operates performance coaching of Distribution, Enterprise, Retail and Wholesale continuing independent and objective judgement for the Executive Directors and for other members all of whom are persons discharging managerial of the non-Executive Directors was confirmed as of senior management, which is designed to responsibilities.
In addition, the Managing Director, part of the annual Board evaluation process which develop and enhance individual and company Corporate Affairs, is invited to attend meetings is outlined in more detail on page 79. performance.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Executive Committee.
Director induction, training Information and briefings In a commitment to monitor and improve and development Keeping up to date with key business performance, a rigorous evaluation of the On joining the Board, non-Executive Directors developments is essential for Directors to maintain Executive Committee was carried out in receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their and enhance their effectiveness.
The output confirmed that the individual requirements.
Peter Lynas completed a specialist briefings and matters considered by Executive Committee worked effectively as a team two day programme on appointment, which was the Board can be found on page 77 within Board and identified potential areas for development to facilitated by both the Chairman and Company activity.
The Board also receives regular updates ensure its effectiveness is maintained.
Secretary and comprised: on the progress and performance of investments 78 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Directors Report 3. including a detailed key performance indicator the other members of the Board, if the Board evaluation occurs every three years as report from senior management.
This procedure was not used recommended by the Code, with the last during the year.
external evaluation being conducted during Site visits were arranged for the individual 2012.
In 2014 an internally facilitated Board non-Executive Directors during the year to gain Evaluation of the Board, and Committee evaluation was carried out.
an additional understanding of SSEs business.
Committees and Directors The outcome of the evaluation process was During 2014 15 these included site visits to Sloy The Board, its Committees and the individual considered at the Board meeting held in January and Ferrybridge power stations, customer service Directors participate in an annual evaluation 2015, with subsequent recommendations made sites, Energy Portfolio Management as well as of performance.
attendance at SSEs annual safety conference.
The Board evaluation is an objective, formal Each Director confirmed the Board to be Independent professional advice and rigorous process and includes a feedback effective and confirmed their agreement with There is an agreed procedure for Directors mechanism, ensuring that leadership of the the objectives ahead of an externally facilitated to take independent professional advice if Company remains effective.
The evaluation review in 2015 16. necessary, at the Companys expense.
The prior strives to assess not only the mix of skills, approval of the Chairman is required where the experience and knowledge in Board and Each Director also participated in detailed reviews cost of such advice is likely to exceed 10,000.
Committee composition but also diversity in of individual performance which were carried out Any advice obtained shall be made available to approach to key issues.
An externally facilitated by the Chairman.
The process for evaluating the Chairman was managed by Richard Gillingwater, the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, which involved a separate meeting with Board evaluation the non-Executive Directors and included feedback from the Executive Directors.
Questionnaire Compilation Objectives set Directors conflicts of interest compiled by Feedback to Review of results highlighting Company the Board and During the year a review of the Directors objectives measuring areas to be Secretary in discussion on interests and appointments was carried out set from against strengthened conjunction with the matters previous year performance and further by the Company Secretary and a report was Chairman and identified objectives developed provided to the Nomination Committee for issued to Board review and recommendation to the Board.
The Board then considered and authorised each Directors reported actual or potential conflicts of interest at their meeting in January 2015.
Each Objectives set for 2014 15 Progress achieved Objectives set for 2015 16 Director abstained from approval of their own Strategy: position.
The Board continues to monitor and Review the arrangements A dedicated strategy session The session should be review actual and potential conflicts of interest for discussing strategy and was held during the year with carried forward annually on a regular basis and Directors are responsible consider the depth of reviews management representation with regular updates for notifying the Company Secretary if they of external risk.
from each of the business areas.
continuing as an become aware of an actual or potential conflict agenda item.
situation or a change in circumstances relating to an existing authorisation.
Biographical details for Board meetings: all the Directors, including details of their external Consider time allocation of Agendas set in consideration Continue to monitor the directorships are set out on pages 74 and 75. specific agenda items and of the economic and political structure and content of business location of Board landscape throughout the year, agendas and continue to Accountability and Committee meetings.
with the use of different increase the variety of SSE Financial and Business Reporting Group sites as locations locations visited by the The Board recognises its responsibility for for meetings.
preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and Diversity and to present a fair, balanced and understandable succession planning: assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Monitor the diversity and Diversity including gender has Monitor succession plans This assessment also extends to interim results composition of the Board been monitored in succession for the Board and statements and other price sensitive public and senior management with plans and in recommendations undertake a search for announcements, reports to regulators and consideration to succession for Board appointments, and is a new non-Executive information to be presented by statutory planning.
a key element of the ongoing Director, receive regular requirements.
The Directors statement set out talent management updates on talent on page 111 recognises and confirms these programme.
responsibilities and further details of the Fair, Balanced and Understandable assurance Risk: framework used by the Directors can be found Review the risk management An extensive risk management Receive updates on the in the Audit Committee report on page 87. framework and system of review has taken place in effectiveness of the The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 71 sets out internal controls.
conjunction with Group Risk enhanced risk explanations of the basis on which the Company and the Board approved both management framework, generates or preserves value over the longer term the Risk Appetite Statement and reviewing the need for and the strategy for delivering its objectives.
As the Groups 10 Principal Risks.
such, the Annual Report is intended to provide the information necessary to enable an assessment of 79 Directors Report How the Board works continued the Companys performance, the business model Page 66 of the Strategic Report sets out the To support regular review of the risk management and its strategy.
The responsibilities of the External process by which the principal risks are managed.
framework the Board in particular: Auditor, KPMG, in relation to financial reporting - agrees and communicates policies and are set out in the Auditors report on pages 199 The high level structure of SSEs system of procedures for the management of risk and to 201. internal control is outlined in the diagram below.
operation of internal control systems: It comprises a number of elements with the SSE - reviews the principal risks facing the Group Risk Management and Internal Control Group businesses, including their Governance and key mitigating actions: The Group Risk Management and Internal Control and decision making structure, at the centre.
- determines the risk appetite of the Group: Framework is underpinned by the principle that - receives regular update reports on risk everyone in SSE has a responsibility for the The Board is responsible for ensuring that there management activities from senior management of risks.
To ensure the Groups is an effective risk management framework in management: and success, it is critical that the risks to the business place, including maintaining a sound system of - reviews the effectiveness of internal reporting.
are understood and effectively managed and that internal control.
These processes and systems decisions are taken with full consideration of are also applied in relation to the financial During the year, in addition to the activities the risks involved.
The Risk Management reporting process as described more fully in described above, the Board has overseen a Framework provides guidance to the Group to the Audit Committee report which is set out on number of developments within the Group support an increased awareness of their risks and pages 84 to 87.
It should be noted that whilst Risk Management Framework, including: to ensure that the accountability, ownership and there is a commitment to ensuring that these - a review of Group level risk management control of those risks are at an appropriate level.
systems remain robust and effective, they are policies and procedures, including the main It ensures that there is an ongoing process designed to manage rather than eliminate the process used for identifying the principal risks for identifying, evaluating and managing the risk of failure to achieve our objectives and facing the business see Strategic Report significant risks faced by the Company.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute pages 66 to 71 : and, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
- the development of a detailed risk appetite statement see Strategic Report pages 12 and 13.
Boards review of internal control The Board and Audit committee have reviewed SSEs system of internal control the effectiveness of the Companys risk Each of SSEs Group businesses has the responsibility to identify and manage the risks management and system of internal control which have the potential to threaten the achievement of their objectives, or compromise in line with the requirements of the Code, for the SSESET of core values as part of their day to day operations.
the period from 1 April 2014 to 19 May 2015 being the last practical day prior to printing The Group Businesses are supported in this activity by the Group Risk Management of this Annual Report and confirm that the Framework under direction from various parts of the Governance structure as outlined processes described above, which accord with on page 73. the Turnbull guidance, have been in place throughout that period.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
Further details of the process used in reaching this view Group can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 86 to 89.
Group Group Support Businesses Compliance Functions The risk and internal control procedures described in this report have not been extended to cover the Groups interests in joint ventures.
The Group has Board representation on its joint venture companies where separate systems of risk management and internal control have been Internal and adopted and in more significant undertakings, External Audit such as our 50% share in SGN, the Board receives An independent internal Various Group functions set regular updates on these.
Compliance team monitors policy and provide expert guidance compliance with all relevant to support Group businesses Going Concern regulatory and legal obligations.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements are The Internal Audit function provides an independent and objective opinion on the effectiveness of risk management and the system of internal control.
This is therefore prepared on a Going Concern basis.
achieved through a risk based audit programme which tests controls and identifies Further details of the Groups liquidity position areas where improvement is required.
and Going Concern review are provided in Note 32 to the financial statements.
The External Auditor complements the work of the Internal Audit Function and provides an audit opinion on whether the Annual Report and Accounts present a true and fair view, in addition to providing a view on their assessment of the system of internal control.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 The updated version of the Code was released 80 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Directors Report 3. in September 2014 and will apply to SSE for the year beginning 1 April 2015.
Work will be carried The AGM out in the coming year to reflect the changes in relation to financial reporting, risk management Annual General Meeting Overview and internal control.
17 July 2014 - Full Director attendance Perth Concert Hall, Perth - Lady Rice and Thomas Thune Andersen stepped down Relations with shareholders from the Board and major stakeholders - At least 95.26% of votes received for the re-election of Governance and Disclosure Committee all other Directors The Governance and Disclosure Committee is - Highest votes in favour: 99.98% to receive the report a sub-Committee of the Executive Committee.
and accounts The Committee manages governance - Lowest votes in favour: 83.80% to authorise allotment developments, advises on matters relating to of shares external affairs and assists in developing the investor relations strategy.
It is responsible for overseeing the Companys compliance with 23 July 2015 - Lord Smith of Kelvin final attendance as Chairman before regulatory and legal requirements including Perth Concert Hall, Perth stepping down those arising from SSEs listing on the London - 14 Ordinary and 4 Special Resolutions to be considered Stock Exchange surrounding the release by shareholders and control of announcements and other information of interest to shareholders and the investment community.
The Governance and Disclosure Committee comprises: the Chief Executive: the Finance Director: the Company Secretary and Director of Investor Relations: 2014.
The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman Meeting, which contains full explanations of the Managing Director, Corporate Affairs: the and Senior Independent Director will also attend the business to be conducted at the AGM, is set Managing Director, Corporate and Business the May 2015 presentation.
In preparation for his out in a separate shareholder circular.
Voting is Services: the Director of HR: the Director of new role, Richard Gillingwater offered meetings conducted by means of an electronic handset Risk, Audit and Insurance: the Director of Legal to the 10 largest shareholders and met with a and in the event of a significant vote against any Services: and the Deputy Company Secretary number of them to discuss their opinions on resolution, appropriate steps will be taken to is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee governance and the challenges facing SSE understand and address any underlying meets as required and had five meetings in over the next few years.
As Senior Independent shareholder concerns.
Director he is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the Details of the AGM 2014 and upcoming AGM Dialogue with shareholders normal channels has either failed to resolve or can be found in the table above.
The Company continues to maintain an effective is deemed inappropriate.
The Board believes Communications with other stakeholders that this is fundamental to ensuring that the Communications with investors The Directors have a programme of events to Companys strategy is understood and that SSEs website contains up-to-date information meet with a range of external stakeholders any questions or issues are dealt with in a for shareholders and other interested representing the public sector, investment constructive way.
It is also essential that the parties including share price information, community, environmental affairs, and views of shareholders are communicated to announcements and news releases, investor consumer interests.
The purpose of these all members of the Board in order that their and analyst presentations, information on events is to discuss the Companys position on expectations are recognised.
shareholder services and contact details.
The a range of business, policy and public interest Companys Annual Report and other shareholder issues and to learn more about stakeholders The Company maintains regular contact with circulars are also published on the SSE website.
views, hear their suggestions and address any institutional shareholders, fund managers and areas of concern.
analysts led by the Chief Executive and Finance Shareholders have a choice in how to receive Director.
This is primarily delivered through a their company communications such as the More generally, working with public policy programme of analyst calls and presentations: Annual Report.
The Company recognises the makers is a vital area for the Company, given the one to one shareholder meetings and small benefit of electronic communications and high profile of energy and environment related group meetings throughout the year.
The encourages shareholders to receive electronic issues in the United Kingdom and elsewhere Company Secretary and Director of Investor communication.
Currently 97% of shareholders and SSE does this in several ways including Relations has day-to-day responsibility for receive company communications such as the submission of consultation responses, meetings communications with institutional shareholders Annual Report and Notice of Annual General and dialogue with different government and and targets bi-annual meetings with the 30 Meeting from the SSE website.
non-government organisations, as well as active largest shareholders.
Analyst reports and participation in relevant trade associations shareholder feedback highlighting opinions Annual General Meeting and other bodies.
and issues are distributed to Managing Directors The AGM provides an opportunity for the and the Board.
This allows the Board and senior Board to meet with shareholders and present In all of its engagement with stakeholders, SSE management to form a view of the priorities an update on the performance and plans of seeks to adopt a straight forward and transparent and concerns of SSEs shareholders.
Shareholders are invited to ask approach, seeking outcomes that bring lasting questions at the AGM and to meet the Directors benefits to customers and support the fair The Chairman participated in the Companys and senior managers in order to communicate remuneration of investment in energy in the results presentations in May and November their views.
The Notice of Annual General UK and Ireland.
