Directors Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its - establish and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud prevention responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, internal control, arrangements.
risk management and the relationship with the External Auditor.
Composition Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board following recommendation by the Nomination Committee.
The current Members and meetings membership of the Audit Committee is set Independent non-Executive out in the table opposite.
The chairmanship Members Director Member since Attended scheduled and membership of the Audit Committee was 1 Peter Lynas Yes July 2014 2 2 refreshed when Thomas Thune Andersen stood Committee Chairman down from the Board on 17 July 2014.
Peter Lynas took over the position of Chairman from 2 Jeremy Beeton Yes November 2011 1 1 Richard Gillingwater, who continues to be a 3 Sue Bruce Yes July 2014 2 2 member of the Audit Committee.
In addition, Sue Bruce became a member of the Audit Richard Gillingwater Yes May 2007 3 3 Committee on 17 July 2014 and Jeremy Beeton 4 Thomas Thune Andersen Yes February 2009 1 1 ceased to be a member on the same date.
1 Peter Lynas joined the Board on 1 July 2014 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 17 July 2014.
The Board confirmed that each member of the 2 Jeremy Beeton ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 17 July 2014.
3 Sue Bruce became a member of the Audit Committee on 17 July 2014.
Audit Committee is independent and that the 4 Thomas Thune Anderson retired from the Board on 17 July 2014. membership meets the requirements of the Code.
Each member of the Audit Committee has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters Introduction Committee assists the Board and supports the see biographies on pages 74 and 75.
Peter I am pleased to present our report which delivery of SSEs strategy, values and governance.
Lynas is considered by the Board to have recent describes the role, composition and activities and relevant financial experience as the current of the Audit Committee during the year.
Group Finance Director of BAE Systems plc Peter Lynas and a Fellow of the Chartered Association of I became Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Certified Accounts.
The Board also considers in July 2014, and have worked closely with my that Richard Gillingwater has recent and relevant predecessor who has continued as a member financial experience as required by the Code.
of the Audit Committee in gaining a solid Role understanding of the business and the issues The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to: On joining the Audit Committee, new members it faces.
The ongoing plans to refresh the - review the integrity of the interim and annual receive an induction tailored to their individual membership of the Audit Committee are financial statements: requirements which covers an overview of the explained in this report, along with the - review the appropriateness of accounting business, its financial dynamics, principal risks and other changes which were also made to the policies and practices: their management, and a separate meeting with the composition of the Committee in July 2014.
- review the significant issues and judgements External Auditor.
Tailored induction programmes for considered in relation to the financial Peter Lynas and Sue Bruce were delivered during During the year the Audit Committee has focused statements including how they were the year.
Members of the Audit Committee receive upon five key areas.
First, it reviewed the Groups addressed: regular briefings from management on matters financial reporting and challenged the accounting - review the content of the Annual Report and such as governance developments, treasury, Energy judgements, especially those in relation to the Accounts and advise the Board on whether, Portfolio Management and accounting policies significant financial judgements as described on taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and and practices.
Secondly, it monitored and reviewed understandable: the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, - review and monitor the effectiveness of the As part of the ongoing refreshment of the including approval of the annual audit plan.
Internal Audit function, including approval of composition of the Audit Committee, Richard Thirdly, it assessed the effectiveness of the the annual audit plan: Gillingwater will cease to be a member when he External Auditor, including their independence, - review and monitor the objectivity and becomes Chairman of SSE on completion of the objectivity and effectiveness, and made a independence of the External Auditor, AGM, subject to being re-elected to the Board recommendation to the Board on the timescales including the policy to govern the provision at the meeting.
SSE intends to appoint a new for tendering the external audit contract.
Fourthly, of non-audit services: non-Executive Director around the time of the it reviewed the proposed amendments made - review and monitor the effectiveness of the AGM and membership of the Audit Committee to the Groups risk management and system of external audit process and the ongoing will be refreshed at this point.
internal control including a revised set of principal relationship with the External Auditor: risks and risk appetite statement.
Finally, it - review and make recommendations to Meetings and activities in 2014 15 considered a range of governance developments the Board on: the tendering of the external The Audit Committee met three times during affecting the activities of the Audit Committee audit contract: and the appointment, the year and details of members attendance is going forward and factored these into its updated remuneration and terms of engagement set out in the table above.
The Deputy Company annual work plan.
of the External Auditor: Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee.
- review and monitor the effectiveness of Meetings are also routinely attended by the: We will of course continue to keep our activities the risk management and internal control Company Chairman: Chief Executive: Finance under review to ensure the work of the Audit framework: and Director: Managing Director, Finance: Director 84 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Directors Report 3. of Risk, Audit and Insurance: and the External - the clarity of the disclosures and compliance judgment reviewed and considered by the Audit Auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
Other senior with financial reporting standards and Committee in relation to the 2015 financial managers including the: Managing Director, relevant financial and governance reporting statements, and how these were addressed Wholesale: Managing Director, Energy Portfolio requirements: are set out on page 86.
Management: Group Financial Controller: and - areas in which significant judgements had Director of Compliance are also invited to attend been applied or matters raised for discussion Internal Audit certain meetings in order to provide a deeper by the External Auditor, including those set The Internal Audit function is independent and level of insight into certain key issues.
out in the table on page 86: operates a risk-based methodology to review - letters of representation issued by internal control and risk management processes The Audit Committee meets with the External management to the External Auditor: and and procedures.
The Audit Committee is Auditor and management separately at least - whether the Annual Report and Accounts responsible for reviewing and monitoring the once a year in order to get feedback on the were fair, balanced and understandable effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, relationship and assess the effectiveness of and provided the information necessary including approval of the annual audit plan.
for shareholders to assess the companys To fulfil this responsibility during the year, the performance, business model and strategy.
Audit Committee reviewed: The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets - progress against the 2014 15 audit plan, separately with the Finance Director, Director In carrying out this review, the Audit Committee the results of audits and significant findings, of Risk, Audit and Insurance and the External received reports from members of the Group the adequacy of managements response to Auditor on a regular basis to ensure the work Finance Team and the External Auditor setting matters raised and the time taken to resolve of the Audit Committee is focused on key and out their views on the accounting treatments and these matters: emerging issues.
judgements included in the financial statements.
- reports from Internal Audit on the assessment of the risk management framework and the As part of the process of working with the Board During the year, SSE received a letter from the FRC internal control environment, including and to maximise effectiveness, meetings of the which raised a number of queries following its details on the level of alignment between Audit Committee take place in advance of Board review of the 2014 Annual Report.
The Chairman significant risks to the organisation and the meetings.
The Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee assisted management in audit plan: provides an update to the Board after each reviewing and drafting a response to the FRC letter - the audit plan for 2015 16 which includes a meeting and raises any recommendations along which included commitments by the Company fixed and flexible element in order to provide with a summary of the key issues discussed.
to provide additional information and explanation capacity to respond to changing business Minutes of Audit Committee meetings are in the 2015 Annual Report and going forward requirements and new and emerging risks: provided to the Board and External Auditor.
- the Internal Audit Charter and approved an updated version outlining the independence, Annual work plan Fair, Balanced and Understandable authority and responsibilities of the Internal Following the changes made to the composition assurance framework Audit function: and and chairmanship of the Audit Committee in July The Audit Committee reviewed and the Board - the expertise and resources available to the 2014, the Committee Chairman in consultation approved the assurance framework used to assist Internal Audit function.
with the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent the directors discharge the requirement to state that Director and Finance Director reviewed the annual the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced The Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance has work plan of the Audit Committee and proposed and understandable.
The main components of the management responsibility for the Internal Audit some adjustments to the meeting structure and the assurance framework which were used to assist function.
In addition to the normal corporate business being considered.
Following this review, with the preparation of 2015 Annual Report and reporting structure, the Director of Risk, Audit and a detailed work plan was approved by the Audit Accounts are highlighted below: Insurance is given the right of direct access to the Committee at its meeting in February 2015.
During - comprehensive guidance issued to Audit Committee, Chief Executive, and Company 2015 16, the number of Audit Committee meetings contributors: Chairman.
During the year, the Audit Committee will be increased from three to four.
In addition to - a verification process dealing with the considered his views on the effectiveness and regular updates, each meeting will have a theme factual content: resourcing of the Internal Audit function, together based on the reporting and audit cycle, including: - comprehensive reviews undertaken with an overview of areas for future development.
internal audit planning: full year results: external independently by the Companys Director audit planning: and half year results.
of Legal Services and Director of Strategy After taking into account all the above matters, Development to consider messaging the Audit Committee concluded that it is fully The key matters considered by the Audit and balance: satisfied with the effectiveness of the Internal Committee during the year principally fell - comprehensive reviews undertaken by the Audit function, and supports ongoing under the five main areas as set out below: Companys brokers and the External Auditor developments to further enhance its to ensure consistency and balance: effectiveness, including a comprehensive quality Financial reporting and significant - inclusion of a glossary of terms to aid assessment to ensure conformity with recognised financial judgements understanding: and internal audit standards, to be conducted by an Financial reporting - comprehensive review by the Directors and external organsation during 2015 16.
The Audit Committee assisted the Board with the senior management team.
the effective discharge of its responsibilities for External Audit financial reporting.
To fulfil this responsibility The Audit Committee and Board received KPMG was appointed as the External Auditor in during the year, the Audit Committee considered confirmation from management that the 1999 through a competitive tender process and challenged: assurance framework described above had following the merger which formed SSE.
KPMG - the integrity of the interim and annual been adhered to.
was re-appointed by shareholders at the 2014 financial statements and accompanying AGM, and have acted as the External Auditor of reports to shareholders: Significant financial judgements the Group throughout the year.
The External - the appropriateness of the accounting After discussion with management and the Auditor is required to rotate the lead audit policies and practices used: External Auditor, the significant areas of partner every five years.
The Audit Committee 85 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued monitors this rotation, and confirms that the advice.
Any non-audit services that exceed these Committee was satisfied that the work was current lead audit partner is in the first year of thresholds must be tendered unless the Audit best handled by the External Auditor because his term and will reach his five year term, and Committee Chairman is consulted in advance.
of their knowledge of the Group and the skills will therefore cease to act, on completion of The Audit Committee intends to conduct a and expertise that it brought to the assignment.
the audit for the financial year ended 31 March comprehensive review of the Non-Audit The Audit Committee considered reports from 2019.
The current lead audit partner is based in Services Policy during 2015 16. management which did not raise any concerns London and is supported by an audit team based in respect of the External Auditors objectivity in Glasgow, Reading and Dublin.
The Audit Committee receives a regular report and independence.
In addition, the External on the services being provided by the External Auditor has provided specific assurance to the Objectivity and independence Auditor and approves the fees incurred.
Fees Audit Committee on the arrangements it of External Auditor for audit-related and non-audit services has in place to maintain its objectivity and The Audit Committee is responsible for incurred during the year amounted to 0.15m independence.
The Audit Committee concluded reviewing and monitoring the objectivity and representing 15% of the audit fees.
Details of that it is fully satisfied with the objectivity and independence of the External Auditor.
To fulfil the fees paid to the External Auditor for audit, independence of the External Auditor.
this responsibility, the Audit Committee oversees audit-related and non-audit services during a policy to govern the non-audit services that the year is made in Note 5 to the Financial Effectiveness of External Auditor may be provided by the External Auditor.
Significant categories of and ongoing relationship Non-Audit Services Policy was reviewed and engagement for non-audit services awarded The Audit Committee is responsible for updated during the year, a copy of which is during the year include 66,000 in connection reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of available on www.
The policy sets with training and workshops on UK GAAP, both the external audit process and the ongoing out details of the allowable services that are business separation and other financial relationship with the External Auditor.
To fulfil pre-approved up to a threshold of 75,000 for regulation and 28,000 in relation to climate this responsibility during the year, the Audit general advice and 150,000 for tax-related change levy advice.
In each case, the Audit Committee reviewed: Significant financial judgements for the year ended 31 March 2015 How the Audit Committee addressed these significant financial judgements Accounting for estimated revenue: The Audit Committee reviewed a paper prepared by management Revenue from energy sales in the Retail division includes an estimate of which detailed the practical process issues and assumptions applied in the value of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of determining the basis of recognition of unbilled debtors, with particular the last meter reading and the year end.
This is based on estimates and reference to domestic gas.
The Audit Committee also considered assumptions in relation to the estimated consumption and valuation detailed reporting from, and held discussions with, the External Auditor of that consumption see Notes 3 and 19 to the Financial Statements.
Valuation of receivables: The Audit Committee considered a paper which described the The recoverability of the Groups billed energy receivables in the Retail assumptions impacting management judgements on doubtful debt division is a key judgement area given the risk of customer insolvency or allowances and charges, and were updated on the activities of the default.
The level of the Groups aged debt is monitored with the basis of Groups Debts Steering Group whose members include the Finance the Groups allowances for doubtful debt being based on assumptions Director and other senior management and the processes for derived from experience and industry knowledge see Notes 3 and 19 receivables collection and provisioning.
The Audit Committee also to the Financial Statements.
considered the results of the work of the External Auditor in this area.
Carrying value of certain non-current assets: The basis and outcome of this review is described in a paper presented to The carrying value of certain non-current assets in the Group the Audit Committee by management.
The paper includes a description including power generation plants and goodwill needs to be assessed of the assumptions applied in deriving the recoverable values.
The Audit by reference to the recoverable value value-in-use or fair value less Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions and projections costs to sell of the asset or the associated CGU cash generating unit.
presented in the management paper and also considered the detailed An annual valuation impairment exercise is carried out.
The assumptions reporting from, and findings by, the External Auditor.
Following this applied in this exercise require judgements on the economic factors review, the Audit Committee supported the recommendation to associated with the assets under review see Notes 3 and 13 to the recognise exceptional charges of 667.5m in relation to certain assets Financial Statements.
Accounting for legal and contractual claims: The significant disputes, claims and other actions against the Group and The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation and contractual disputes the associated accounting judgements and disclosures are reported to through the course of its normal operations.
The Group needs to the Audit Committee by management.
The Audit Committee reviewed consider the level of provision or disclosure in relation to these and challenged the assumptions underpinning the accounting treatment claims utilising legal advice which is an inherently subjective and sought the views of External Auditor in this area.
process see Note 3 to the Financial Statements.
Accounting for Group pension obligations: The costs, assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit retirement The assumptions in relation to the cost to the Group of providing schemes are regularly reviewed.
Advice is taken from independent actuaries post-retirement benefits during the period are set after consultation on the IAS 19R valuation of the schemes.
The Audit Committee were with qualified actuaries and can have a significantly material impact updated on the schemes valuation from management at each period on the financial position of the Group see Notes 3 and 30 to the end and also considered the reporting of the External Auditor particularly Financial Statements.
in relation to the schemes key assumptions relative to market practice.
- regular reports on progress against the rotation obligation, and the impact both - Treasury, setting out: strategy: market 2014 15 External Auditors plan, significant have on the timing of a tender: developments: debt structure: maturity profiles: findings, the adequacy of managements - management of the audit requirement funding plan: going concern: credit rating: foreign response to matters raised and the time regarding the change in UK GAAP at exchange: and significant risks and controls: taken to resolve any such matters: subsidiary level: and - Internal Audit on cyber security risks and - the competence with which the External - the lead time to ensure potential audit vulnerabilities, including the development Auditor handled and communicated the firms are not restricted in their ability to of the IT security programme: key accounting and audit judgements: tender for the external audit contract - Energy Portfolio Management setting out: - the effectiveness of the overall audit process arising from existing contracts for strategy: market prices and analysis: financial for 2014 15, including meeting with the non-audit work.
regulation developments: energy portfolio and External Auditor and management separately counterparty credit exposures: and significant to identify any areas of concern: After taking into account the matters outlined risks and controls: - the quality of both the External Auditors above, in addition to the arrangements for - Group Risk on the proposed new framework for report to, and the Audit Partners interaction monitoring all aspects of the relationship with the identification, evaluation and monitoring of with, the Audit Committee: the External Auditor, and the transitional principal risks, including their assessment of the - feedback from management on the ongoing arrangements under the EU Audit Directive, upon risk management framework and internal relationship with the External Auditor: the recommendation of the Audit Committee, control environment: - the qualifications, expertise and resources the Board concluded that it was in the best - Internal Audit on the implementation of of the External Auditor: and interests of the company not to tender the audit the whistleblowing policy and the plans to - feedback from business and finance contract at this time.
The matters highlighted in develop SSEs approach to this area in 2015 16: management based on a questionaire this section constitute the Companys rationale - Internal Audit highlighting investigations into designed to provide an overview assessment and explanation for non-compliance with allegations and incidents of fraud across the of KPMGs capability and performance in section C. 3.7. of the Code.
Group, and the Companys response: and providing external audit services to SSE.
- the External Auditor, on its assessment of The five year rotation of the current lead Audit significant risks and the internal control After taking into account all the above matters, Partner will end on completion of the audit for environment in so far as is necessary to form the Audit Committee concluded that it is fully the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
It is an opinion on the true and fair view of the satisfied with the effectiveness of both the likely that a tender process will take place in financial statements.
external audit process and the ongoing 2018, in advance of shareholder approval being relationship with the External Auditor.
sought at the AGM in 2019 and the appointment These reports provided the Audit Committee of a new External Auditor for the financial year with invaluable insights into the risks facing the Appointment of External Auditor ending 31 March 2020.
There are no contractual Group and the management of them, and The Audit Committee is responsible for obligations which restrict the choice of External informs the Board in its review of the reviewing and making recommendations to the Auditor, and any future tender process will be effectiveness of the risk management and Board on the appointment, remuneration and based on a clear selection and assessment internal control framework.
terms of engagement of the External Auditor.
The Audit Committee will continue the 2014 AGM, shareholders re-appointed KPMG to keep under review the timing of the tender Governance as the External Auditor of the company for the for the external audit contract and will make In addition to the review of the annual work year ended 31 March 2015, and authorised the recommendations to the Board.
In light plan, Fair, Balanced and Understandable Directors to fix their remuneration.
In making of the decision to defer tendering, resolutions assurance framework, Non-Audit Services Policy such recommendations to the Board, the to re-appoint KPMG as External Auditor of and timing for the tender of the external audit Audit Committee considered the objectivity, the Company for the year ending 31 March contract as described in this report, the Audit independence, effectiveness, and ongoing 2016, and to authorise the Audit Committee Committee considered the governance-related relationship with the External Auditor as to fix their remuneration, will be proposed matters described below.
described above, in addition to the External to shareholders at the AGM on 23 July 2015.
Auditors approach, scope, areas of focus, level Terms of reference of materiality and remuneration for the audit Internal control and risk management The terms of reference of the Audit Committee of the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
Whilst the Board is responsible for the overall were updated during the year.
system of internal control and risk management, Tendering of External Audit responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the Disclosure of information to Auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing ongoing effectiveness of the system is covered The governance arrangements around the and making recommendations to the Board on by a number of key Committees and related disclosure of information to the External Auditor tendering of the external audit contract.
Whilst the assurance activities across the Group.
Full have been enhanced to assist the Directors Audit Committee has kept under review all aspects details of the Groups internal control and risk discharge their responsibilities and make the of the relationship with the External Auditor, no management framework, including an overview statement as set out on page 109. formal tender of the audit process has been carried of developments during the year to design out since KPMGs appointment in 1999.
The Audit and implement an improved framework and Evaluation Committee was briefed on audit tendering and approach for the identification and management During the course of the year, regular challenge rotation developments and is fully aware of the of risk within SSE, along with an explanation and engagement with management, Internal Audit audit tendering recommendations set out in the of the requirements under the relevant FRC and the External Auditor, together with the timely Code.
Before making a recommendation to the guidance, are set out on page 80.
The Audit circulation of reports and information, has enabled Board on the timing of the external audit contract Committee plays an important role in the Audit Committee to discharge its duties and tender, the Audit Committee considered: the internal control and risk management responsibilities effectively.
As part of the Board - the quality, stability and continuity provided by framework, and during the year it reviewed evaluation process, the operation of the Audit the relationship with the current External Auditor: information drawn from a number of different Committee was evaluated, and it was confirmed - the changes to auditor tendering sources, including reports from: that it was operating effectively.
Details of the requirements and the mandatory auditor evaluation process are set out on page 79.
