CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance.
The following section will detail how the UK Corporate Governance Code has been applied during the year.
Key topics of discussion throughout the year have included recruitment, legal matters, CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION expansion and corporate governance matters.
Additional details of the Groups strategy I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Report, which confirms that for can be found on page 15. the year ended 26 April 2015, the Group has complied with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
As Chairman of the Board I feel honoured to be surrounded by fellow members who are so passionate about their roles.
The Board is committed to maintaining the principles of During the year we have seen a change in the Boards structure as a result of the governance, by actively questioning, challenging and endeavouring to understand the retirement of Charles McCreevy in September 2014.
Since the retirement of Charles we Executive.
Throughout the year one-to-one meetings have been held between Executive have been actively looking to recruit a further Non-Executive Director.
and Non-Executive Board members in order that Non-Executive Board members can gain During our continuing search for Non-Executive Directors, we are actively encouraging a fuller understanding of what is taking place in the Group.
The Group hopes to achieve Lord Davies target of a 25% representation of women on our Board by the end of 2015.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Groups lack of a Finance Director during FY15 was a matter which was questioned The overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal controls systems by a number of our investors, and I have previously reported that we were aware that sits with the Board.
This is an on-going process which relates to the identification, the position was unusual for most FTSE 100 Companies.
Throughout the recruitment evaluation, management and monitoring of significant risks.
This complies with the UK process we felt that we hit a number of hurdles which hindered recruitment, including Corporate Governance Code.
that our Group Executives are some of the lowest paid Board members in the FTSE 100, and that the remuneration package can be conceived as unappealing.
However The Board is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in the culture of the Group is payment as reward and the team is awarded large bonuses September 2012.
The main principles of the Code are: for outstanding achievements.
Furthermore our small Executive team work for a large LEADERSHIP amount of their time from the Group Head Office in Derbyshire.
However the majority EFFECTIVENESS of experienced Executives are concentrated in the south of the country, and many find it ACCOUNTABILITY difficult to consider spending large amounts of the week working away from home.
REMUNERATIONS Throughout the year we focussed on appointing a Finance Director, and in doing so 37 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS we have tried to adapt our culture and offer applicants financial packages to meet The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance processes and policies, and their expectations in the short term.
However in doing this we have had to be mindful has concluded that during the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 the year the Company that there is fairness amongst the Board and that the culture of the Group is not eroded.
complied with the provisions of the Code.
We feel that our culture and pay strategy has been key to our success to date, and changing this for a particular candidate could have an adverse effect on our future progress.
THE BOARD The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, Keith Hellawell, the Executive However, as time moved on we noted that a strong internal candidate had assumed Deputy Chairman, Mike Ashley, two other Executive Directors, and three further many of the responsibilities, so we have appointed Matt Pearson as Acting Chief Non-Executive Directors.
The names, skills and short biographies of each member Financial Officer.
Matt has been with the Group since 2007, having initially joined as of the Board are set out on page 33.
Matt has shown great loyalty and promise, and having worked his way up the ranks we feel that he will be a valued addition to the Board.
The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure that there is the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Throughout the year the Board has actively engaged with shareholders through various meetings and lengthy written correspondence.
Board members have travelled to a ROLE OF THE BOARD number of locations in order to communicate with shareholders, and have sought The role of the Board is to ensure the overall long-term success of the Group.
This is guidance from our Company Secretarial team when necessary.
The Groups approach achieved through the review, development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
to investor relations was hindered recently following the end of the fixed-term contract The Board also maintains responsibility for corporate responsibility, accountability and post of Director, Strategic Development.
However at all times the Group endeavours to ensure effective leadership is delegated to management for the day to day running to promote harmonious relationships with investors, and looking forward we aim to of the Group and ensures an appropriate strategy is in place for succession planning.
forge even stronger investor relationships by utilising the skills and knowledge of Matt Pearson.
The Board has a programme in place to enable it to discharge its responsibility of providing effective and entrepreneurial leadership to the Group within a framework The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code has been discussed by the Board, and will of prudent and effective controls.
be embraced once it applies to the Group.
We are aware that two of the key aims are to promote accountability and improve alignment between business decisions and The Board plans to meet on a formal basis six times during the year with up to four shareholder interests.
additional strategy meetings at convenient times throughout the year when broader issues concerning the strategic future of the Group will be discussed.
The Board will In an effort to look towards fully integrating the Code we have received specific meet on other occasions as and when the business demands.
During FY15 the Board guidance from external bodies.
We have initially focused the application of the Code met on 13 occasions.
on risks reporting and remuneration, and we are working on the broader applications.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED A detailed agenda is established for each meeting, and appropriate documentation is The Executive Deputy Chairman is an ambassador for the Company.
He takes the lead provided to Directors in advance of the meeting.
Regular Board meetings provide an in the strategic development of the Company, formulating the vision and strategy in agenda that will include reports from the Chief Executive, reports on the performance conjunction with the Chief Executive.
of the business and current trading, reports on meetings with investors, reports from The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Executive Committees of the Board and specific proposals where the approval of the Board Deputy Chairman, whose wholly-owned companies, MASH Holdings Limited and MASH is sought.
The Board will monitor and question monthly performance and review Beta Limited, currently hold approximately 4.43% and 50.71% respectively of the issued anticipated results.
share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
This agreement is described in Presentations are also given on business or strategic issues where appropriate, and the Directors Report on page 34. the Board will consider at least annually the strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Groups business for the delivery meetings of Committees of the Board are circulated to all members of the Board, unless of the strategy, leading the management team and implementing specific decisions a conflict of interest arises, to enable all Directors to have oversight of those matters made by the Board to help meet shareholder expectations.
The Chief Executive reports to delegated to Committees, and copies of analysts reports and brokers notes are each Board meeting on all material matters affecting the Groups performance.
No one provided to Directors.
individual has unfettered power of decision.
In an effort to secure the long-term future of the Group, the Board has created a high Given the structure of the Board, the fact that the Chairman and Chief Executive roles performance culture within the Group by devising stretching Share Schemes as well as are fulfilled by two separate individuals and the terms of the Relationship Agreement a share scheme for senior members of management.
Areas discussed include investor with Mike Ashley, the Board believes that no individual or small group of individuals can relations, human resources and health and safety.
The Board also receives updates on dominate the Boards decision making.
areas including risk management and internal control systems.
THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS It is the responsibility of the Directors to ensure that the accounts are prepared and The Board consists of three Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The role of the submitted.
Having assessed the current Annual Report, along with the accounts, the Non-Executive Directors is to understand the Group in its entirety and constructively Directors confirm that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable.
challenge strategy and management performance, set Executive remuneration levels and The Directors do confirm that these documents provide the necessary information in ensure an appropriate succession planning strategy is in place.
They must also ensure they order for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
are satisfied with the accuracy of financial information and that thorough risk management KEY ACTIVITIES processes are in place.
Ensuring the long-term success of the Group The Non-Executive Directors have excellent experience from a wide range of sectors.
38 Considering the obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders The Non-Executive Directors assist the Board with issues such as governance, internal Considering the effect the Groups activities have on the environment and community control, remuneration and risk management.
in which it operates Simon Bentley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He supports the Chairman Maintaining a high business reputation and Non-Executive Directors and is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
Maintaining relationships with suppliers, customers and the wider community THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS There is a formal schedule of matters that require Board approval: they are matters that Non-Executive Directors are required to disclose prior appointments and other significant could have significant strategic, financial or reputational effects on the Group as a whole.
commitments to the Board and are required to inform the Board of any changes to or additional commitments.
Details of the Non-Executives Directors external appointments MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD can be found on page 33.
Sets budgets Monitors and reviews strategy and business performance Before accepting new appointments Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain Approves acquisitions, expansions into other regions countries approval from the Chairman, and the Chairman requires the approval of the whole Board.
It is essential that no appointment causes a conflict of interest or jeopardises Appointments and removal of Board members the Non-Executive Directors commitment and time spent with the Group in their Succession planning existing appointment.
Overall responsibility for internal control and risk management as described on pages 40 to 41 THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE The Group considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in accordance with the THE CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
Each year the Board evaluations consider the independence of each Board member.
However they work closely together to ensure effective decision-making and the successful The most recent evaluations did not highlight any Directors who lacked independence.
delivery of the Groups strategy.
Although the Board has remained constant for some time, the longest-serving member of the Board has been with the Board for eight years, this being less than the nine year The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and that period after which independence may become questionable.
all Directors are able to play a full part in the activities of the Company.
He ensures that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chairman officiates effective communication with shareholders and ensures that the Board understands the views of major investors, and is available to provide advice and support to members of the Executive team.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - BOARD COMMITTEES CONFLICTS OF INTEREST To assist the Board with their duties, there are three principal Board Committees, being The Board has set procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest that arise.
the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
During the year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational The Committees are governed by terms of reference which provide detail of matters conflicts of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational delegated to each Committee and the authority they have to make decisions.
Full terms conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any transactional conflicts of of reference are available on request and on the Companys website.
interest concerning Directors that arose and were declared.
No Director took part in the discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year and the total transactional conflict of interest.
number of meetings that they could have attended are set out in the table below.
All Directors attended all meetings of the Board and of Committees of the Board of which EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - RE-ELECTION they were members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The Board is The Group complies with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code and all Directors offer satisfied that currently no one Director exercises a disproportionate influence.
themselves for re-election every year.
Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The Board has determined that all Directors must put themselves forward for election  Committee Committee or re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting to comply with the UK Corporate Scheduled Unscheduled Meetings Meetings Meetings Governance Code.
Retiring Directors may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to 1 Keith Hellawell 5 5 7 8 3 3 4 4 2 2 do so and if so recommended by the Nomination Committee.
All Directors appointed by Mike Ashley 5 5 4 8 - 1 4 - the Board are appointed after consideration of the recommendations of the Nomination Committee, and those so appointed must stand for reappointment at the following Annual Simon Bentley 5 5 6 8 3 3 4 4 2 2 General Meeting.
1 1 1 Dave Forsey 5 5 8 8 3 3 4 4 2 2 Details of Executive Directors service contracts, and of the Chairmans and the NonDave Singleton 5 5 8 8 3 3 4 4 2 2 Executive Directors appointment letters, are given on pages 48 to 49.
Copies of service Claire Jenkins 5 5 8 8 3 3 4 4 2 2 contracts and of appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
Charles 2 5 2 8 1 3 1 4 1 2 2 McCreevy EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE - TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 1 A number of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meetings were attended by Board members All newly appointed Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored who were not members of the Committees.
The Board members concerned attended these meetings at the invitation of the Committee to their existing skills and experience.
The Board is informed of any material changes to members.
39 2 Meetings attended by Charles McCreevy up until his retirement on 10 September 2014. laws and regulations affecting the Groups business.
The meetings which took place throughout the year were a mixture of both scheduled All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and each meetings, for general matters, and unscheduled meetings, for more urgent matters.
Director and each Board Committee may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, subject to prior notification to the other Non-Executive Directors and All scheduled meetings were attended by all existing Committee members.
Appropriate Directors and Officers Insurance is maintained by unscheduled meetings all absent members were subsequently given the opportunity to the Company.
review the information and endorse or question the decisions made.
This ensured that all members could have their thoughts recorded, even though they werent available during EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - the meeting itself.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The practices and processes of the Board are evaluated on a yearly basis, with the most Immediately following two unscheduled Board meetings Simon Bentley gave approval recent evaluation being led internally.
Following evaluations the feedback obtained is via email.
Keith Hellawell also gave telephone approval immediately following one considered and the Board act on the learnings which have come to light.
unscheduled meeting which he was unable to attend.
These absences were unavoidable due to other pre-planned commitments by the Directors.
Despite the relative short notice of During 2014, the evaluations were led externally, by using an evaluator selected by many of the unscheduled meetings, attendance levels by the Board has remained high.
the Board, NJMD Corporate Services Limited, which is a specialist consultancy led by Nigel Davies.
There were a number of meetings throughout the year which were solely for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Meetings also took place which were attended by Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman.
These meetings enabled the Non-Executive Directors to discuss matters which they perhaps could not discuss with the Executive Directors and or the Non-Executive Chairman present.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL CONTROLS AUDIT COMMITTEE As one of the fastest-growing retailers with rapidly expanding overseas and internet AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 2015 operations, we have many complex operational risks to manage.
Dear Shareholder, The audit reviews led by the long established Retail Support Unit have led the way, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the 52 weeks ended 26 through their audits across the retail operations each year, in providing comfort over the April 2015. efficiency of controls over the operational procedures and systems which help to generate and report the numbers within the Financial Statements, and will continue to do so.
The Audit Committee has an important role to play in effective reporting to our stakeholders and ensuring high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit Conscious of the rate of growth, increasing complexity and the increase in responsibility process.
This year has seen the introduction of many changes to corporate reporting.
that we as an Audit Committee have in reviewing the internal controls throughout the year, we appointed BDO last year as internal audit advisers.
BDO have specialists experienced This report provides an overview of: in auditing the strategies and plans put in place to mitigate risks to further strengthen the What the Committee has done during the year, and what is planned for 2016: control environment.
The effectiveness of its activities: BDO have conducted a review of our key risks, and, in consultation with us, have How it has assessed the effectiveness of the external auditors, including ensuring their developed a strategic audit plan to provide assurance to the Audit Committee regarding independence: and the management of these key risks over the next three years.
This plan was presented to The Committees opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as a whole.
the Audit Committee, and has been approved and agreed as a detailed annual programme.
MEMBERSHIP The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for considering operational, The Audit Committee comprises me as Chairman, and all of the Non-Executive Directors.
financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Information on the Groups approach to Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on internal control and risk management is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 33. pages 37 to 43.
MEETINGS EXTERNAL AUDITORS The Committee met three times during the year and attendance at those meetings is On an annual basis, the Committee considers the reappointment of the auditors and their shown on page 39 within the Corporate Governance Report.
At the invitation of the remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board.
The auditors are appointed each Committee members, the Group Chairman, Chief Executive and the Acting Chief Financial year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee consider the level of service provided Officer attend Committee meetings, as do the external and internal auditors.
After each by the auditors and their independence.
40 of its meetings, we met with the external auditors, in each case without the presence of Executive Directors or management.
In addition I meet with the auditors as and when it The Committee has recommended the reappointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP for FY16.
The Committee took a number of factors into account in its assessment including but not limited to: THE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INCLUDE: The quality and scope of the planning of the audit in assessing risks and how the Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external auditors planned to evolve the audit to respond to changes in the business: external audits and controls.
The quality and timeliness of reports provided to the Committee and the Board: Agreeing the scope of the annual audit and the annual audit plan and monitoring the same.
The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses and the retail sector: Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditors and relationships with them.
The objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around the Group and the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which required management Agreeing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work that may be undertaken.
judgement: and Reviewing and agreement of the external audit fees.
A review of external reports published, for example by the FRC, in respect of Monitoring, making judgements and recommendations on the financial reporting Grant Thornton.
process and the integrity and clarity of the Groups Financial Statements.
Reviewing and monitoring, throughout the year, the effectiveness of the internal control The Committees view following this assessment was positive in relation to their evaluation and risk management policies and systems in place, including a review of the activities of the work of the external auditors and they felt that high standards had of the internal audit function.
Monitoring the audit of the annual and consolidated accounts including a review of the After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the Letter of Representation, Audit Findings report and engagement letters.
Reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities and the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
The Committee believes their independence, the objectivity of the external audit and the effectiveness of the audit process is safeguarded and remains strong.
This is displayed WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
through their robust internal processes, their continuing challenge, their focused reporting Monitored the effectiveness of internal controls, and also considered the current and their discussions with both management and the Audit Committee.
economic climate and its likely impact on the Group.
To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external auditors are required to rotate Considered the reappointment of the auditors.
audit partners for the Group audit every five years and the current lead partner has been Reviewed accounting policies, presentations and the Financial Statements.
Under the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, audit services Reviewed its own effectiveness must be put to tender at least every ten years or else we must explain why we have not done so.
Our current auditors, namely Grant Thornton UK LLP, have been in place since the listing in February 2007.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In light of the above our current intention is to put the external audit services to tender for Review by the senior manager working group responsible for the Annual Report process.
the audit of the period ending April 2017.
Interim progress review of process and report content with the Audit Committee.
Review of a paper presented to the Committee, which set out to review the contents of The Committee has approved a policy on the engagement of the external auditors for nonthe Annual Report and substantiate why it provided a fair, balanced and understandable audit work, in order to ensure that the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups view of the year under review.
Financial Statements is not or may not be seen to be impaired, and has established a process to monitor compliance.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and has confirmed it is fair, balanced and understandable.
The external auditors may carry out certain categories of non-audit work that have either been pre-approved by the Committee or the Board, depending on the nature and monetary FINANCIAL REPORTING value of the services to be provided.
The policy also prohibits the auditors auditing their The Committees review of the interim and full year Financial Statements focused on the own work and making management decisions.
following areas of significance: Risk of fraud in revenue recognition The Committee have reviewed the revenue The policy identified three categories of potential work.
recognition policies for all material revenue streams.
They have also reviewed and considered the audit findings and the overall control environment in place surrounding AUDITOR AUTHORITY TYPE OF WORK the recognition of revenue and is satisfied that revenue has been correctly recognised in Work the auditor may not provide as The work includes the preparation of accounting the Financial Statements.
completing the task could create a entries or Financial Statements, IT systems design threat to independence.
and implementation, management of projects and tax Derivative financial assets The Committee has reviewed the valuation of contracts planning where the outcome would have a material for difference assets as at 26 April 2015, the accounting treatment of fair value impact on the Financial Statements or where the movements on these contracts and the related disclosures included in the Financial outcome is dependent upon accounting treatment.
The Committee have concluded that the valuations have been reasonably Work the auditor may undertake with Corporate finance services, acquisition due diligence, reflected in derivative financial assets, that appropriate estimates have been applied the consent of the Chairman of the management consultancy and secondment of staff other and that these have therefore been correctly treated and adequately disclosed in the Audit Committee.
than for the preparation of accounting entries or Financial Financial Statements.
Carrying value of inventory - the Committee has reviewed managements paper setting Work the auditor may undertake.
There are services that the auditors may provide as the out the basis on which the inventory provision is calculated and is satisfied with the work is clearly audit-related and there is no potential reasonableness and consistency of model applied and that stock is held at the lower of threat to independence, including regulatory reporting and acting as reporting accountants.
The Company is cost and net realisable value.
41 satisfied that its policy falls within the requirements of Intangibles impairment assessment - the Committee considered the key judgements the Auditing Practices Board.
including the discount rate, long-term growth rate, and the projected future cash flows of each cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated, based upon financial plans approved by the Board.
The Committee is satisfied with the methodology and The Committee reviewed the nature and extent of non-audit fees expended on assumptions used, and the conclusion that the Groups intangible assets are not transactions, pensions and tax advisory services, tax compliance, the review of the half impaired.
year report and other assurance related services, and the Committee concluded that the safeguards set out above were sufficient so as not to compromise auditor independence or The Audit Committee is satisfied with the level of rigor applied by the external auditors in objectivity.
addressing these areas as part of the audit procedures.
REVIEWED ACCOUNTING POLICIES, PRESENTATIONS AND THE REVIEW OF OWN EFFECTIVENESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS After undertaking a review of its own performance the Committee concluded that it had Following the revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies to financial been effective in discharging the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
years commencing on or after 1 October 2014, the Board asked the Committee to advise on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, Simon Bentley balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director assess the Groups business model, strategy and performance.
The Committee reviewed the process for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
16 July 2015 This process included the following key elements: Review of new regulations and reporting requirements with external advisers to identify additional information and disclosures that may be appropriate.
Preparation of a detailed timetable and allocation of drafting responsibility to relevant internal teams with review by an appropriate senior manager.
Provision of an explanation of the requirements of fair, balanced and understandable to those with drafting responsibility.
Monitoring of the integrity of the Financial Statements and other information provided to shareholders to ensure they represented a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups financial performance and position.
Review of significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the Financial Statements.
Review of all sections of the report by relevant external advisers.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Nomination Committee will meet at least once a year and will also meet when REMUNERATION COMMITTEE appropriate.
The Committee met formally on two occasions during FY15.
However the Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on Nomination Committee met informally on a number of further occasions during the year in page 33. order to discuss the appointment of a replacement Finance Director and a Non-Executive The Remuneration Committee consists solely of Non-Executive Directors who are Director s. All of the Nomination Committee members are Non-Executive Directors and considered independent.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board to ensure considered to be independent.
that Executive and Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate levels of pay and benefits.
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE INCLUDE: A key priority is to ensure that remuneration policy is aligned with strategy to achieve Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group, looking at both Executives and the long-term success of the Group.
The Committee ensures that it complies with the Non-Executives.
requirements of regulatory and governance bodies including the UK Corporate Governance Reviewing the composition, structure and size of the Board, and making Code whilst meeting stakeholder, shareholder and staff expectations.
recommendations to the Board of adjustments that are deemed necessary.
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE INCLUDE: Giving consideration to succession planning for Directors, taking into account the Determining the Companys policy on Executive remuneration, including the design challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise therefore of bonus schemes and targets and payments made thereunder.
Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and each of the Ensuring that Directors are aware of what is expected of them.
Formally documenting the appointment of Directors.
Monitoring the remuneration of senior management and making recommendations in Identifying potential candidates for senior posts, and making recommendations to the respect thereof.
Board as and when necessary.
Agreeing any compensation for loss of office of any Executive Director.
The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a formal, rigorous and The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year and met on four occasions transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and the A report on the remuneration of Directors appears on pages 44 to 52.
Chief Executive who are not present at meetings when the matter is discussed.
Succession plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee at least once a year.
WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
Worked on the Share Scheme, including announcements and assessing the likelihood Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, will usually attend meetings of the Nomination of achieving targets etc.
Committee, unless the Nomination Committee is dealing with matters relating to him or Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report contained on pages 42 with the appointment of his successor.
Full details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report on Assisted with the search for a Finance Director and recommended the appointment page 50. of Matt Pearson.
Facilitated the search for a Non-Executive Director and reviewed the steps taken Dave Singleton towards making an appointment.
Candidates met with members of the Committee in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee order that the Committee were able to form a conclusion regarding recommendations.
Reviewed the top management structure in place.
Made recommendations as to 16 July 2015 changes which may be required in order to strengthen the position of the Group in future.
Recommended and appointed another Non-Executive Director to the Committee.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE Met with corporate governance bodies and reviewed the feedback given.
In my role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I ensure that the Board remains competent, balanced and effective.
These goals are achieved in a number of ways, The Board believes that the Board and its Committees as currently constituted are including monitoring the succession of the Board, reviewing its performance and working well.
identifying and nominating suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Dr Keith Hellawell QPM Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of Directors profiles Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Board on page 33.
16 July 2015 During a review of the skills, experience and diversity of the Committee, it was recommended that Claire Jenkins should join, an appointment which she has duly accepted.
The aim of the Committee is to ensure that the Board remains balanced, knowledgeable and diverse in order that it is able to fully meet the needs of the Group.
Going forward we aim to continue to manage the transition of the Board, in particular the addition of new Non-Executive Directors, through meetings with candidates both at interviews and at networking events, consulting with other Committee members regarding their views on the suitability of candidates, and discussing the key requirements of the Group with Board members.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 UK BRIBERY ACT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group has an approved policy in place which was created following the introduction The key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk management systems of the UK Bribery Act.
As a result of the Act, all policies and procedures have been in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group accounts are reviewed to ensure that they comply with the Act and measures are in place to prevent set out below or cross-referred to other parts of the Annual Report where relevant.
staff being offered and or accepting bribes.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for BUSINESS MODEL maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems, and for reviewing their Our business model, which sets out the basis on which the Company generates or effectiveness.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed preserves value over the longer term, and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives.
Company, can be found at pages 14 and 15.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
WHISTLE-BLOWING There is a formal whistle-blowing policy in place for staff who wish to raise issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities on a confidential basis.
ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS RISK A system to identify, assess, and evaluate business risk is embedded within the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS management processes throughout the Group.
Strategic risks are regularly reviewed by The Board recognise the importance of communicating with shareholders.
This is done the Board and its Committees.
Risks relating to the key activities within the subsidiary through the Annual Report and general meetings, and announcements.
All Directors are operating units are assessed continuously.
available at, and folllowing the Annual General Meeting when shareholders have the Further details of the risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups business, and how the opportunity to ask questions.
Group seeks to mitigate these, can be found on pages 17 to 20.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive regularly meet with the Companys institutional shareholders to discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance within the By Order of the Board constraints of information already available to the public.
All other board members are also available to meet with shareholders, as and when required.
Cameron Olsen Company Secretary The Companys corporate website is an important tool of communication, which should 16 July 2015 be used as the first port of call for shareholders.
The site holds all London Stock Exchange announcements, together with downloadable investor presentations, share price charts and brand information.
43 During the year members of the Board and senior management have met with shareholders in order to discuss their queries.
The meetings have been considered an opportunity not only to recognise the matters which are of importance to shareholders, but also for shareholders to recognise how the Group operates.
The shareholder meetings that have taken place during the year include face to face meetings, individual and group conference calls, letters and emails.
REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and reviewing remuneration policy and setting remuneration levels.
See Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 52.
SHARE DEALING CODE The Group has adopted the Model Code as published in the UK Listing Rules.
All those deemed to have insider information must seek consent prior to any dealing whatsoever in the Groups shares.
The Executive Directors must obtain prior consent from the Chairman or the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman requires consent from the Chief Executive or the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and any other employees with insider information must gain the prior consent of the Chief Executive or Company Secretary before dealing in the Groups shares.
Details concerning the share capital structure of the Company can be found in the Directors Report on pages 34 to 36.
