GOVERNANCE Clinical Governance and Safety Committee Report Dear Shareholder, healthcare environment, and the current PROFESSOR DAME JANET HUSBAND position of the hospital highlighting COMMITTEE CHAIR On behalf of the Clinical Governance and particular successes and areas for further Safety Committee the Committee or improvement.
The hospital director would CGSC, I am pleased to present our report The Committee has covered also highlight their future aspirations for the for the year ended 31 December 2015 development of clinical services and spend much ground this year, and to look ahead to the coming year.
The time discussing these issues with members Committee has covered much ground this overseeing the delivery of of the Committee.
Consultants in different year overseeing the delivery of clinical specialties and senior members of clinical services through services through promoting best practice staff would also be invited to meet the and clinical governance and I am proud promoting best practice Committee for informal discussions which to report that excellent progress has been provided an opportunity for members to and governance.
made in developing the Quality Governance engage on an individual basis.
Framework which, from 2016, will provide assurance to the Board on the quality of The Committee continued to receive services provided across all our hospitals quarterly clinical governance reports and the on a single dashboard and will also permit clinical governance and safety reports.
These benchmarking of clinical services between reports are presented by the Groups Medical individual hospitals.
Director and include data on clinical key performance indicators, and compliance I would also like to take this opportunity with the balanced scorecard.
The Committee to acknowledge the support and openness also scrutinised trends in performance over we have received from all staff across the time and reviewed both staff and patient business to our enquiries and recognise satisfaction surveys.
the commitment of my fellow Committee members to fully understand and embrace In addition, the Committee received reports these extremely important matters.
on Health and Safety and Information Governance.
It also regularly reviewed the 2015 ACTIVITIES Companys Whistleblowing Register.
During 2015, the CGSC met on eight The Committee continued its programme of occasions, three of which were at one of the themed reviews which last year focused on: Companys hospitals with the remainder being held at the Companys London head Quality Governance Framework: office.
Our off-site meetings were deemed Spire Healthcares complaints policy and to be highly successful, both from the process: Committees and the hospital staffs perspective.
Meetings were held at Spire Clinical Reviews: and Hospital and Perform Centre, Southampton Resident Medical Officer Services.
in March, Spire Hartswood Hospital, Brentwood in May and Spire Murrayfield These reviews consisted of an appraisal of Hospital, Edinburgh in December.
Each Spire Healthcares approach to each area hospital visit began with a tour of the under review and the Committee also made hospitals facilities by the hospital director recommendations for future development and matron, and allowed an opportunity to and scrutiny of the various activities.
meet both clinical and administrative staff.
In addition, the Committee reviews CQC and This would be followed by presentations to other regulators inspection reports on Spire the Committee describing the current local Healthcare hospitals.
72 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE IMPORTANCE OF GOOD CLINICAL GOVERNANCE TO SPIRE HEALTHCARE Clinical Governance and Safety Committee at a glance Clinical governance, and the importance of embedding sound and robust practices that COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP deliver patient safety, are of paramount The Clinical Governance and Safety Committee must have at least two members, one of importance to our business.
whom must be an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board appoints the Chair of the Committee who must be an independent Non-Executive Director.
HOSPITAL VISITS Committee Committee meetings In last years report I indicated that I had Member member since Position in Company attended in 2015 begun a programme of informal visits to all of our hospitals in order to better understand Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 8 8 the business, culture and ethos within Spire Committee Chair Director Healthcares diverse portfolio.
During the Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 8 8 year, I visited a further 15 different sites so Director that I have now visited 29 hospitals within Garry Watts July 2014 Chairman 5 8 the Companys portfolio in total over the past 18 months.
This has allowed me to be Rob Roger July 2014 Chief Executive Officer 4 8 an independent observer of a hospitals The maximum number of meetings that the member could have attended during 2015 operations.
I am therefore in a position to is shown in brackets.
Members biographies are shown on pages 58 and 59. give the best possible personal appraisal of the standards of care being given to ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES our patients.
These hospital visits have Reviewing the Group Medical Directors Clinical Governance and Safety Report and the continued to allow me to question the quarterly review of serious adverse events hospital management teams on various Health and safety issues and to gather ideas and suggestions Information governance that may have an impact on the future Whistleblowing strategy of both the Committee and the Reviewing key strategic quality areas on a rolling basis Group.
I have learnt about the aspirations for future development within each hospital The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com as well as an enormous amount about the complexity and variety of Spires healthcare business and of the influences to engage with consultants, management COMMITTEE EVALUATION PROCESS that drive change and development in the and more junior clinical staff.
It will also serve In November, the Committee undertook local environment.
to increase the Committees understanding its first formal review as part of the wider of the numerous pressures and challenges Board evaluation process.
The results, which Through my visits I have also been able to that junior colleagues face on a day-to-day were discussed in November, showed that facilitate the greater sharing of knowledge basis and to understand their career they believed the CGSC was working very and best practice across the Group including development needs and opportunities.
well and that it was important to build on a review of specialist internet forum pages.
These longer visits will also allow me to hold the existing programme of hospital visits.
Importantly, I have made a particular request personal meetings with groups of staff up This was subsequently addressed as already to talk to individual patients on a one-to-one to 10 members from different disciplines described.
Committee members also basis at each of my hospital visits and have and of varying seniority to find out from identified the development of appropriate learnt about their experience of being a them about their roles, their understanding risk management structures as being of patient at a Spire Healthcare hospital and of clinical governance and their aspirations particular importance for the Company how they viewed the quality of care they and challenges of working within the Group.
I am pleased to report that As occurred last year, CGSC meetings will be The Committee believes that it has the feedback from the patients I have met scheduled to take place ahead of each Board received sufficient, relevant and reliable has been overwhelmingly positive.
meeting, so that there is a timely flow of information from management and the information on clinical governance matters clinical executive team to enable us to COMMITTEE MEETINGS IN 2016 to the other Directors.
This will aid a Board discharge our responsibilities.
Towards the end of the year, the Committee to Ward approach to clinical governance and took the opportunity to review the format and frequency of its meetings.
In view of also permits the hospital management team the success of our formal hospital visits for to present its own strategic developments Professor Dame Janet Husband DBE our Committee meetings in 2015, it was and challenges and to focus on specific FMedSci, FRCP, FRCR unanimously agreed that more time should aspects of clinical governance relevant to Chair, Clinical Governance and Safety be spent further developing the relationship its own experience.
Committee with hospitals and clinical staff.
To this end, We will continue our planned themed review 16 March 2016 it has been agreed that we will hold six programme in 2016 and the areas of focus meetings in 2016, with five being held in will include patient involvement and clinical hospitals, and each visit will be extended training and recruitment.
over two days instead of one.
This will allow the Committee members more opportunity Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 73
