32 Corporate governance Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit Committee the Committee for the year ended 30 September 2015.
During the year, the Committee members formally met five times and, in line with the terms of reference, focused on protecting the interests of the shareholders with regard to the integrity of the financial reporting, audit, risk management and internal controls.
The Committee receives independent assurance from the Groups Internal Audit function, which is outsourced to Deloitte and also receives updates from the external auditors across a wide range of issues in support of their respective oversight responsibilities.
The Committee is further supported by the Risk Committee.
The Committee comprises myself and three other independent Non-Executive Directors John Barton, Denis Hennequin and Per Utnegaard appointed 1 July 2015.
As Chairman, I have recent and relevant financial experience through my past roles as a CEO and CFO of publicly quoted companies.
The expertise and experience of the members of the Audit Committee is summarised on pages 26 and 27.
Helen Byrne Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also invites the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Director of Business Controls, together with senior representatives from the internal and external auditors, to attend each meeting although, from time to time, the Committee reserves time for discussions without invitees being present.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Committee holds private sessions with the external and internal auditors without management present, and I meet privately with both internal and external auditors.
I provide regular updates to the Board on the key issues discussed at the Committees meetings and will attend the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
During the year the Committee: reviewed the Groups risk assessment, with particular focus on the risks which were deemed to have increased, either in likelihood or impact, along with the supporting action plans to mitigate the risks: reviewed the Groups internal financial control and risk management systems, whistleblowing arrangements and other audit and risk-related arrangements to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the effectiveness of those systems.
It also reviewed a number of detailed reports on the internal controls and risk management processes within the business units: evaluated the performance of both internal and external auditors: reviewed and monitored the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: conducted an external audit tender process and made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the auditors and the audit fee: continued to challenge the assumptions and judgements made by management in determining the half-year and fullyear financial results of the Group and to assess for appropriateness their disclosure in the financial statements: and considered in detail the accounting policy for exceptional and one-off items and supplier rebates.
SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance 33 Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Committee can be found at www.
Risk management and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Committee oversees the risk management process and provides oversight of internal controls on the Boards behalf.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a clear organisational structure with defined authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the Groups business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Executive Directors meet with both operational and finance management on a monthly basis.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a monthly basis and are measured against both budget and reforecasts in these meetings.
The Group maintains Group and regional country level risk registers which outline the key risks faced by the Group including their impacts and likelihood along with relevant mitigating controls and actions.
On an annual basis, regional and country management teams are required to update local risk registers and risk maps to ensure that the key strategic, operational, financial and accounting risks in each location are captured and prioritised according to likelihood and impact and to identify the risk management activities for each risk.
The regional and country risk registers are used in conjunction with input from the Executive Committee to update the Group risk register.
The Risk Committee and Executive Committee review the assessment of risk, as well as current and future mitigation activities, at both Group and regional country level.
A summary of this review is presented to the Committee annually.
The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have the most significant impact on the Groups long-term performance are set out on pages 14 to 17.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls and system of internal control by reviewing the scope of work and reports of the internal and external auditor.
The Committee also reviewed the risk assessment process and Group, regional and country risk registers during the year.
Internal audit Internal audit plays an important role in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls by a programme of reviews based on a continuing assessment of business risk across the Group.
Deloitte acts as internal auditor to the Company and the partner responsible is a permanent member of the Risk Committee and reports directly to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit is in regular dialogue with regional Chief Financial Officers.
Where control deficiencies are noted, Deloitte will perform follow-up reviews and visits.
The Audit Committee meets regularly with Deloitte to review and progress the Groups internal audit plan.
The relevant audit plan and procedures are aimed at addressing financial risk management objectives and providing coverage of the risks identified in the regional and country risk registers.
The internal audit plans have been prepared in accordance with standards promoted by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Committee continues to monitor the effectiveness of internal audit plans in accordance with the Groups ongoing requirements.
The Committee considered the output from the 2015 annual internal audit programme of assurance work, reviewed managements response to the matters raised and ensured that any action was timely and commensurate with its level of risk, whether real or perceived.
There were no significant weaknesses identified in the year that would materially impact the Group as a whole, but a number of recommendations were acted upon within the Group to strengthen in-place controls or risk-mitigating actions.
The Committee remains satisfied that the Groups system of internal controls works well.
The Committee determines the adequacy of the performance of the internal auditor through the quality and depth of findings and recommendations.
During 2015, the Committee also carried out an assessment of Deloitte using questionnaires completed by senior finance personnel both at Group and in country, along with key members of the legal and tax departments.
The survey covered areas such as their position and organisation, purpose and remit, process management, people and knowledge and performance and communication.
The survey indicated overall satisfaction with Deloittes interaction with local teams and their understanding of the business and issues it faces.
The Committee was satisfied with Deloittes responses to the points raised in the survey.
34 Corporate governance Audit Committee report continued Anti-bribery and whistleblowing SSP has a Group-wide Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy to comply with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews its procedures to ensure continued effective compliance in its businesses around the world.
The Groups Whistleblowing Policy provides the framework to encourage and give all employees confidence to blow the whistle and report irregularities.
Employees are encouraged to raise concerns with designated individuals, including the Executive Directors or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors this policy and reviews annually the number of matters reported and the outcome of any investigations.
The Audit Committee will periodically review the Groups policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud, its systems, controls and policies for preventing bribery, its code of corporate conduct and business ethics and its policies for ensuring that the Group complies with relevant regulatory and legal requirements.
The Committee receives updates on bribery and fraud trends and activity in the business, if any, at least twice a year, with individual updates being given to the Committee, as needed, in more serious cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
During the year we also reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups implementation of its anti-bribery and corruption policies.
External audit The effectiveness and the independence of KPMG, the Groups external auditor, are key to ensuring the integrity of the Groups published financial information.
Prior to the commencement of the audit, the Committee reviewed and approved the audit plan to gauge whether it was appropriately focused.
KPMG presented to the Committee its proposed plan of work which was designed to ensure there are no material misstatements in the financial statements.
The Committee considered the accounting, financial control and audit issues reported by the auditors that flowed from the audit work.
At the conclusion of the 2014 audit, the Committee carried out an assessment of KPMG.
This was supported by the results of discussions with individual Committee members and questionnaires completed by senior finance personnel both at Group and in country, along with key members of the legal and tax departments.
The survey covered areas such as communication, the audit approach and scope, the calibre of the audit teams, technical expertise and independence.
The survey indicated overall satisfaction with the services provided by KPMG and the Committee was satisfied with KPMGs responses to the points raised in the survey.
Audit tender The Committee considered the FRC proposals concerning audit tenders and decided to tender the audit during this year as KPMG had been in place since 2006 and the audit partner was required to rotate in the following year.
During the year a Working Committee, nominated by the Committee, undertook the audit tender process.
The team comprised the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Group CEO, the Group CFO and the Group Financial Controller.
At the beginning of the process, we approached four firms to assess their interest in participating in the audit tender and their ability to perform the audit, and to confirm their independence.
Subsequently, three audit firms took part in the tender process.
They were given access to management across the Group to assist them in understanding our business, our finance and accounting function and our accounting policies.
In July 2015, each firm submitted a proposal document that included an audit plan and approach with particular focus on key risks faced by the Group.
Presentations were made to the Working Committee in August and September 2015.
After consideration of each firm with the Committees requirements including proposed approach, experience in the sector and technical capability, the Working Committee nominated KPMG as external auditor.
The Committee carefully considered the results of the audit tender process and supported this conclusion and, in September 2015, recommended to the Board that KPMG be appointed the auditor to the Group.
A proposal to appoint KPMG as external auditor will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2016 AGM.
Auditor independence and non-audit services policy The Audit Committee has adopted a formal policy governing the engagement of the auditor to provide non-audit services, taking into account the relevant ethical guidance on the matter.
This policy is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The policy describes the circumstances in which the auditor may be engaged to undertake non-audit work for the Group.
The Committee oversees compliance with the policy and considers and approves requests to use the auditor for non-audit work.
Recognising that the auditor is best placed to undertake certain work of a non-audit nature, the engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited are subject to formal review by the Committee based on the level of fees involved.
Non-audit services that are preapproved are either routine in nature with a fee that is not significant in the context of the audit, or are audit-related services.
Details of fees payable to the auditor are set out in note 5 on page 73.
In 2015, non-audit fees represented 20% of the audit fee.
KPMG also complied with the independence requirements as set out by the APB Ethical Standards for Reporting Accountants.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on its independence from the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that KPMG has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance 35 Financial reporting As part of our work to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting, the Committee focused on the following during the year: Goodwill and intangible assets: The Group has a significant goodwill balance, representing consideration paid in excess of the fair value of the identified net assets acquired relating to the 2006 acquisition of the SSP business through the purchase of various Compass Group plc subsidiaries by various subsidiaries of SSP Group.
The net assets acquired include intangible assets relating to the Groups own brands and franchise rights in respect of third-party brands which were determined at the date of acquisition.
The Audit Committee recognises that there is a risk that a business can become impaired, for example, due to market changes.
As a result the Group monitors carrying values of goodwill and intangibles to ensure that they are recoverable and any specific indicators of goodwill or intangible impairment are discussed by the Executive Directors with both operational and financial management.
The carrying value of goodwill is subject to impairment testing, on an annual basis.
The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed on the identification of a possible indicator of impairment, to ensure that the carrying values are recoverable.
This testing, including the key assumptions and sensitivity analysis, is reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
After reviewing reports from management and consulting, where necessary, with the external auditor, the Audit Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures provided.
The Audit Committee agrees with management that no impairment needs to be recognised.
Taxation: The Group operates in and is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Management is required to make judgements and estimates in determining the provisions for income taxes and the amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee recognises that management judgement is required in determining the amount and timing of recognition of tax benefits and an assessment of the requirement for provisions against the recognition of such benefits.
The Committee reviewed the Groups tax strategy and received reports and presentations from the Head of Tax highlighting the principal tax risks that the Group faces, the tax strategy and the judgements underpinning the provisions for potential tax liabilities.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the external auditors assessment of provisions for income taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities and, having done so, was satisfied with the key judgements made by management.
Viability statement: The Committee agreed the parameters of, and reviewed a report to support the viability statement as presented on page 17 of the strategic report.
Fair, balanced and understandable financial statements An intrinsic requirement of a groups financial statements is for the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The co-ordination and review of the Group-wide input into the Annual Report is a sizeable exercise performed within an exacting timeframe, which runs alongside the formal audit process undertaken by the auditor.
The process to ensure that the Committee, and then the Board, are satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the document has been underpinned by: guidance issued to contributors at operational level: a verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports: and comprehensive review by the Directors and the senior team.
Ian Dyson Chairman, Audit Committee 25 November 2015
