Directors Report Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committees role is to review the leadership Role The Nomination Committees role is to review needs of the Board and senior management of SSE and to the leadership needs of the Board and senior support the Companys continued ability to recruit and retain management of SSE, to support the Companys continued ability to recruit and retain the level the level and quality of expertise it needs.
and quality of expertise it needs.
The Nomination Committees remit, which is set out in its terms of reference, includes responsibility for: - reviewing the structure, size and composition Members and meetings of the Board and its Committees and making Independent Attended recommendations to the Board on any Members non-Executive Director Member since scheduled desired changes: 1 Lord Smith of Kelvin Committee No Mar 2004 5 5 - reviewing the succession plans for the Chairman Executive Directors and senior management: - making recommendations to the Board on 2 Gregor Alexander No July 2014 4 4 suitable candidates to fill vacancies for both 2 Jeremy Beeton Yes July 2014 4 4 non-Executive and Executive Directors: - ensuring that the procedure for appointing Katie Bickerstaffe Yes Sep 2011 5 5 new Directors is rigorous and transparent 3 Sue Bruce Yes July 2014 2 4 and that appointments are made on merit Richard Gillingwater Yes Sep 2008 5 5 and against objective criteria, including independence and diversity of candidates: 4 Peter Lynas Yes July 2014 3 4 - reviewing potential conflicts of interest of Alistair Phillips-Davies No July 2013 5 5 Directors: and 5 - reviewing the external commitments of the Lady Rice No July 2014 1 1 Directors and the time required to discharge 1 Lord Smith of Kelvin was considered independent on appointment as Chairman.
2 The membership of the Committee changed to that of the full Board on 17 July 2014.
3 Sue Bruce was unable to attend two Committee meetings during the year.
One due to her roles as Counting Officer for Composition Edinburgh Constituencies and Depute Counting Officer for Scotland for the Referendum.
These roles were clarified prior to her appointment as non-Executive Director and the Board understood that any meetings conflicting with this The membership of the Nomination Committee role would result in non attendance.
The second meeting was not attended due to unforeseen health circumstances.
was refreshed during the year to include all 4 Peter Lynas was unable to attend one Committee meeting during the year due to a pre-determined commitment through his executive role with BAE Systems.
This was disclosed and acknowledged by the Board prior to appointment.
The table opposite 5 Lady Rice retired from the Board on 17 July 2014. details the membership and meeting attendance for the year.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Introduction Following the changes outlined above, the There have been five meetings of the Nomination Board now comprises the Chairman, Deputy Activities in 2014 15 Committee during the year which have considered Chairman and Senior Independent Director, The Nomination Committee had five meetings various changes to the membership of the Board two Executive Directors and four nonduring the year.
The business covered at the and its Committees.
meetings included the following: - the search for a new Chairman as successor We welcomed Peter Lynas to the Board on 1 July In keeping with best practice a full internal to Lord Smith of Kelvin: 2014 upon his appointment as a non-Executive Board evaluation was carried out during the - the renewal of the letter of appointment for Director and he has chaired the Audit year, which included a review of all Board Lord Smith of Kelvin as non-Executive Committee since 17 July 2014.
I am pleased to confirm it Director and Chairman, until stepping down concluded that we operate effectively and following the AGM in July 2015: Following the AGM on 17 July 2014 Lady Rice will ensure that this continues, in our role to - a review of any declared or potential conflicts and Thomas Thune Andersen both stepped support the leadership needs of the Company.
of interests of the Directors: down from the Board, and the Nomination - a review of Board Committee membership, Committee advised on the appointment of Going forward in 2015 16 the Nomination including changes in Chairmanship for the Chairmen for the Remuneration Committee Committee continues work to refresh the Audit, Remuneration and Safety, Health and and the Safety, Health and Environment Board.
We will also continue to review Environment Advisory Committee: Advisory Committee.
Richard Gillingwater membership of the Board Committees, with - the search for a new non-Executive Director and Jeremy Beeton assumed these particular regard to the change in Chairman.
as part of the ongoing review of succession roles respectively.
and refreshment of the Board: - a review of independence of all the nonIn November 2014 Richard Gillingwaters Lord Smith of Kelvin Executive Directors: and appointment as Deputy Chairman was Chairman of the Nomination Committee - the update and approval of changes in announced along with his planned succession Executive Committee membership.
to Chairman: now due to take place in July 2015.
Full details surrounding the succession and the Succession planning steps taken by the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee aims to plan ahead to ensure full independence are explained for changes in Board membership and takes in this report.
responsibility for the programme to refresh Board membership and ensure the skills, knowledge and experience is both maintained and appropriate.
Before a Board appointment is made, the will be independent on appointment in July 2015 Committee, with each member abstaining from Nomination Committee evaluates the skills, and in anticipation of his new role as Chairman, their own evaluation.
Lord Smith of Kelvin was knowledge and experience of the Board to he will be stepping down from his two major considered independent on appointment as ensure that any new appointment complements non-executive roles at Hiscox Ltd and Wm Chairman in 2005 and this remains the view of these qualities.
Candidates from a wide Morrisons Supermarkets plc.
the Nomination Committee until his succession range of backgrounds are considered and in July 2015. appointments are made on merit, with due Following confirmation that the change in regard given to the benefits of diversity on Chairman is to take place immediately following Diversity the Board, including gender.
SSEs AGM in July 2015, the Nomination The Nomination Committee reviews the diversity Committee has been focused on searching for within the organisation as a whole including the The selection process uses the services of a a new non-Executive Director who could take talent management pipeline and that of senior professional search firm specialising in Boardon the role of Senior Independent Director.
The management in line with Company policy.
level recruitment and generally involves process is well advanced and is being carried Regular updates have been provided to both interviews with a number of candidates.
out in conjunction with Sam Allen Associates.
the Board and the Executive Committee during The Board currently expects to announce the the year, surrounding the ongoing work that is When the Nomination Committee deals with appointment of a new non-Executive Director being carried out on diversity and inclusion within any matter concerning the Chairmanship of the around the time of the AGM.
An action programme is currently Board another non-Executive Director, chosen Richard Gillingwater will step down from the being developed to review areas such as fair by the remaining members, chairs the meeting.
Audit Committee and from his position as recruitment and explore the potential for targets Members of the Nomination Committee do Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
within each business area to increase diversity.
not take part in discussions when their own In light of Katie Bickerstaffes existing role and The Boards statement on diversity and an performance or their continued appointment experience relating to Remuneration matters, it overview of the companys policy on diversity is being considered.
is the view of the Nomination Committee that and equality are both set out on the SSE website.
she is the preferred candidate to take on the role Further details can be found on page 64 of the The Nomination Committee also reviews of Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee.
senior management succession planning and Katie Bickerstaffe was not involved in any of the leadership needs in the course of its work taking discussions surrounding this appointment.
Board diversity into account the risks and opportunities facing The recommendation of the Davies Report the Company, and from this identifies the skills The changes outlined above, have been on Women on Boards is that FTSE 100 Boards and expertise required.
The succession plans for approved by the Board and will take effect should aim for a minimum of 25% female management positions are reviewed to ensure after the AGM.
The composition of the Board representation by 2015.
Female representation roles are refreshed with the best candidates, Committees will remain under review and be on the SSE Board is currently in line with this taking account of a range of factors such as changed as necessary to ensure compliance recommendation.
The Company is committed background, experience, qualifications and with the Code.
to the approach on diversity set out in the Davies gender.
The Companys talent management Report, and will continue to take diversity into programme helps provide a robust succession Independence account for future Board appointments whilst process and development plans for individuals The independence of non-Executive recruiting on merit.
An overview of the diversity to assist with career aspirations.
membership was considered and reviewed within the SSE Board is detailed below.
at the January meeting of the Nomination Board succession in 2014 15 and 2015 16 The Chairmans succession was conducted independently, with no participation from Membership diversity Lord Smith of Kelvin throughout the process.
All discussions concerning the appointment Board diversity, by age Board diversity, by sector were chaired by Katie Bickerstaffe and Richard Gillingwater was absent from those relating to 45-54 years old 3 Utilities 2 55-64 years old 4 Banking 1 his candidacy.
Sam Allen Associates, an external 65-74 years old 1 Corporate finance 1 search agency with no other connection to the Major projects 1 Company, conducted an extensive benchmarking Retail 1 process of persons meeting the desired criteria as Public sector 1 agreed by the Nomination Committee, which Defence 1 included, among other things, sector experience, knowledge of Government and regulation and chairing experience.
Board diversity, by gender Length of tenure Following deliberation, it was the unanimous view of the Nomination Committee that the Male 6 0-3 years 2 Female 2 3-6 years 2 extensive, in-depth business knowledge, 6-9 years 1 experience of Government, regulation and 9 years 3 chairing two significant companies, coupled with the continuity that Richard Gillingwater would bring to the position, made him the preferred candidate and this was in the best interests of the Company.
It is the view of the Nomination Committee that Richard Gillingwater 83
