Corporate governance report 4.1 Introduction from Garry Watts, 4.2 Corporate governance and compliance with the Code Deputy Chairman The Stagecoach Group is committed to ensuring that it operates with the The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups activities high standards of corporate governance that are expected of a group with and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance practices shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
This introduction to the within the Group.
This section 4 of the Annual Report sets out Stagecoach Groups corporate governance report is an opportunity to look back at the Groups corporate governance arrangements.
Taken together with the Directors Report, it includes the disclosures recommended by the Financial year 2014 15, at the progress that has been made with the governance of the Reporting Council FRC UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and Group and to look forward to the governance challenges for the future.
describes how the principles of good corporate governance that are set out in The current board structure has been in place since May 2013.
During the the Code have been applied.
In line with best practice, separate reports are year, Martin Griffiths and Ross Paterson have driven the Group in the strategic provided from each of the Audit, Nomination, Health, Safety and direction agreed by the Board.
In particular, the Group has extended the reach Environmental and Remuneration Committees.
com business into mainland Europe, consolidated the recent expansion in North America and has successfully bid for the East The Code issued in September 2012 applied to the Companys financial year Coast rail franchise.
The Directors believe that throughout the year ended 30 April 2015 the Group complied with all of the provisions of the A formal division of responsibilities is in place, which requires me, as the Code.
A copy of the Code is available at Deputy Chairman, to promote the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and particularly at Board level.
pdf Sir Brian Souter continues as the Groups Chairman and is responsible for the conduct of the Board as a whole.
I believe that the Board remains balanced The FRC issued a new edition of the Code in September 2014 the and effective.
In his position as Chairman, the Board is able to draw on the September 2014 Code, which applies to accounting periods beginning on depth of experience of Sir Brian while he has ensured that the executive or after 1 October 2014.
The Group will report on its compliance with the directors have been given the space to manage the business.
I am satisfied provisions of the September 2014 Code in its Annual Report for the year that the views of all of the Directors are heard and given due weight and that ending 30 April 2016.
In applying the September 2014 Code, we expect to: our corporate governance procedures are appropriate for the Group.
Provide a viability statement that states, with qualifications if The Board focuses on the Groups strategy and seeks to understand the risks appropriate, that the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the to the Group and the markets that it operates in.
We aim to achieve Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due appropriate returns for our shareholders, balanced against an appropriate over a specified period.
We expect to explain in the annual report how we level of risk and to look ahead to where we believe opportunities are going to have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period we have done arise and to anticipate and address the challenges that the business faces.
I so and why we consider that period appropriate.
believe that good governance is central to achieving these aims for the Explain any actions that have been or are being taken to remedy any business as a whole and to ensure that our management team is properly significant failings or weaknesses identified in reviewing risk management challenged to meet the Groups objectives.
In the past year, the Board has discussed the franchise opportunities available in the rail sector and the balance of the Group between its rail and bus Review our assessment and description of principal risks facing the Group businesses.
The Board recognises and has discussed in some detail the risks to to ensure consistency with the recommendations of the September 2014 the business in the changing political landscape.
In this more uncertain Code.
political environment, the executive members of the Board have been The Group also complies with the corporate governance requirements of the challenged to anticipate and plan for potential changes.
I am confident that Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, and Disclosure and Transparency the corporate governance structure of the Board provides a sound platform Rules.
for this kind of robust discussion.
4.3 Composition of the Board The composition of the Board is as follows: Date of Independent appointment Nonif later than Executive Other Garry Watts 1 May 2010 Chairman Director Director Deputy Chairman Sir Brian Souter 24 June 2015 Chairman Gregor Alexander Non-Executive Director Sir Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director Helen Mahy Non-Executive Director Garry Watts Senior Independent Director & Deputy Chairman Phil White Non-Executive Director Will Whitehorn Non-Executive Director Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director Martin Griffiths Chief Executive Ross Paterson Finance Director Stagecoach Group plc | page 29 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 30 Corporate governance report treated as independent, the balance of the Executive and Non-Executive 4.4 Division of responsibilities Directors complies with the recommendations of the Code.
Sir Brian Souter was the Chief Executive of the Group until 1 May 2013.
When In recognition of the factors suggested by the Code for determining Sir Brian became the Chairman of the Group the Board appointed Garry Watts independence, Sir Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration to the role of Deputy Chairman.
The split of the Chairmans, Deputy Chairmans Committee or the Audit Committee.
and Chief Executives responsibilities has been agreed in writing and has been All of the Directors stand for election or re-election at each annual general approved by the Board.
The Deputy Chairman reports to the Chairman and to meeting of the Company.
the Board and has responsibility for ensuring proper corporate governance.
The Deputy Chairmans role includes ensuring that the Boards consideration of matters is in the best interests of the Group and unaffected by conflicts of 4.6 Operation of the Board interest.
No executives report directly to the Deputy Chairman.
The Board generally meets six times each year.
Additional meetings of the The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board and for ensuring that Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled Board meetings, the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next scheduled meeting.
determination of the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The In addition to the formal meetings of the Board and its Committees, the Deputy Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board determines the Directors are in more frequent but less formal contact with each other and with Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives with the overall success of the Groups management on a range of matters.
the Group in mind and to provide guidance in this regard to the Chairman.
The The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Chief Executive is responsible for proposing and developing that strategy with Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, led support and guidance from the Chairman.
The Chief Executive is responsible by the Deputy Chairman, meet without the Chairman at least annually.
for the running of the Groups business and reports to the Chairman and to the All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of the Board directly.
All other members of the executive management team report Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary and may either directly or indirectly to the Chief Executive.
take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups expense Garry Watts, as well as being Deputy Chairman, is the Groups Senior where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter which contact through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Board failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently 4.5 Board independence and balance such training, briefings and site visits as are considered necessary to keep The Directors biographies appear in section 2 of this Annual Report and abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
The Chairman reviews the illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board Directors training and development needs in conjunction with the Company to lead and control the Group.
The Board delegates the operational Secretary.
Training can encompass health, safety, environmental, social and management of the Group to the Chief Executive and Finance Director governance matters.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an independent The number of full Board meetings during the year was six.
The full Board viewpoint and create an overall balance.
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of experience that ensures no one typically meets once a year at an operational location.
Regular communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors between meetings to director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
ensure all directors are well informed on strategic and operational issues.
The The Code suggests that independent non-executive directors should make up Board met at the Groups Northampton bus depot in October 2014, giving the at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Throughout the period Board the opportunity to meet the local management team and to receive from 1 May 2014 to 30 April 2015, the Board considers that it complied with briefings on recent operational changes in the area.
The April 2015 Board this Code requirement.
The current position is that two thirds of the Board meeting was combined with a Group management conference, allowing the members excluding the Chairman are independent.
Board members to gain a greater insight into the strategies being pursued by In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board the Groups businesses and to meet a wide range of managers from throughout considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the the Group.
In December 2014, the Health, Safety and Environmental following questions: Committee of the Board visited the Groups bus operations in West Scotland, Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive where they were able to see the UK Bus division training and safety processes in management?
The visit also included a briefing on the bio fuel project at Kilmarnock bus depot and gave the members of the Committee the opportunity to discuss Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and alternative fuel technologies in development across the Group and the wider viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
bus industry with the management team.
Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the Board The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with principal and its Committees?
responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment policy, to Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for the approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or disposals.
Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy and The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board papers executive managements running of the business?
distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the Board considered Sir Ewan Brown, one of the six independent Non-Executive Directors, has during the year ended 30 April 2015 included: served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble The outcome of the Groups bids for the operation of the Docklands Light Grossart, which has from time to time provided advice to the Company.
The Railway, and Thameslink, Southern and Great Northern franchises and the Company recognises and understands investor concerns over longer-serving submission of the bid to operate the East Coast Main Line franchise non-executive directors but continues to regard Sir Ewan Brown as Planning for provision of transport services to the 2014 Commonwealth independent.
Sir Ewan Browns long association with the Group and the sound Games and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed enables Development of megabus.
com services in mainland Europe him to provide a robust and effective challenge to management.
The Board Group strategy and development opportunities believes that Sir Ewan Browns length of service enhances his effectiveness as a non-executive director and that he remains independent in character and Political and regulatory developments and potential developments, including judgement.
Six of the nine members of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are the Quality Contract proposals in North East England and proposed considered by the Board to be independent.
Even were Sir Ewan Brown not devolution of transport regulatory powers to regional authorities page 30 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 31 Impact of reduction in global oil prices 4.9 Composition of Committees Amendment to the terms for the operation of the South West Trains The current composition of the various Board Committees is summarised franchise below: The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under review Audit Committee and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve the Number of members of Committee: 3 Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better All members are independent non-executive directors.
control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
Chairman and designated member with recent Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where any and relevant financial experience director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the running of Gregor Alexander the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the minutes.
It Other members is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the director is asked to Helen Mahy provide a written statement to the Chairman of any concerns leading to his or her resignation.
Phil White 4.7 Operational management of the Group Nomination Committee The Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly faceNumber of members of Committee: 4 to-face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
There are All members are independent non-executive directors.
four principal operating divisions: Chairman UK Bus London : headed by a managing director Garry Watts UK Bus regional operations : headed by a managing director Other members North America: headed by a chief operating officer Sir Ewan Brown Helen Mahy UK Rail: headed by the Group Chief Executive Will Whitehorn Each division comprises a number of autonomous business units, each headed Remuneration Committee by a chairman or managing director who is responsible for the day-today performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or managing director is Number of members of Committee: 4 supported by his or her own management teams.
All members are independent non-executive directors.
Two of the joint ventures in which the Group has an interest, Virgin Rail Group Chairman and Twin America LLC, are managed independently of the Group.
Each is Phil White headed by its own chief executive or managing director.
The Group has two Other members representatives on the Board of Virgin Rail Group and three representatives on Gregor Alexander the Board of Twin America LLC.
The other trading joint venture in which the Garry Watts Group has an interest, Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, has a joint board.
The Will Whitehorn Group is responsible for the day-to-day management of that business.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee 4.8 Performance evaluation Number of members of Committee: 5 The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the Chairman Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Boards Helen Mahy assessment of the performance of the Chairman is co-ordinated by the Other members Deputy Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Non-Executive Martin Griffiths Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The NonAnn Gloag Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The Phil White Chairman obtains feedback from each individual Director on the performance Will Whitehorn of the Board and other Board members.
The Deputy Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance of the Chairman.
A questionnaire-based process is undertaken to assess the performance of 4.10 Reports from the Committees each of the Boards committees.
Reports from each of the Committees of the Board are set out in sections 5 to 8 of this Annual Report.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its committees.
The Code recommends board performance evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Board appointed Margaret Exley of SCT Consultants to facilitate its evaluation in the year ended 30 April 2014 and details of the review were included in the 2014 Annual Report.
The 2015 evaluation was not externally facilitated but the Board intends to continue to use external facilitation of its performance evaluation no less frequently than every third year.
The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective and constructive manner.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 31 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 32 Corporate governance report a separate resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially 4.11 Individual director participation at separate issue.
Details of all proxy votes lodged for and against, or withheld, meetings in respect of each resolution of the 2014 Annual General Meeting were The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of published on the Groups website at committees and the Annual General Meeting by directors during the year http: www.
aspx ended 30 April 2015: The Group intends to undertake a poll as opposed to a show of hands on PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration each resolution put to the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
All votes cast for or IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee against each resolution, whether by proxy or in person at the meeting, will be aggregated and the results will be reported on the Groups website.
Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible The Company and its registrars have established procedures to ensure that Sir Brian Souter 6 6 n a n a n a n a votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Martin Griffiths 6 6 n a n a n a n a 4.13 Risk management Gregor Alexander 6 6 3 3 3 3 The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Sir Ewan Brown 6 6 n a n a n a n a the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process.
Ann Gloag 6 6 n a n a n a n a The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised in Helen Mahy 6 6 3 3 n a n a section 1.4.
The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of Ross Paterson 6 6 n a n a n a n a business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some Garry Watts 6 6 n a n a 3 3 cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and Phil White 6 6 3 3 3 3 manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its Will Whitehorn 6 6 n a n a 3 3 effectiveness.
The Groups system cannot provide absolute assurance but is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any Health, Safety significant risks or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with PARTICIPATION and Environmental Nomination Annual General appropriately.
The Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and IN MEETINGS Committee Committee Meeting certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each identified Sir Brian Souter n a n a n a n a 1 1 business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is Martin Griffiths 4 4 n a n a 1 1 appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated Gregor Alexander n a n a n a n a 1 1 by the Group.
Sir Ewan Brown n a n a 1 1 1 1 For those businesses that have been part of the Group for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2015, the Groups risk management process was Ann Gloag 4 4 n a n a 1 1 embedded throughout the businesses for that year and up to the date of the Helen Mahy 4 4 1 1 1 1 approval of this report.
The Group begun operating the Virgin Trains East Coast Ross Paterson n a n a n a n a 1 1 rail franchise on 1 March 2015 and acquired the train operating company, East Coast Main Line Company Limited, at that time.
The Group is continuing its Garry Watts n a n a 1 1 1 1 review of the risk management and internal control environment at East Coast Phil White 3 4 n a n a 1 1 Main Line Company Limited and is embedding the Groups own risk management process within that business.
Will Whitehorn 4 4 1 1 1 1 The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control environment and such reviews are 4.12 Relations with shareholders supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The The Board endeavours to present a fair, balanced and understandable Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are assessment of the Groups position and prospects in communications with appropriately managed.
The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control major institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate the financial media.
The Board believes that it is important that these The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations that unit.
to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
Written ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division responses are given to letters or e-mails received from shareholders.
The maintaining a separate risk profile.
annual report is published in hard copy and on the Groups website.
The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through and managed by Deloitte LLP, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The All shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the Annual General monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims to ensure that all improving, where possible, the Groups risk management process in the the Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer context of the Groups overall goals.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are the Groups principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose recommended by the external auditors.
page 32 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 33 The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover joint statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key ventures, but the Group maintains an overview of joint ventures' business risk finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial management processes through representation on the boards and in the case reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such of Virgin Rail Group, its audit committee.
representatives also meet regularly with representatives of joint ventures to A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each ensure that they follow appropriate risk management procedures.
business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that 4.14 Internal control the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance the system of risk management and internal control of the Group during the function.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by the an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a panel completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each business management to explain.
units management team, before the overall Group budget is approved by The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each the Board.
business unit to the management accounts received during the year and reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income obtains explanations for any material differences.
statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each business management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various levels of a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and review by the Group Finance function.
business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an individual third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where independent from those individuals who were responsible for preparing significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and safety, the financial statements.
The review includes checking internal treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and consistency, consistency with other statements, consistency with internal competition policy.
accounting records and arithmetical accuracy.
a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
The Audit Committee receives reports from joint control over the activities of joint ventures through Stagecoach management and the external auditors on significant judgements, representation on the boards of the entities together with regular contact changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and other between Stagecoach management and the management of the relevant pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of all material business units are subject to a performance management appraisal system, which covers the Groups external audit.
senior management based on agreed financial and other performance The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
The objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
Group auditors review the audit work papers for material joint ventures that significant emphasis on cash flow management.
Bank balances are are audited by a different firm of auditors.
reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a fourweekly basis.
4.16 Pension schemes reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters including The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates fund managers.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK scheme of whom treasury management policies and procedures.
two are employee representatives nominated by the members on a regional defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, basis and three are pensioner trustees.
The chairman of the trustees of the including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as a acquired or divested.
fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures appropriate Funds investment council.
He also sits independently as an elected to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least annually by the representative of all railway employers on the Board of the Railways Pension management of each business confirming that they have reviewed the Scheme and is a past Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group and UK Bus executives.
a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and which is subject to regular monitoring.
A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
This Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Sir Ewan Brown, and also an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy with training and compliance comprises one executive director and other members of senior management.
The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters Any control weaknesses that these procedures identify are monitored and affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups addressed in the normal course of business.
None of the weaknesses shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and identified in the year to 30 April 2015 have resulted in any material losses, propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, Annual Report.
risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the related administration for each of the employee pension schemes of the 4.15 Process for preparing consolidated financial Group.
statements The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The By order of the Board key features of these internal control and risk management systems are: The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks on internal financial controls periodically.
Management regularly monitors and considers developments in Mike Vaux accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where Company Secretary appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial 24 June 2015 Stagecoach Group plc | page 33
