St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 58 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report The Committee continues to focus on matters important by virtue of size, complexity, level of judgement required or impact on the Financial Statements.
IAN BULL Chairman of the Audit Committee Meetings attended inyear out of maximum % attended Committee member Member since possible in year 1 Ian Bull Sep 2014 3 3 100% Kay Chaldecott Dec 2012 3 3 100% Lesley James Oct 2009 3 3 100% Richard Mully Sep 2013 3 3 100% 2 John Salmon Oct 2005 1 1 100% th 1 Appointed Chairman of the Committee with effect from 27 March 2015. th 2 Retired from the Board and as Chairman of the Committee on 27 March 2015.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDEES BY INVITATION Chairman Principal role Bill Shannon Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and Group Finance Director audit processes and the development and maintenance of st st Mike Dunn 1 December 2015 to 31 May 2015 sound systems of risk management and internal control.
th Rob Hudson from 28 September 2015 Key activities in 2014 15 Non-executive director Considered Balance Sheet recognition of the Groups Simon Clarke interest in New Covent Garden Market and prior Group Financial Controller year restatements.
Andy Taylor Examined changes to the UK Corporate Governance Internal Audit Manager Code the Code on risk management and assessed how these would be implemented.
David Edwards Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee Contributed towards a smooth transition following the appointment of a new Group Finance Director and on the Tanya Stote change of Committee Chairman.
External auditor Representatives from Deloitte Areas of focus for 2015 16 External valuers Competitive tender for the external auditor appointment to be commenced.
Representatives from Cushman & Wakefield and JonesLang LaSalle Continuing enhancements to the Groups risk assurance framework.
External tax advisors Representatives from PwC Ongoing monitoring of cyber-security and the robustness of the Groups preventative procedures.
Independent external review of the Internal Audit function.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 59 245 4699 100164 165176 As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present The Committee continues to focus on those matters it th our report for the financial year ended 30 November 2015. considers to be important by virtue of their size, complexity, The report is intended to provide meaningful insight into the level of judgement required or impact on the Financial Committees activities in the year and sets out how we have Statements.
In 2015 these included accounting for the funds performed our responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, received from M&G in relation to the student accommodation internal control and risk management and in relation to the at Bay Campus, Swansea University and associated external auditor, Deloitte.
restatements, and Balance Sheet recognition in respect of the Groups interest at New Covent Garden Market.
These and the Following the appointments of Cushman & Wakefield, formerly other issues considered by the Committee during the year, DTZ, external valuers and PwC tax compliance advisors in and the actions taken to address them, are detailed within 2014, 2015 was another key year for the Committee.
Group Finance Director, Rob Hudson, was appointed in September 2015 and the Committee has spent time helping As I approach the anniversary of my appointment as to ensure a smooth transition from Robs predecessor.
Committee Chairman I would like to thank both my fellow As Committee Chairman I have also discussed with Rob Committee members and the management team for their his initial priorities and look forward to working with and continued support and commitment to ensuring effective supporting him as he settles into his role.
governance through the Committees activities.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank John Salmon for the We have made good progress to further reduce the level insight, direction and focus that he provided over the years of non-audit fees payable to Deloitte, our external auditor.
asCommittee Chairman and to wish him well for the future.
Amounts paid to Deloitte in the year for non-audit services represented 31% of the fees paid for audit and audit-related I hope that the following report provides a useful guide assurance services.
The Committee has approved the totheactivities of the Committee during the year.
continued engagement of Deloitte Real Estate for the provision of property consulting services in respect of a long-term development project, subject to a cap on fees.
The tendering of external audit arrangements has been the Ian Bull subject of considerable debate in recent years, both at a Chairman of the Audit Committee national and European level.
Noting the requirements on audit st 1 February 2016 tendering set out in the Code, the Competition and Markets Authority Order and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills proposals to implement the EUs June 2014 Audit Directive and Regulation, the Committee has agreed that a competitive tender process be commenced during 2016 in readiness for the external audit for the year ending th 30 November 2017.
In terms of risk, the Committee has agreed with management that activity should continue to focus on enhancing the risk management culture across the business, with individual ownership of risks and associated mitigating actions.
This in turn should further strengthen the linkage between operational risk management and risk reporting, both internally and externally, with focus being given to those areas of highest risk.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 60 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Committee membership Activities of the Committee during the year All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Reporting directors, with each bringing broad financial and commercial The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the experience at senior levels across a range of industries.
Groups financial reporting is to review with both management The Committees composition is kept under review by the and the external auditor the integrity of the Half Year and Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making Annual Financial Statements with particular focus on: recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies and practices: In March 2015 John Salmon retired as Committee Chairman and was replaced by Ian Bull, Chief Financial Officer of Ladbrokes plc.
material areas in which significant judgements have been Ian is considered to have significant, recent andrelevant financial applied or where significant financial issues have been experience as required by the Code.
discussed with the external auditor: All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial to ensure that they have an understanding of the principles of, reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements, such as statements on viability and and recent developments in, financial reporting, key aspects of going concern: and the Companys accounting policies and judgements, and internal control and risk management arrangements, as well as the whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced role of the internal and external auditors.
Ongoing training is and understandable and provides the information necessary undertaken as required.
for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
How the Committee operates Accounting policies and practices The Committee met three times during the year as part of its The Committee received reports from management in standard schedule of meetings.
No supplementary meetings relation to the continuing appropriateness of accounting were necessary in the year.
Meetings of the Committee policies applied by the Group and any changes required generally take place just prior to a Board meeting to maximise asaconsequence of the implementation of new the efficiency of interaction with the Board and the Committee accounting standards.
Chairman reports to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance During the year the Group was required to adopt a number to the Board in the conduct of its work.
of new accounting standards including IFRS 10 Consolidated Representatives from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, are Financial Statements, which replaced SIC 12 Consolidation invited to each meeting together with other Board members, Special Purpose Entities in its entirety and changed the the Group Financial Controller, the Internal Audit Manager and accounting treatment to be applied in respect of VSM Estates the Company Secretary.
Representatives from both Cushman Holdings Ltd. Whilst this entity is jointly owned with VINCI & Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle JLL, the external valuers, Investments Ltd, under the funding agreement the Group are invited to attend meetings at which the half year and annual obtains the majority of benefits of the entity and also retains results are considered by the Committee.
Representatives from the majority of the residual risks.
This entity was previously the Groups tax compliance advisor, PwC, are invited to attend consolidated under SIC 12, however the conditions for meetings as appropriate.
consolidation in IFRS 10 do not exist and, as such, the entity is now required to be accounted for using the equity method.
At least once a year, immediately following a Committee meeting, the Committee meets separately with the external audit Following consideration and discussions with Deloitte, the engagement partner and with the Internal Audit Manager to Committee was satisfied that theaccounting policies and give them the opportunity to discuss matters without executive related disclosure in this Annual Report was appropriate.
The Committee Chairman also Accounting policiesPages 110 to 118 holds separate one to one meetings with the Group Finance Director, the Internal Audit Manager and with Deloitte, typically Significant judgements and financial issues ahead of Committee meetings, in order to better understand the The Committee pays particular attention to matters it issues and areas of concerns and to make sure adequate time is considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the devoted to these matters at the subsequent meeting.
Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application to the Group Financial The Committee has direct access to the Internal Audit Manager, Statements.
The significant financial issues considered by the the external audit engagement partner and the external valuers Committee in relation to the 2015 Financial Statements, and outside formal Committee meetings.
Whilst permitted to do so, how these were addressed, are outlined on pages 61 and 62. no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, The Committee discussed these with the external auditor and, sought outside professional advice beyond that which was where appropriate, how these were addressed by Deloittes provided directly to the Committee during the financial year.
In late 2015 the Committees performance was reviewed Independent Auditors ReportPages 100 to 105 internally by way of a questionnaire which was completed by all members of the Committee, the Groups senior management and external audit engagement partner.
The feedback received will be considered as part of the Board performance review meeting in March 2016.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 61 245 4699 100164 165176 Significant issue Work undertaken by and conclusion of Committee The Committee adopts a formal approach by which the valuation process, methodology, Valuation of investment property assumptions and outcomes are reviewed and robustly challenged.
This includes separate The independent valuation of St. Modwens review and scrutiny by both management and the Committee, with members of the Committee investment property is a key determinant of discussing the valuations both prior to and at Committee meetings in January and June.
It also the Groups Balance Sheet and performance includes the external auditor which is assisted by its own specialist team of chartered surveyors as well as executive variable remuneration.
who are familiar with the valuation approach and UK property market.
Although the portfolio valuation is conducted The external auditor has direct access to the Groups valuers and their remit extends to externally by independent valuers, the nature investigating and confirming that no undue influence has been exerted by management in of valuation estimates is inherently subjective relation to the valuations.
The external auditor reviewed the valuations and process and and requires significant judgements and reported its findings to the Committee.
assumptions to be made by the valuers.
These include market comparable yields, Both Cushman & Wakefield formerly DTZ and JLL submit their valuation reports to the estimates in relation to future rental income, Committee as part of the half year and full year results process.
Both valuers were asked to void periods, purchaser costs, together with attend and present to the Committee their valuation reports and highlight any significant remediation and other costs to complete, judgements made or disagreements between themselves and management: there were none.
some of which require management input.
With the background of continued strength in the property market, the Committee discussed in detail the rationale underlying significant increases to valuations, and considered these on a case-by-case basis as appropriate.
Based on the degree of oversight and challenge applied to the valuation process, the Committee concluded that the valuation as a whole had each been conducted appropriately, independently and in accordance with the valuers professional standards.
The Committee reviewed managements assessment as to whether any provision was required Valuation of inventory against the carrying value of inventory, either at Group level or within any joint venture The Groups inventory, comprising property arrangements.
The assessment process undertaken to determine net realisable value was held for sale, property under development considered by the Committee, which included ongoing monitoring by management as well as commenced with a view to sale and land detailed reviews at both the half and full year.
External valuations were also provided by the under option, is of significant value.
external valuers for certain sites, typically new build units not yet sold.
All inventory is carried at the lower of cost and The Committee concluded that the judgements and estimates made by management were in net realisable value and appropriate line with Group policy, reasonable and appropriate.
allowances are made for remediation and other costs to complete.
For the majority of inventories held management rely on their own internal procedures for assessing the carrying value of inventory.
New Covent Garden Market The Committee reviewed the decision for recognition in the year, and the associated accounting treatment.
2015 saw the culmination of several years of development activity resulting in this project In considering the satisfaction of the requirements for unconditional contract status, and achieving unconditional status in April 2015 resulting Balance Sheet recognition, the Committee noted: and being included on the Balance Sheet.
documentation and approval of a section 106 agreement together with entry into statutory Therecognition comprised the Groups roads and services agreements: interest in the value of the 19 acres of expiry of the subsequent judicial review period: surplusland as an asset and the cost of delivery of a Deed of Grant with the US Embassy to provide a road from the Embassy on procuring the 500,000 sq ft new market surplus Covent Garden Market Authority CGMA land: facilities as a liability.
formal issue of planning consent and confirmation of acceptability from CGMA and VINCI As with the rest of our portfolio, significant St. Modwen: and judgements and assumptions were made by independent certification that the market can be procured within CGMAs affordability limit.
JLL, our independent valuers of this project, in arriving at the valuation, some of which The Committee also considered: required management input.
accounting for the acquisition of the interest in land, including reviewing with both JLL and management the valuation assumptions for the 19 acres of surplus land, enabling costs and overage, and the costs of procuring the new market facilities: measurement of the liability to procure the new market facilities: and the classification of the Groups interest in the surplus land as investment property.
The Committee concluded and Deloitte concurred that the recognition and accounting treatment adopted was appropriate.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 62 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Activities of the Committee during the year continued Significant issue Work undertaken by and conclusion of Committee Bay Campus, Swansea University During the year, following receipt of the first rental income, further consideration was given to the revenue streams associated with the first two phases of student accommodation at the Bay In respect of the Bay Campus development at Campus.
Due to the fixed subject only to annual RPI adjustment nature of the Groups annual Swansea University, the Committee continued rental payments to M&G, meaning that the Group retains exposure both positive and negative to monitor the appropriateness of the to all variability in net rentals generated from the properties, it was concluded that the accounting treatment in respect of revenue transaction was more appropriately accounted for as a finance lease arrangement, rather than streams in respect of the academic facilities at as the sale of 50% of the assets.
Consequently the 2014 results and opening Balance Sheet have been restated to reflect The Committee also reviewed the accounting recognition by the Group of the following elements: for the funds received from M&G in relation to the student accommodation at the the whole rather than 50% of the property interest in the student accommodation: Campus and, as part of the valuation of to account for the amounts due to M&G as a finance lease liability: investment properties, considered the to eliminate the construction contract accounting recognised in respect of the proportion of valuation of the Groups interests in the the development work performed on these sites that was funded by M&G: and student accommodation facilities.
to revalue the site during the course of construction.
Both the Committee and Deloitte agreed that the accounting for the project, including the revised treatment applied to the student accommodation, was appropriate.
Details of the restatement are set out in the Accounting Policies note on pages 117 and 118.
Tax provisions Based on reports from management, Deloitte and PwC the Groups tax compliance advisor, the Committee considered the individual judgements made by management in respect of tax As a property group, tax and its treatment is provisions and was satisfied that the resultant level of tax provisioning at both the full year and often an integral part of transactions half year remained appropriate.
The outcomes of tax treatments are recognised by the Group Further disclosure on taxation is set out in Note 5 to the Group Financial Statements, page 128 to the extent the outcome is reasonably and the Accounting Policies note on page 116. certain.
Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, or new tax regulation is introduced, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based on the information available at the reporting date.
Viability and going concern The Committee provides advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying both the going concern statement and the new, longer-term viability statement.
As both statements rely on forecasts, the Committee considered the assumptions and judgements applied by management in relation to the timing of receipt and payment cash flows, the ongoing availability of funding and covenant compliance.
The Committee also reviewed the sensitivity analysis prepared by management, including the assumptions made.
The Committee concluded that it remains appropriate for the Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concern basis and recommended the viability statement to the Board.
Going concern statementPage 97 Viability statementPage 37 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 63 245 4699 100164 165176 Fair, balanced and understandable External auditor When reporting to shareholders the Board aims to present Deloitte, as the external auditor, is engaged to express a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the an opinion on the Companys and the Groups financial Companys position and performance and is assisted in this statements.
Their audit includes a review and test of the by the Committee.
This responsibility covers the Annual and systems of internal control and data contained in the Financial Half Year Reports and Financial Statements, as well as trading Statements to the extent necessary to express an audit opinion updates and other financial reporting.
The Committee is satisfied and has confirmed to the Board Audit plan that the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, In respect of the audit for the financial year ended th balanced and understandable and provide the information 30 November 2015, Deloitte presented their audit plan necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position prepared in consultation with management and the Internal and performance, business model and strategy.
Audit Manager to the Committee.
The audit plan took into account key changes in the business and the impact of these In reaching this view the Committee considered the robust on materiality, scope and risk assessment.
The audit fee, which and well-established processes in place to prepare the Annual was approved by the Committee, was felt to be appropriate Report and Financial Statements which includes: given the scope of work whilst not adversely affecting Deloittes clear guidance and instruction is given to all contributors: independence or objectivity.
revisions to regulatory requirements and governance principles, including the Code, are continually monitored: Non-audit fees To help safeguard Deloittes objectivity and independence, meetings are held with the auditors in advance of the year the Committee has approved a non-audit services policy end reporting process: which sets out the circumstances and financial limits within input is provided by senior management to identify relevant which the external auditor may be permitted to provide and material information and ensure accurate, consistent and certain non-audit services such as tax and other services.
balanced reporting: This policy sets a presumption that Deloitte should only detailed debates and discussions regarding principal risks be engaged for non-audit services where alternative and uncertainties: providers do not exist or where it is cost effective or in the focused review and approval of specific sections by the Groups interest for Deloitte to provide such services.
It also relevant Board Committees, supported by regular reporting precludes Deloitte from providing certain services such by Board Committees to the Board on their activities: as litigation support, actuarial services or internal audit a review by the Committee of reports prepared by activities.
Advance approval of both the Group Finance management on accounting estimates and judgements, Director and the Committee Chairman is required if fees auditor reports on internal controls, accounting and reporting for an engagement are anticipated to exceed 25,000 matters and a management representation letter concerning or where the fee is contingent in full or in part: no such accounting and reporting matters: approvals were required in the year.
Approval below these consideration of the draft Annual Report and Financial levels is required from the Group Finance Director and all Statements by the Committee in advance of final sign-off: and expenditure is reviewed annually by the Committee.
review and approval by the external auditor.
Non-audit fees paid to Deloitte in the year totalled 107,000, representing 31% of the fees paid for audit The Board takes into account the view of the Committee when and audit-related assurance services.
The reduction in undertaking its own review of the document prior to giving expenditure over prior years follows the engagement of final approval.
PwC for tax compliance work from June 2014 and the conclusion of certain property consulting services provided by Drivers Jonas now part of Deloitte Real Estate on two long-term development projects, their involvement in which pre-dated their acquisition by Deloitte.
It is anticipated that further work will be required in respect of one project, and the Committee has approved the continued engagement of Deloitte Real Estate subject to an appropriate cap on fees.
Further information on the remuneration of the external auditor can be found in note 3b to the Group Financial Statements.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 64 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued External auditor continued Tender Independence Deloitte was appointed in 2007 following a tender process.
The current audit engagement partner, Jonathan Dodworth, The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing was appointed for the 2011 12 financial year audit and, in the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
line with ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices In undertaking its assessment, the Committee has reviewed: Board, can remain in post until the 2015 16 financial year audit.
the confirmation from Deloitte that they maintain appropriate internal safeguards in line with applicable In line with the various requirements on audit tendering in the professional standards: Code, the Competition and Markets Authority Order and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills proposals to the Financial Reporting Councils May 2015 Audit Quality implement the EUs June 2014 Audit Directive and Regulation, Inspection Report in respect of Deloittes audit engagements Deloitte is able to complete the audit for the year ending and the firms policies and procedures supporting th audit quality: 30 November 2016.
The engagement of an external auditor for the 2017 audit will need to be subject to a competitive the mitigating actions taken by the Committee in seeking tender process and it is intended that this will be commenced to safeguard Deloittes independence status, including the during 2016. operation of policies designed to regulate the appointment of former employees of the external audit firm and the extent of Having considered the performance of Deloitte including non-audit services provided by the external auditor: value for money and quality and effectiveness of the audit the tenure of the audit engagement partner not being process, its independence, compliance with relevant statutory, greater than five years : and regulatory and ethical standards and objectivity, the Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint the performance evaluation of Deloitte.
Deloitte to office for a further year be proposed at the Taking the above review into account, the Committee 2016 AGM.
concluded that Deloitte remained objective and independent in There are no contractual obligations which would restrict the their role as external auditor.
Companys selection of an external auditor.
Effectiveness Internal audit The Committee has undertaken a review of Deloittes The Group has an internal audit function which reports to the performance and the effectiveness of the external audit Committee and works under the supervision of the Group process.
The review was primarily undertaken by way of Finance Director.
Its key objectives are to provide independent an extensive questionnaire on external audit effectiveness and objective assurance that each business area implements which was completed by management and assessed by the and maintains appropriate and effective controls.
The Committee also considered a self-assessment Audit Charter, which is reviewed annually, governs its remit and carried out by Deloitte on audit objectives, leadership, sets out the standards against which activities are undertaken.
qualification, quality and independence, together with Deloittes experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit plan Internal audit is an agenda item at each Committee meeting.
had been met, its robustness and perceptiveness with regard Reports from the Internal Audit Manager usually include to key accounting and audit judgements, and the content of its updates on audit activities, progress of the Group audit plan, audit reports.
the results of internal audits and the status of implementation of recommendations to address any unsatisfactory areas.
The Committee remains satisfied with Deloittes performance In 2015 internal audits were carried out across a number of and is of the view that there is nothing of concern that would areas including the Baglan Solar Park, Group-wide service impact the effectiveness of the external audit process.
charge arrangements and the Group insurance function.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews and approves the audit plan for the year and has input into ensuring that adequate resources are made available and that the necessary support is provided by the business to accomplish the agreed work programme.
The Committee Chairman meets with the Internal Audit Manager regularly to discuss activities and the nature of any significant issues which may have arisen.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 65 245 4699 100164 165176 The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed Whistleblowing and fraud annually by the Committee, primarily by assessing performance The Groups whistleblowing policy encourages employees against the Internal Audit Charter.
The Committee remained to report, in confidence and anonymously if preferred, satisfied that the function continued to operate effectively concerns about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing throughout 2015. in any matters affecting the business.
Reports can be In the spirit of improving all audit activities, and to ensure that made by confidential telephone reporting lines and a it remains appropriate for the future strategic direction of secure website reporting facility which are operated the Group, in 2016 the Committee will seek an independent by an independent third party.
Any matters reported external review to ensure the continued suitability of the are investigated by the Company Secretary and, where Internal Audit function to the business.
Initial discussions have appropriate, reported to the Committee together with also taken place with external providers to identify potential details of any corrective action taken.
During the year there co-sourcing relationships for agreed audit work and these will were no whistleblowing incidents reported.
be explored further during the coming year.
The Groups fraud prevention policy requires employees Risk management and internal control to be alert to the possibility of the threat of fraud During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed and to report immediately any concerns they have.
the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, The Company remains vigilant against such risk, including accounting policies and practices, standards of risk fraudulent payment requests, and continues to ensure management and risk management procedures and the adequacy of controls and procedures to prevent compliance controls, as well as the Companys statements on such fraud.
The Committee is made aware of all potential internal controls, before they were agreed by the Board for this fraudulent activity.
In doing so the Committee considered: the Groups risk register, including significant and emerging risks, mitigating controls in place and how exposures have changed over the reporting period: internal audit reports on key audit areas and any significant deficiencies in the control environment: management reports on the systems of internal controls and risk management, including tax compliance: external audit reports from Deloitte which included details of their risk assessment process for the purposes of audit: actual and potential legal claims and litigation involving the Group: internal audit reports on potential fraudulent activities perpetrated against the Group: the effectiveness of the internal audit function: and the Groups approach to IT, cyber-security and whistleblowing.
