St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 52 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Leadership This report examines the members of the Board, their role, Matters reserved to the Board their performance and their oversight.
It also looks at the To help retain control of key decisions, the Board has put in induction, succession, independence and effectiveness of place a formal schedule of reserved matters that require its the directors.
The principal reserved matters include: The Board strategy: The Board provides leadership of the Company and direction new business or geographical areas: for management.
It is collectively responsible and accountable authorisation of transactions in excess of 10m and those to shareholders for St. Modwens long-term success.
which are otherwise significant: It sets the strategy, oversees implementation and reviews performance, ensuring that only acceptable risks are taken risk management and internal control: and the appropriate people and resources are in place to dividend policy: deliver long-term value to shareholders and benefits to the documents to shareholders and the Annual and Half Year wider community.
Report and Financial Statements: matters relating to share capital, such as share issues or To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure buybacks: and independent oversight of matters such as remuneration, the appointment removal of directors and the internal control and risk management, the Board delegates Company Secretary.
certain responsibilities to its three principal Committees.
Membership of these Committees consists primarily of the independent non-executive directors and, in some cases, the Chairman.
The Chairmen of each Board Committee report to the Board on matters discussed at Committee meetings.
The Board Develops strategy and leads St. Modwen to achieve long-term success Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Oversees financial and narrative reporting, Oversees Board and senior management Determines the remuneration arrangements property portfolio valuations, internal control, succession planning, leads the process for the executive directors, the Chairman and risk management systems, and internal and for Board appointments and monitors the Company Secretary external audit processes membership of Board Committees Audit Committee Report Nomination Committee Report Directors Remuneration Report Pages 58 to 65 Pages 66 to 69 Pages 70 to 93 Supported by Executive Capital Projects Property Safety, Health CSR Steering directors Committee Board and Environment Group Steering Group Implement strategic Established during the Reviews performance Oversees Group Co-ordinates the decisions approved by year to review significant and considers Groupstrategy, procedure and Groups approach to and the Board and monitor projects, either in terms wide operational issues performance in relation enhance the reporting operational performance of capital investment and initiatives to safety, health and of its corporate social and or risk environmental matters responsibility activities Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 53 245 4699 100164 165176 How the responsibilities of the Board are divided The Board comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Their responsibilities are summarised in the table below and their biographical details can be found on pages 48 and 49.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, who is accountable for the leadership of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who manages and leads the business.
Chairman Bill Shannons role is to lead the Board and ensure that it operates effectively.
His responsibilities include: setting appropriate agendas for Board meetings and ensuring that all matters are given due consideration: maintaining a culture of openness, debate and constructive challenge in the boardroom: ensuring effective dialogue takes place between St. Modwen and its shareholders: providing a tailored induction programme for newly appointed directors and agreeing any training and development needs with other members of the Board: and ensuring the Boards effectiveness.
Chief Executive Bill Oliver is responsible for the leadership of the business, managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
His responsibilities include: day-to-day management of the business: recommending proposals for St. Modwens strategic development and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board: leading the executive management team: and ensuring the efficient use of resources.
Group Finance Director Rob Hudson is responsible for devising and implementing the Groups financial strategy and policies.
He also oversees investor relations, internal audit and IT.
Group Construction Director Steve Burke is responsible for procurement and programme delivery and oversees the Groups major projects.
He also chairs the Companys Steering Groups for CSR and safety, health and the environment.
Senior Independent Director Richard Mullys role involves: acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: serving as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary: and providing an additional communication channel for shareholders.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors work with and challenge the executive directors in the development of St. Modwens strategy.
They offer an independent, external perspective on the business and bring wide and varied commercial experience to both the Board and its Committees.
With the exception of Simon Clarke, all non-executive directors are deemed to be independent.
Company Secretary Tanya Stote: supports the Chairman and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties: is available to all directors for advice and support: keeps the Board regularly updated on governance matters: and attends, and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at, Board and Committee meetings.
She also oversees the Groups HR and Insurance functions and supports the trustee of the Groups pension scheme.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 54 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board meetings Matters considered at each Board meeting The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual Strategic matters programme of Board and Committee meetings which are Acquisition and development opportunities supplemented by visits to sites within the Companys property th portfolio.
In the year ended 30 November 2015 the Board Operational updates held nine meetings: individual director attendance is set out Trading results and forecasts inthe table below.
Management accounts, key performance indicators andfinancial commentary Sites visits in the year included the Trentham Estate: the Health and safety 310,000 sq ft extension to the Screwfix distribution facility at Trentham Lakes, Stoke-on-Trent: the regeneration Board Committee activities scheme at Branston Leas in Burton upon Trent, comprising Investor relations and shareholder feedback both residential and commercial development: and Legal, company secretarial and regulatory matters St. Modwen Homes sites at Manorfields, Swadlincote and Minutes of previous meetings Edison Place, Rugby including PRS units.
Implementation of actions from previous meetings Rolling programme of agenda items Key Board activity in 2014 15 Considered annual renewal of Approved the Groups results for Considered actions arising from th insurance arrangements for the year ended 30 November the internal Board evaluation Dec Jan Mar the Group 2014, including the Groups Considered AGMproperty portfolio valuation and Approved the Chairmans fee related matters final dividend recommendation Toured commercial Considered Group Toured commercial and development sites in financing strategy residential sites in the Midlands, Apr Jun Jul North Staffordshire including PRS schemes Reviewed and approved the Considered risks arising from acquisition of Kirkby Town the Scottish referendum and the Centre, Liverpool UK General Election Annual strategy review, Reviewed and approved the Reviewed the Groups plans including input from the 2016 budget in respect of employee Sep Oct Nov Companys brokers recruitment, retention Considered updates on Group and development Approved the appointment of PR and environmental activity a professional trustee to the Companys pension scheme Attendance at Board meetings Meetings attended in year % attended Director Role Director since out of maximum possible inyear Ian Bull Non-executive director Sep 2014 9 9 100% Steve Burke Group Construction Director Nov 2006 9 9 100% Kay Chaldecott Non-executive director Oct 2012 9 9 100% 1 Simon Clarke Non-executive director Oct 2004 8 9 89% 2 Michael Dunn Group Finance Director Dec 2010 4 4 100% 3 Rob Hudson Group Finance Director Sep 2015 2 2 100% 4 Lesley James Non-executive director Oct 2009 8 9 89% Richard Mully Senior Independent Director Sep 2013 9 9 100% Bill Oliver Chief Executive Jan 2000 9 9 100% 5 John Salmon Non-executive director Oct 2005 3 3 100% Bill Shannon Chairman Nov 2010 9 9 100% 1 Unable to attend the Board meeting in June 2015 due to a prior personal commitment.
st 2 Stepped down from the Board on 31 May 2015. th 3 Appointed to the Board on 28 September 2015.
4 Unable to attend the Board visit in April 2015 due to illness.
th 5 Retired from the Board on 27 March 2015.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 55 245 4699 100164 165176 Effectiveness Induction of a new director The explanatory notes set out in the notice of meeting state the reasons why the Board believes that each director proposed The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is for re-election at the AGM should be re-appointed.
The Board responsible for the induction of all new directors.
has based, in part, its recommendation for re-election on On joining the Board, a director receives a comprehensive its review of the results from the Board evaluation process induction pack which includes background information on the and the Chairmans review of individual evaluations.
It has Company, material on matters relating to the activities of the concluded that the performance of each director continues Board and its Committees and governance-related information to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate substantial including the duties and responsibilities of directors.
commitment to their respective roles, and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall Meetings are arranged with the executive directors, for operation of the Board.
briefings on strategy and performance, as well as with the external auditor and valuers.
Visits to key sites within the Notice of AGMPages 167 to 174 Companys property portfolio are scheduled and external External appointments training, particularly on matters relating to membership On appointment directors are advised of, and requested to of Board Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
make, the necessary time commitment required to discharge Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet their responsibilities effectively.
This time commitment is newly appointed directors should they express a desire to also outlined in the letters of appointment issued to nondo so.
Director development The Chairman reviews annually the time each director The Company is committed to the continuing development of has dedicated to St. Modwen as part of their individual directors in order that they may build on their expertise and performance evaluations and is satisfied that their other duties develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business and time commitments do not conflict with those as directors and the markets in which St. Modwen operates.
Similarly, the Board is content that the Training and development needs are discussed with each Chairmans external appointments do not impact on his ability director by the Chairman as part of the annual individual to allocate sufficient time to discharge his responsibilities to performance evaluation process and kept under review.
Development activities include visits to sites within the Conflicts of interest Companys property portfolio, both as a Board and individually, regular presentations to the Board by regional directors The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, and senior management on key issues and projects, and manage any conflicts of interest affecting directors.
meetings with the external valuers to review their property This enables the Board to consider and, if thought appropriate, valuation reports.
to authorise a directors actual or potential conflict of interest, taking into consideration what is in the best interests of The attendance by members of Board Committees on courses the Company and whether the directors ability to act in relevant to aspects of their respective Committee specialisms is accordance with his or her wider duties is affected.
Director independence and re-election to the Board The Board considers Bill Shannon to have been independent on his appointment as Chairman in 2011 and that he remains so.
Simon Clarke, a non-executive director, represents the interests of the Clarke and Leavesley families on the Board.
Together the families hold 14.4% of the Companys issued share capital and Governance in action: Rob Hudsons induction are St. Modwens largest shareholder.
Consequently the Board On joining St. Modwen as Group Finance Director I has determined that Simon Clarke is not independent for the received a comprehensive, tailored induction.
This involved purposes of the Code.
business briefings with members of the Board and Property Board, meetings with senior managers of The Board considers that all other non-executive directors operating departments such as finance, internal audit, IT are independent and is not aware of any relationship or and HR and a review of Board policies and procedures with circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any director.
At the 2016 AGM, and in accordance with the Companys I was introduced to key external advisors, including Articles of Association, Rob Hudson will retire and offer himself the Companys joint brokers, key banking relationship for election.
All other directors will retire and offer themselves managers and our external valuers and auditor, and have for re-election in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
had meetings with our joint venture partners.
I have also taken the opportunity to visit St. Modwens assets across the country and look forward to building a more in depth knowledge of the Companys property portfolio in the coming months.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 56 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Performance evaluation The annual Board performance evaluation review provides an 2015 EVALUATION PROCESS opportunity for the directors to reflect on their collective and individual effectiveness and consider any changes that could improve the operation of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation review for 2014 was led by the Chairman Review of Governance Framework and involved one-to-one discussions with each director, A suite of Board and Committee information was sent together with a review of the effectiveness of the Committees to BRR to provide information on the governance considered collectively by relevant Committee members.
framework within which the Board operates.
Progress against those areas for improvement identified by the 2014 review can be found in the table below.
It was agreed by the Board that the evaluation for 2015 would commence after Rob Hudson had joined as Group One-to-One Interviews Finance Director at the end of September 2015 in order Individual in-depth interviews were conducted by BRR that his initial views on the operation of the Board could be with each director and the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Code, the assessment is being facilitated by Dr. Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Ltd BRR, who received a comprehensive brief from the Chairman, including the outturn of areas identified for improvement from the 2014 internal review.
Neither Tracy nor BRR has any other Board Meeting Observation connection with the Company and is considered by the Board BRR attended a Board meeting to observe the to be independent.
conduct and operation of the Board.
Copies of meeting papers were circulated to BRR inadvance The outturn of the 2015 evaluation will be considered by the forbriefing purposes.
Board at a separate meeting to be held in March 2016 and reported on in the 2016 Annual Report.
The individual performance of the directors was evaluated through one-to-one discussions with the Chairman.
Reporting Richard Mully, as Senior Independent Director, led the review by the non-executive directors of the Chairmans performance, BRR will prepare a discussion document which which took into account the views of the executive directors.
analyses current strengths and future challenges and No actions were considered necessary as a result of these sets out objectives and recommendations.
evaluations and the Board is of the view that the performance of all directors continues to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles, and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the Discussion and Evaluation overall operation of the Board.
Draft conclusions will be discussed with the Board Committee performance was also evaluated by means Chairman and subsequently considered by all of a questionnaire completed by relevant Committee members directors atameeting with BRR.
The Board will agree and meeting attendees.
The outturn of these evaluations anaction plan to implement, where appropriate, will be considered as part of the Board performance review anyrecommendations made.
2014 Board evaluation 2014 Findings The Boards annual schedule Board agendas are to include The Board and Audit Committee is to be reviewed in order topical areas for deep-dives to will ensure that the Companys to reduce the frequency of enhance the contribution the risk management systems meetings currently nine per non-executive directors can continue to be enhanced annum plus two site visits.
make to key matters affecting through regular focus Meeting duration will instead the business.
and review, supported by be increased to enable greater improved reporting.
Progress in 2015 Six Board meetings now held Members of the management Board workshop held and annually, complemented by team attended Board meetings enhancements made to internal two site visits.
Intra-Board to facilitate discussion on risk reporting.
External advisor communication between issues including PR, peopleengaged to facilitate businessmeetings co-ordinated by strategy and the Groups wide improvements to risk the Chairman.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 57 245 4699 100164 165176 Relations with shareholders Compliance statement Dialogue with investors This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report, the The Board has a comprehensive investor relations Directors Remuneration Report and the sections of this Annual programme which aims to provide existing and potential Report entitled Risk management and Our principal risks, investors with a means of developing their understanding of provide a description of how the main principles of the Code St. Modwen.
The programme is split between institutional have been applied by St. Modwen in 2014 15.
The Code is shareholders which make up the majority of shareholders, published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on private shareholders and debt investors.
Feedback from the its website at www.
programme of events is provided to the Board to ensure that directors develop an understanding of the views of the It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year ended Companys major investors.
th 30 November 2015, the Company was in compliance with the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
As part of the programme, presentations on the half year and annual results are given in face to face meetings and With the exception of disclosures required by Rule 7.2.
6 conference calls with institutional investors, analysts and which are set out in the Directors Report, this Corporate the media.
Copies of these presentations, together with Governance Report contains the information required by Rule trading updates, are published on the Companys website at 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial www.
Meetings with principal shareholders Conduct Authority.
were also held and the Company had regular dialogue with The directors are responsible for preparing this Annual Report.
The Chairman is available to meet The statement of directors responsibilities on pages 98 and with institutional shareholders and investor representatives 99 is made at the conclusion of a robust and effective process to discuss matters relating to strategy and governance.
undertaken by the Company for the preparation and review Private shareholders are encouraged to give feedback and of the Annual Report.
The directors believe that these wellcommunicate with the Board through the Company Secretary.
established arrangements, details of which are set out on Annual General Meeting page63, enable them to ensure that the information presented The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to vote in this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and on the resolutions proposed and to question the Board and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Chairmen of the Board Committees on matters put to the the Companys position and performance, business model meeting.
Resolutions for consideration at the 2016 AGM will and strategy.
be voted on by way of a poll rather than by a show of hands as the Board believes that this is a more transparent method of voting as it allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote will be published on the Companys website, www.
