St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 66 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report This year was again an important one forthe Committee, with the primary focus on succession planning.
BILL SHANNON Chairman of the Nomination Committee Meetings attended inyear out of maximum % attended Committee member Member since possible in year Ian Bull Sep 2014 7 7 100% Kay Chaldecott Mar 2013 7 7 100% Lesley James Oct 2009 7 7 100% Richard Mully Sep 2013 7 7 100% 1 John Salmon Mar 2013 2 2 100% Bill Shannon Nov 2010 7 7 100% th 1 Retired from the Board on 27 March 2015.
COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDEES BY INVITATION Chief Executive Principal role Bill Oliver Reviews the succession planning and leadership needs of Non-executive director the Group and leads the process for Board appointments, Simon Clarke ensuring that directors have an appropriate range of skills Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee and experience to deliver St. Modwens strategy.
Tanya Stote Key activities in 2014 15 Selected and recommended the appointment of Rob Hudson as Group Finance Director.
Reviewed and recommended the re-appointment of Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott.
Reviewed succession plans for Board members and senior management.
Areas of focus for 2015 16 Continue to monitor Board and senior management succession.
Ongoing assessment of Board and senior management diversity.
Consider the re-appointments of Lesley James, BillShannon and Richard Mully.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 67 245 4699 100164 165176 The Committee plays a vital role in ensuring that Committee membership St. Modwen isheaded by a Board which is collectively All members of the Committee are independent non-executive responsible for the long-term success of the Company and directors, with each bringing broad financial and commercial is best placed to operate effectively in the context of our experience at senior levels across a range of industries.
The Committees composition is kept under review by the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making This year was again an important one for the Committee, recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
with the primary focus on the process for identifying potential candidates for the role of Group Finance Director.
I am very The Chairman of the Board chairs all meetings of the pleased with the outcome of this process which resulted in Committee unless they relate to the appointment of his the appointment of Rob Hudson, previously Group Financial successor: for these meetings the Senior Independent Director Controller at British Land Company plc.
We announced Robs is invited to take the Chair.
appointment in April 2015 and he formally took up his position How the Committee operates th on 28 September 2015.
The Committee meets on an ad hoc basis, usually immediately The Committee continues to monitor non-executive director prior to or following a Board meeting, but on other occasions succession to identify any skills gap whilst ensuring an as may be needed.
It met formally on seven occasions during appropriate balance of skills and experience.
In the year both the year, primarily to progress the appointment of a new Group Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott were re-appointed and Ian Finance Director.
A number of informal meetings, conference Bull replaced John Salmon as Audit Committee Chairman calls and discussions also took place between Committee following Johns retirement in March 2015. members, search consultants and potential candidates throughout the recruitment process.
The Committee Chairman Diversity in all its forms, including gender, remains a key area reports to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on the activity of focus for the Committee.
The composition and capabilities of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the of all directors is kept under review to ensure that Board Board in the conduct of its work.
membership is sufficiently diverse and reflects a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to meet its Only members of the Committee have the right to attend responsibilities.
We are supporting the Government and the meetings.
However an invitation to attend meetings is Equality and Human Rights Commission in their review of the extended to Simon Clarke, a non-executive director, and the recruitment and appointment processes adopted across the Chief Executive attends for all or part of meetings by invitation FTSE 350 and await their findings with interest.
Tanya Stote, Company Secretary, is secretary to the Committee.
Looking forward to 2016, we will continue to review succession plans to ensure that arrangements are in place In 2015 the Committees performance was reviewed for the orderly and progressive refreshing of the Board internally by way of a questionnaire which was completed and to identify individuals with potential for appointment to by all members of the Committee and the Chief Executive.
senior management and Board positions.
Recognising the The feedback received will be considered as part of the Board benefits that diversity can bring, we will also continue to performance review meeting in March 2016. support the Board in its commitment to strengthening female Activities of the Committee in the year representation at both Board and senior management level.
Appointment and re-appointment of directors Further information in respect of the Committee and its The Committee leads the process for appointments to the activities during the year is set out in the remainder of this Board and makes recommendations to the Board when report which I hope you find informative.
suitable candidates have been identified in line with Boardapproved procedures.
When a vacancy arises, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board before preparing a description Bill Shannon of the role and capabilities required for that appointment.
Where appropriate external recruitment consultants are Chairman of the Nomination Committee engaged to assist with the search process.
Appointments are st 1 February 2016 made based on merit whilst having regard to the need to maintain Board diversity in all its forms.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 68 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Activities of the Committee in the year continued Re-appointment of non-executive directors Appointment of Group Finance Director Independent non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are appointed by the Board for an initial three-year term In December 2014 the Committee engaged Odgers Berndtson, and typically serve a second three-year term.
Beyond this a a leading executive search firm, to assist with the search for a third term of up to three years may be served subject to a Group Finance Director to replace Michael Dunn, who stepped st particularly rigorous review and taking into account the need down from the Board on 31 May 2015.
Odgers Berndtson for progressive refreshment of the Board.
Appointments are has no other connection with the Company other than in its subject to satisfactory performance reviews, re-election by capacity as a search consultant.
shareholders and statutory provisions relating to the removal The Committee assessed the skills and experience of directors.
required to fulfil the role of Group Finance Director and The terms of service of the Chairman and the other nona list of potential candidates, both internal and external, executive directors are contained in letters of appointment.
These included both men and women that These set out the time commitment expected from each occupied senior finance roles in both listed and private non-executive director to ensure they perform their duties companies across a range of sectors.
This list was reviewed satisfactorily.
Each non-executive director confirms that they by the Committee in early 2015 and a shortlist prepared.
are able to allocate the time commitment required at the time Interviews were conducted, initially involving both the Chairman of their appointment and thereafter as part of their individual and Chief Executive, with short-listed candidates meeting annual effectiveness review undertaken by the Chairman members of the Committee and the Group Construction or the Senior Independent Director in the case of the Director.
Psychometric assessments were also undertaken.
After consideration the Committee unanimously concluded that the appointment of Rob Hudson, then Group Financial During the year the Committee considered the re-appointment Controller at British Land Company plc, be recommended of Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott to the Board, who to the Board.
The Board unanimously approved the had completed six and three years service respectively.
recommendation and his appointment was confirmed in April The Committee was satisfied that both Lesley and Kay th 2015.
Rob joined the Company on 28 September 2015. remained independent and would be able to continue to dedicate sufficient time to fulfil their roles as non-executive Noting that the Company would have no Group Finance directors of the Company.
The Committee recommended, Director in post for the period from June to September 2015, and the Board approved, the re-appointment of Kay for a the Committee agreed with the Chief Executive that Andy second three-year term.
Noting that Lesley had completed her Taylor, the Companys Group Financial Controller, be appointed second three-year term, and the need to ensure continued Acting Group Finance Director for the period.
refreshing of the Board, the Board approved the Committees recommendation that her appointment be renewed for a further year, and annually thereafter as appropriate to 2018.
Composition of the Board Length of directors tenures 1 2 3 Less than 3 years Independent directors 4 36 years Non-independent directors 79 years Non-executive Chairman independent 1 4 More than 9 years 3 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 69 245 4699 100164 165176 Succession planning Board diversity John Salmon, non-executive director and Chairman of the All aspects of diversity, including but not limited to gender, are Audit Committee, retired at the 2015 AGM.
Whilst his tenure considered during the recruitment process at every level within exceeded nine years, the Board was of the view that John the business, including appointments to the Board.
was independent in character and judgement and that it was Recognising the benefits that diversity can bring, the Board appropriate for him to continue in office as Audit Committee seeks to recruit directors from different backgrounds with Chairman to provide continuity for the approval of the results a range of experience, perspectives, personalities, skills th for the year ended 30 November 2014. and knowledge.
Both the Committee and the Board have The Committee recommended to the Board that Ian Bull, a fundamental obligation to ensure that appointments are who was appointed as a non-executive director in September of the best candidates, selected on merit against objective 2014 and is Chief Financial Officer and main board director of criteria.
Subject to this, the availability of suitable candidates Ladbrokes plc, be appointed as Committee Chairman in Johns and compliance with the requirements of the Equality Act, the th stead.
His appointment took effect from 27 March 2015.
Board is committed to strengthening female representation at Board and senior management level.
It has not however set The Board recognises the importance of developing employees prescriptive targets as it does not believe these are in the best of St. Modwen, particularly in relation to succession planning interests of either the Company or its shareholders.
for senior positions within the Company.
People development is reviewed by both the Nomination Committee and the Board The Board currently comprises two female non-executive to ensure that plans are in place to recognise and grow internal directors, Lesley James and Kay Chaldecott, who together talent.
For more information see page 44. represent 22% female Board membership.
Gender diversity below Board level is set out in the Corporate Social Independence and re-election to the Board Responsibility Report.
Following his appointment in September 2015 Rob Hudson In support of its diversity policy, the Committee will only engage will retire and offer himself for election at the 2016 AGM.
executive search firms who have signed up to the Enhanced In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all Voluntary Code of Conduct which supports more female other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election to appointments to FTSE 350 boards.
Corporate Social Responsibility ReportPages 42 to 45 Each of the directors has been subject to a formal performance evaluation process and both the Committee and the Board are satisfied that all directors continue to be effective in, and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles on the Board and that each makes a valuable contribution to the leadership of the Company.
The Board therefore recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2016 AGM relating to the election and re-election of the directors.
With the exception of Simon Clarke, who is not deemed to be independent by virtue of his representation of the interests of the Clarke and Leavesley families, the Committee has also reviewed and confirmed the independence of each nonexecutive director seeking re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Directors core areas of expertise Executive directors appointments 1 1 Property & Operations 5 Internal promotion Finance External appointment HR 3 2
