St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 16 Strategic Report Resources and relationships WE SEE PROSPECTS Our long lasting partnerships with key stakeholders are pivotal to the success of our regeneration activities.
These relationships are complemented by a key set of resources, and together they enable us to create value and generate strong returns.
Resources Relationships Employees Local communities Our employees are the driving and tenants forcebehind our success and We seek to maintain good working we aim to attract, develop and relationships with our extensive retain the best people.
Across all tenant base through our regional disciplines we employ a highly skilled and local asset management teams.
team tosafeguard our values and We engage with communities deliverexcellent returns whilst throughout development to ensure protecting assets.
we remain sensitive to the impact of our schemes.
Financial capital Private sector and jvs Our recurring income stream We have a number of long-term underpins the running costs of the relationships with private sector business.
Whilst we maintain strong partners either in joint venture relationships with key banks, we are or through land acquisitions or not reliant on bank finance and have development agreements.
Our diversified our sources of funding core values help to maintain these through equity and debt issues.
relationships from which we seek to secure maximum mutual value.
Land bank Public sector and regulators Our 1.7bn property portfolio We work with local authorities, is managed across our 6,000 and public sector organisations acre land bank.
At any point in at a regional level throughout the time weare continually adding lifecycle of an asset.
We also work value toit through remediation, closely with the HSE, Environment planning, development, disposals Agency and other Government and new acquisitions.
regulators to ensure best practice is met at all stages of delivery.
Buildings Supply chain Where possible we seek to Our supply chain partners are reuse existing buildings during required to share our core principles development.
However, where of delivering to the highest quality, demolition is necessary we will on time and within budget.
Many reclaim and recycle as much of our contractors work with us on existingmaterial as is possible to a number of schemes, enhancing reduce both cost and the impact mutual understanding and trust.
"Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 17 245 4699 100164 165176 Bay Campus, Swansea University Longbridge, Birmingham Professor Iwan Davies, Sacha Berendji, Director of Retail, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Swansea University Marks & Spencer "" The Bay Campus has been recognised as among the most "" At 150,000 sq ft, M&S Longbridge is one of our biggest ambitious projects in the UK higher education sector for decades."
"The vibrancy and connectivity of the area, plus the diverse, growing population made it the perfect location and "" Its realisation, in partnership with St. Modwen, heralds a new era St. Modwen's ongoing regeneration of Longbridge is establishing and new status for Swansea University which is transforming it as a truly mixed use model of sustainability. """
st into a global exemplar of a 21 Century University and one that promotes and champions the student experience.
"Richard Burden, "" St. Modwen has been fundamental in adopting this vision and MP for BirminghamNorthfield enabling the University to deliver the first stage of this ambitious "" For a hundred years, Longbridge was not only a byword for car development on time and on budget."
This has been achieved making one of the defining industries of the twentieth century.
through the exceptional and dedicated project management It has also been central to the identity of this part of Birmingham: of St. Modwens senior team and the relationship with the part of the its culture and the way people thought about construction supply chain that they have managed throughout themselves and their communities.
"So the collapse of the former MG Rover plant in 2005 was a "" In addition, St. Modwen has respected the Universitys policy huge blow, not only to the economy but to the self-confidence in promoting regional opportunities wherever that is possible."
"Therefore redeveloping the site has been about The impact has been 170 contracts being awarded within Wales rebuilding an identity and a communitys self-confidence as much and almost 7,000 jobs during the 26-month construction period. """
"as the massive physical scale of the challenge involved. """
St. Modwens and St. Modwen Homes role in taking this forward has been and remains pivotal from the reclamation of acres upon acres of industrial land to the construction of new homes, a town centre and the attraction of new businesses.
"The developer has also been pivotal in proactively engaging with local people both directly and through their representatives. """
There is still a long way to go until the project is complete but it is important to recognise how much the developer has contributed.
"It is good to have them as partners on Longbridges climb into the future. """
