St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 50 Corporate Governance The Property Board Richard Bannister Guy Gusterson Regional Director Group Residential Director Yorkshire and North East Length of service: 7 years Length of service: 9 years Experience: began his career at St. Modwen as Development Manager for Experience: joined St. Modwen as Land Director for Project MoDEL in 2006 the Yorkshire and North East region in 2008 and was promoted to Regional and became Residential Director in 2009.
Previously Development Director Manager in 2014 and Regional Director in 2015.
Previously Strategic Director at Crest Nicholson PLC overseeing residential-led mixed use developments of Pearson Developments Ltd and worked at Turner & Partners Chartered in London and the South East.
Led the establishment and development of Surveyors.
A member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Key activity in the year: continues to oversee the ongoing development of Key activity in the year: promoted to Group Residential Director in 2015 Waterdale Shopping Centre, Doncaster, which has seen a 70% rise in overall with responsibility for maximising the value of the Groups residential footfall and new lettings announced in 2015.
Managed the sale of a 1.2 acre land bank by optimising St. Modwens residential projects, delivery of site to Aldi plus four new lettings in the year at Billingham Town Centre infrastructure, working with joint venture partners and co-ordinating following its acquisition for 14.3m in 2014. development with St. Modwen Homes.
Mike Herbert Rupert Joseland Regional Director Regional Director The Trentham Estate South West and SouthWales Length of service: 25 years Length of service: 14 years Experience: began his career as a chartered surveyor at Louis Taylor Experience: joined Chestertons on graduating before moving to Boots Ltd advising on commercial property projects before joining St. Modwen Properties Ltd and then to Miller Developments Ltd to gain further as Development Surveyor and promoted to Regional Director in 1997. experience in commercial development and estate management.
Promoted Deliverednumerous major projects across the North Staffordshire region from Midlands Development Surveyor in 2004 and moved to Bristol to including Trentham Lakes, Etruria Valley and Festival Park.
establish the South West and South Wales regional office.
Key activity in the year: continues to oversee the regeneration and management of the Trentham Estate, a 725 acre tourist, leisure and shopping Key activity in the year: regional delivery of the first phase of the new destination centred on the restored Trentham Gardens and attracting over Swansea University Bay Campus comprising both student accommodation 3m visitors per year.
The Gardens were named BBC Countryfile Magazine and academic facilities.
Responsible for the ongoing mixed-use regeneration Garden of the Year in March 2015. schemes at Coed Darcy, Neath and Glan Llyn, Llanwern, with the latter welcoming its first resident in the year.
Project lead for the redevelopment ofMoD Ashchurch.
Steven Knowles Richard Powell Regional Director Build Director North West Length of service: 12 years Length of service: 9 years Experience: has over 20 years experience in the property sector, including Experience: held commercial management and quantity surveying roles in the investment and development division at Evans Property GroupLtd.
at a number of companies including Bovis Lend Lease Ltd, Balfour Beatty Joined as Northern Development Surveyor in 2003 and promoted to North Building Ltd and Skanska Construction UK Ltd.
Joined St. Modwen in 2006 West Regional Director in 2014.
A member of the Royal Institution of asConstruction Manager and has delivered both mixed-use and commercial Chartered Surveyors.
schemes such as Wembley Central, Farnborough Town Centre and Skypark, Exeter.
Promoted to Build Director in 2015.
Key activity in the year: managed the 10m acquisition of Moorgate Point, Liverpool and the purchase of Kirkby Town Centre for 35.8m.
Continues to Key activity in the year: delivery of 775,000 sq ft of accommodation and oversee the regeneration of Great Homer Street, Liverpool and Skelmersdale academic facilities at Bay Campus, Swansea to welcome over 900 students Town Centre.
The second phase of the project is on site and a development agreement with the University to develop a third phase was signed in December 2015.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 51 245 4699 100164 165176 Stephen Prosser Tim Seddon Regional Director Regional Director Midlands London and South East Length of service: 18 years Length of service: 9 years Experience: background in surveying, property valuation and asset Experience: began his career at Edward Erdman as Development Surveyor management for both local councils and Allied London Properties PLC.
before moving to Land Securities PLC in 1994.
Here he gained experience Established the Yorkshire and North East office in 2005 and became Regional in both the retail and commercial offices sectors and became Development Director for the North in 2012.
Promoted to Midlands Regional Director in Director, with responsibility for a number of town and city centre 2014.
regeneration-led projects throughout the UK.
Key activity in the year: oversees the ongoing 1bn regeneration of Key activity in the year: the regeneration of the 57 acre New Covent Garden Longbridge, including the new 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer store which Market sites in Nine Elms, London, which achieved unconditional status in the opened in November 2015.
Other regional activity includes the mixed-use year, and the mixed-use redevelopment of the former RAF site at Uxbridge.
leisure-based Meon Vale scheme in Stratford-upon-Avon, and the extensive Will also oversee delivery of a development agreement for a 1m sqft redevelopment of a 280 acre former industrial site in Branston, business park in Brentwood, Essex which was signed in July 2015.
Dave Smith Andy Taylor Managing Director Group Financial Controller St. Modwen Homes Length of service: Less than a year Length of service: 8 years Experience: joined St. Modwen in 2015 from Morgan Sindall where he Experience: joined Deloitte on graduating and became Senior Audit and was Construction Managing Director with responsibility for the north of Assurance Manager.
Also held positions at Wilson Bowden plc as Group England and Wales.
Previously worked for St. Modwen from 2003 until 2009 Financial Controller and David Wilson Homes as Southern Division Finance as a Construction Manager.
A member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Director.
Became Group Financial Controller for St. Modwen in 2007.
Surveyors and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Building.
Key activity in the year: led the Groups finance team and with Key activity in the year: responsible for the ongoing operation of responsibility for all areas of operational finance, together with the St. Modwen Homes, the Groups housebuilding business, which has management of corporate finance activity, treasury, tax and internal and 13schemes under development across the country and five due to external financial reporting.
Appointed Acting Group Finance Director from startonsitein 2016.
Rupert Wood Bill Oliver, Steve Burke, Rob Hudson and Tanya Stote are also Regional Director members of the Property Board.
See pages 48 and 49 for their Northern Home Counties biographies.
Length of service: 9 years Experience: previously worked for various retail agencies dealing in land acquisition and property management.
Joined St. Modwen in 2006 from LendLease where he was Senior Development Manager.
Established the Northern Home Counties office in 2008 as Regional Manager and promoted to Regional Director in 2009.
A member of the Royal Institution of CharteredSurveyors.
Key activity in the year: 90,000 sq ft speculative development at Letchworth Industrial Estate completed and fully let, with the investment sold post year-end at a yield of 5.2%.
Managed the disposal of the Groups assets at Cranfield University Technology Park for 16.5m in July 2015.
Continues to lead St. Modwen Energy, established in 2011 to promote large scale power generation projects across the UK, including Wrexham in North Wales and Meaford in Staffordshire.
