St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 48 Corporate Governance The Board Bill Shannon Bill Oliver Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive N R Appointed: November 2010 as non-executive director and Chairman Appointed: January 2000.
Designate, March 2011 as non-executive Chairman.
Key strengths: extensive strategic and operational leadership and financial Key strengths: significant management and board experience across retail, management experience in the property industry.
leisure, financial services and property sectors.
Experience: over 30 years experience in the property industry with Experience: a 30 year career at Whitbread plc which culminated in his residential and commercial development companies such as Alfred McAlpine, appointment as a main board director for 10 years until his retirement in Barratt and The Rutland Group.
Finance Director of Dwyer Estates plc from 2004.
Former Chairman of AEGON UK plc, Gaucho Grill Holdings Ltd and 1994 to 2000.
Joined St. Modwen in 2000 as Finance Director and was Pizza Hut UK Ltd, and former non-executive director of The Rank Group plc, subsequently appointed Managing Director in 2003 and Chief Executive in Barratt Developments plc and Matalan plc.
External appointments: Member of the advisory board of the Governments External appointments: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Regeneration Investment Organisation.
of LSL Property Services plc, non-executive director of Johnson Service Group plc and Council Member of the University of Southampton.
Steve Burke Rob Hudson Group Construction Director Group Finance Director Appointed: November 2006.
Key strengths: strong operational leadership and project management Key strengths: strong financial management, commercial and operational experience in the construction sector.
experience in financial services, information services and commercial property sectors.
Experience: joined St. Modwen in 1995 as a Contracts Surveyor after a number of years construction experience in senior roles with national Experience: over 20 years experience in finance, most recently as contracting companies including Balfour Beatty and Clarke Construction.
Group Financial Controller at British Land PLC from 2011.
Joined Appointed Construction Director in 1998 and joined the Board as a director  on graduating then moved to Experian PLC in in 2006.
2000 where he held a number of senior financial roles, including Global Finance Director of its Decision Analytics business and UK Finance Director.
External appointments: member of the Board of Governors of the English National Ballet School and chair of its Finance Committee.
Ian Bull Richard Mully Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive director A N R A N R Appointed: September 2013 as non-executive director, December 2013 Appointed: September 2014. asSenior Independent Director.
Key strengths: strong financial management and operational experience Key strengths: extensive experience in investment banking, fund inmajor commercial businesses across a range of sectors.
management, capital markets and real estate private equity investing with Experience: Chief Financial Officer and main board director at Ladbrokesplc considerable board experience.
Over 20 years financial experience with companies such as Experience: Partner and Managing Director at Bankers Trust Company Whitbread plc, Buena Vista Home Entertainment Walt Disney Company from 1992 to 1998 and Managing Director and Head of European Merchant and BT Group.
Group Finance Director of Greene King plc from 2006 to 2011 Banking from 1998 to 2000.
Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Soros Real and former non-executive director of Paypoint Ltd. A Fellow of the Chartered Estate Partners LLC and its successor firm, Grove International Partners LLP, Institute of Management Accountants.
a major real estate private equity firm from 2000 to 2011.
Former Senior External appointments: Chief Financial Officer and main board director of Independent Director of Hansteen Holdings plc.
External appointments: Senior Independent Director of ISG plc, non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset Management plc and Supervisory Board member of Alstria Office REIT-AG.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 49 245 4699 100164 165176 Kay Chaldecott Simon Clarke, DL Independent non-executive Non-executive director director A N R Appointed: October 2012.
Key strengths: significant knowledge of the retail property sector, including Key strengths: strong commercial and management experience in both the retail development process, retail mix and leasing and shopping centre farming and property and extensive knowledge of the Companys history.
Experience: the son of Sir Stanley Clarke, the founder and former Chairman Experience: joined Capital Shopping Centres Group plc now Intu Properties of St. Modwen, he represents the interests of the Clarke and Leavesley plc on graduating and held a number of senior management positions, families, the Companys largest shareholders, on the Board.
Former Deputy including Managing Director, during a career spanning 27 years.
Also served Chairman of Northern Racing plc and director and Vice-Chairman of The as a main board director from 2005 until leaving the group in 2011.
Former Racecourse Association Ltd. An Honorary Doctor of Staffordshire University.
non-executive director of Boyer Planning Ltd. A member of the Royal External appointments: Chairman of Dunstall Holdings Ltd.
Trustee of Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Racing Welfare and Chairman of Racing Homes.
Member of Staffordshire External appointments: non-executive director of NewRiver Retail Ltd and Universitys Development Board.
Advisory Board member of Next Leadership.
Lesley James, CBE Tanya Stote Independent non-executive Company Secretary director A N R Appointed: October 2009.
Key strengths: extensive executive remuneration and human resources Experience: over 15 years of governance and compliance experience experience and considerable Board experience across public, private, in FTSE listed companies, including Misys plc, Taylor Woodrow plc voluntary and education sectors.
nowTaylor Wimpey plc and Travis Perkins plc.
Joined St. Modwen Experience: HR Director for Tesco plc from 1985 to 1999 and a main board from GKN plc where she was Deputy Company Secretary and Head of director from 1994.
Former non-executive director for various companies Secretarial Department.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
including Alpha Airports Group plc, Anchor Trust, Care UK plc, Inspicio plc, Key responsibilities: these include board and board committee support, Liberty International plc and the West Bromwich Building Society.
Former corporate governance, statutory and regulatory compliance, insurance, trustee of the charity I CAN.
Awarded a CBE in 2003 for services to the DTI HR and pensions.
Partnership at Work Assessment Panel.
A Companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Key: Changes to the Board Member of the Member of the A R John Salmon retired from the Board as independent non-executive Audit Committee Remuneration Committee th director and Audit Committee Chairman on 27 March 2015.
Member of the Denotes N Ian Bull was appointed Audit Committee Chairman with effect from Nomination Committee Committee Chairman th 27 March 2015.
Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board as Group Finance st Director on 31 May 2015.
Rob Hudson joined the Board as Group Finance Director on th 28 September 2015.
