Nomination Committee report 6.1 Introduction from Garry Watts, Stagecoach 6.4 Board diversity Group Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the The Company believes strongly that its Board benefits from comprising talented people with a range of perspectives and from differing backgrounds.
Nomination Committee The terms of reference of the Committee reflect this in the criteria for The Nomination Committee has an important place in the governance identifying suitable candidates for nomination to the Board.
structure of the Stagecoach Group.
To be effective a board needs to maintain balance over time, taking account of planned and unplanned changes to the The Company was co-founded by Ann Gloag and throughout its life as a listed membership of the Board.
As Chairman of the Committee, I ensure that we company it has had at least one woman on its Board and since May 2001, at regularly review our Board composition and ensure that the mix of skills least two.
There are currently ten directors of the Company.
We are aware that talented individuals can come from The percentage of women on the Board is 20% and the Board aspires to diverse backgrounds and aim to promote greater diversity in the maintain at least this percentage in the future.
In addition to board diversity, recommendations that we make to the Board.
the Company believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation, We have reviewed the performance and length of service of our executive and further detail of which is provided in section 1.8.
non-executive directors and are pleased to be able to recommend all of our board for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
6.5 Succession planning arrangements The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in Garry Watts some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and Chairman of the Nomination Committee more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers 24 June 2015 who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates recruited have gone on to become managing directors of individual business 6.2 Composition of the Nomination units, both in the UK and North America.
Committee The Nomination Committee ensures that appropriate succession The composition of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Committee also invites other non-executive directors to attend its the Board seeks to identify new directors and senior managers to ensure meetings from time to time.
succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
The Committee believes that it is important to develop and promote existing talent from within the 6.3 Operation of the Nomination Committee organisation.
The Nomination Committee keeps under review the overall structure, size and The Chief Executive has established a talent group involving human resources, composition of the Board, and is responsible for evaluating the balance of training and other professionals from within the Group.
The talent group is skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and its committees.
Where taking a lead role to further enhance the recruitment, retention and appropriate the Committee will suggest adjustments to achieve that balance.
development of talented employees throughout the Group.
For a proposed appointment, the Committee will prepare a description of the role and the attributes required of the candidates, which will include a job Given the importance of succession planning, the views of all directors are specification and the estimate of the time commitment expected.
In making considered and not just the views of the members of the Committee.
any appointment, the Groups policy on directors having other significant commitments will be taken into account and potential candidates will be asked to disclose their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee identifies and evaluates suitable candidates and makes proposals for each appointment, although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
The appointments process takes account of the benefits of diversity of the Board, including gender diversity and in identifying suitable candidates the Committee considers candidates from a range of backgrounds.
When seeking to appoint a new non-executive director, the Nomination Committee compiles a shortlist of potential new non-executive directors by taking account of known candidates and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new appointments, the expected time commitment is agreed with the director and included in the letter of appointment.
No director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Groups website at http: www.
pdf page 38 | Stagecoach Group plc
