1 Financial Reporting 5.1 Introduction from Gregor Alexander, The Groups interim and preliminary financial results, as well as its Annual Chairman of the Audit Committee Report, were reviewed and revised by the Audit Committee before As Chair of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our Audit recommending their publication to the Board.
At each meeting, the Committee report for the financial year ended 30 April 2015 in accordance Committee discussed with management how they had applied critical with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The report describes how we have accounting policies and judgements to these documents, having considered discharged our responsibilities under the Code and monitored the reports from both the Groups management and the external auditors.
The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control systems and external auditors attended all meetings of the Committee and presented risk management.
audit plans and findings, amongst other matters.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code was issued in September 2014 The Committee considered a number of issues and accounting judgements and will apply to next years Audit Committee report.
In the year ahead, the in respect of the financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2015, of Committee will consider the changes relevant to risk management and which it considered the most significant to be set out in the table on the internal control arising from the revised Code, in particular reviewing the following page.
processes in place to support the new viability statement.
Other areas of focus will include overseeing the tenders of the external audit and Risk In addition to the significant accounting judgements set out in the table, the Assurance function, which we intend to complete by April 2016.
Committee also considered other accounting and reporting matters in respect of the year ended 30 April 2015, including the following: Exceptional items The Committee considered the appropriateness of the amounts disclosed as exceptional items in the financial statements and the adequacy of the disclosure related to such items.
In respect of the year Gregor Alexander ended 30 April 2015, the Committee considered the Financial Reporting Chairman of the Audit Committee Councils recommendations to companies around the consistency of 24 June 2015 reporting exceptional items, and is satisfied that the Groups approach is appropriate in this area.
5.2 Composition of the Audit Committee East Coast Main Line - The Group begun operating the Virgin Trains East Coast rail franchise on 1 March 2015 and acquired the train operating The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 4.9 of this company, East Coast Main Line Company Limited, at that time.
Gregor Alexander is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a Chartered Accountant.
Gregor is the Finance Director of Committee considered the accounting for the franchise commencement and the purchase of the train operating company.
The Committee SSE plc, a FTSE 100 company, and is the designated Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience.
Phil White is a former Finance considered whether a business combination in an accounting sense had Director and former Chief Executive of a FTSE 350 company and is also a occurred but concluded that the purchase of the train operating company should be accounted for as an asset purchase, with the cost of the Chartered Accountant.
Helen Mahy qualified as a Barrister, was an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute and was the Company Secretary and purchase allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on General Counsel of a FTSE 100 company.
their fair values at the date of purchase.
The difference between the cost of the purchase and the values recorded for the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recorded as an intangible asset to be amortised 5.3 Operation of the Audit Committee over the expected life of the franchise.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The Committee Rail franchise opportunities In light of the range of opportunities facing retains discretion as to who from outside the Committee should attend its the Groups UK Rail Division, the Committee considered whether any meetings but generally invites the following to attend: actual or anticipated changes in the commercial terms or duration of rail The Group Finance Director: franchises resulted in any changes in accounting estimates.
The The Group Financial Controller: Committee also considered the accounting for any costs incurred in pursuing rail franchise opportunities.
The Committee concluded that the The Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: accounting estimates in the consolidated financial statements had been Representatives from the external auditors: appropriately updated for such franchise changes and that any costs Representatives from the Risk Assurance Function.
incurred in pursuing rail franchise opportunities had been appropriately In addition, the Group Tax Director and Group Treasurer are expected to accounted for.
present to the Committee at least annually.
Impairment and onerous contracts In addition to considering whether The Committee may also invite other directors of the Company to attend the carrying value of the Groups investment in Twin America was meetings of the Committee and does so from time to time.
impaired, the Committee also considered whether any adjustments were required to the consolidated financial statements for impairments of any other assets and or onerous contracts.
The Committee concluded that no 5.4 Activities of the Audit Committee material impairment losses or provisions for onerous contracts ought to be The Committee receives reports from major business functions including the recorded in the consolidated financial statements that were not already Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced and managed recorded.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the Other liabilities The Committee considered the judgments made in scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements respect of certain other liabilities, including the token provision, and and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the considered them to be appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence The Audit Committee also reviewed the evidence that supported the and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
conclusion that the Group remained a going concern, noting it was The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups consistent with the disclosure given in section 3.12 of this Annual Report.
pdf The sections that follow set out the areas that the Committee focused on during and in respect of the year ended 30 April 2015. page 34 | Stagecoach Group plc 5.
Audit Committee report 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 35 Significant issues or judgements Work and conclusion of Audit Quantification Relevant notes to the considered by Audit Committee Committee consolidated financial statements Pensions The determination of the Groups The Committee considered the appropriateness of The total pensions expense 6, 25 pension benefit obligation and pension assumptions by receiving reports from recognised in the expense for defined benefit pension management outlining the basis of the consolidated income schemes is dependent on the selection assumptions used, comparing these assumptions statement for the year by the Directors of certain to those applied by other companies operating in ended 30 April 2015 was assumptions used by actuaries in the same sector as the Group as well as by listed 84.2m 2014: 74.2m calculating such amounts.
Those companies more generally, considering advice and the net retirement assumptions include the discount rate, from external actuaries and considering analysis benefit liability as at 30 April annual rate of increase in future salary undertaken by the external auditors.
The 2015 was 160.5m 2014: levels and mortality rates.
Committee noted that there was a range of 115.8m.
acceptable assumptions but concluded that the assumptions applied were appropriate.
Insurance The estimation of the insurance The Committee discussed with management the The insurance provision in 24 provision in respect of traffic accidents key judgements made in determining the the consolidated balance and employee incidents is based on an insurance provision, challenging the methodology sheet as at 30 April 2015 assessment of the expected settlement used, and understanding the extent to which was 150.7m 2014: on known claims together with an estimates are supported by third party actuarial 140.9m.
estimate of settlements that will be advice and analysis provided by the external made in respect of incidents occurring auditors.
The Committee noted that there was a prior to the balance sheet but for which range of acceptable estimates for the year-end claims have not been reported to the insurance provision and after challenge, concluded Group.
that the amount of the insurance provision was at an appropriate point within that range.
Taxation The Committee considered the judgements made The consolidated tax charge 7, 23 in respect of tax by reviewing reports from for the year ended 30 April management outlining the basis of the 2015 was 25.7m 2014: assumptions, challenging the estimates formed 25.5m.
and considering the extent to which third party The net consolidated tax professional advice and or historical experience liability as at 30 April 2015 informed the judgements.
The Committee met was 63.2m 2014: with the Groups Tax Director, the Group Tax 82.9m.
Manager and a tax partner from the external auditors in April 2015.
The specific judgements considered by the Committee included the accounting for the tax effect of fuel derivatives, transfer pricing and the financing of foreign operations.
The Committee concluded that appropriate judgements had been made in determining the tax amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Twin America Litigation Certain of the Groups subsidiaries and The Committee considered the appropriateness of The carrying value of the 13, 31 one of its joint ventures, Twin liabilities held by the Group and its joint venture in Groups interest in Twin America, are party to litigation as respect of the Twin America litigation.
It America as at 30 April 2015 explained in note 31 to the considered this through discussion with was 35.9m 2014: consolidated financial statements.
management and consideration of relevant legal 28.5m, after deducting The ultimate cost to the Group in advice.
It evaluated the range of possible outcomes 2.6m 2014: 11.6m in respect of this matter is uncertain but and concluded that appropriate liabilities had been respect of the Groups share the Audit Committee is pleased that recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
of liabilities related to the position is now less uncertain as a litigation.
result of progress made during the The Committee also assessed whether the carrying year ended 30 April 2015 towards value of the Groups interest in Twin America was A further 4.1m was held in settling the litigation.
impaired, and concluded that no impairment loss accruals in the Groups had arisen.
consolidated balance sheet as at 30 April 2015 in respect of liabilities related to the litigation.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 35 Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 36 Audit Committee report of the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 April 2017.
The Audit Committee does not necessarily intend that there will be a change of 5.4.
2 External auditors auditors as a result of the planned tender.
The external auditors presented a detailed audit plan to the Committee, The Committee intends to issue an initial Request for Information RFI in setting out their analysis of significant audit risks and key judgemental August 2015 to parties wishing to tender for the Groups external audit accounting matters, which would inform their planned scope and approach and or internal audit.
Further information can be obtained from the to the current year audit.
For the year ended 30 April 2015, the most Company Secretary significant risks identified were in relation to provisioning for insurance The Group is not aware of any restrictions that would limit its choice of claims, taxation, pensions accounting and the Twin America impairment external auditors.
assessment, based on the inherent level of management judgement required The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance in these areas.
These risks are monitored through the year and the during their period in office, has recommended to the Board that a proposal be Committee challenged the work done by the auditors to test managements put to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting for the reassumptions and estimates.
The Committee considered the Private meetings were held with the external auditors at each Committee audit fee of 0.8m 2014: 0.8m for  LLP appropriate meeting without the presence of management.
The Committee Chairman and concluded that an effective audit can be conducted for such a fee.
also holds meetings with the external auditors between Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making 5.4.
3 Non-Audit services recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are in place to remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of safeguard audit objectivity and independence.
The Groups current policies on disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the non-audit services are: external auditors.
Audit related services These are services that the auditors must undertake or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would generally provide all Group and the auditors.
This review includes: such services.
the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are payable to specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which work being undertaken.
have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select an or offices of the same firm are involved: and advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work process on an annual basis in the context of the wider assurance processes being undertaken.
As well as undertaking its own assessment of the audit The auditors are only permitted to provide non-audit services to the Group effectiveness, the Committee also considers the views of a number of finance when the Audit Committee and the auditors are satisfied that there are no managers from various parts of the Group.
The auditor assessment circumstances that would lead to a threat to the audit teams independence questionnaire is completed on an annual basis and examines three main or a conflict of interest that could not be effectively safeguarded.
performance criteria robustness of the audit process, quality of delivery and In addition to the audit fee,  LLP received non-audit quality of people and service.
This assessment also includes consideration of related fees of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m, which equate to 12.5% 2014: 12.5% of the auditors independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant laws, the audit fee and further details of which can be found in note 3 of the regulations and professional requirements.
The assessment involves consolidated financial statements.
considering all relationships between the Group and the auditors, including the nature and quantum of non-audit services.
Assurances are obtained from The Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services does the auditors that they and their staff have no financial, business, not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit employment, family or other personal relationship with the Group that could obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of affect the auditors independence and objectivity, taking account of relevant the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used ethical standards.
The auditors explain to the Audit Committee their policies where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
Committee will, however, of course review its policy on non-audit services from time to time, to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations, The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each year including European Union legislation.
before making a recommendation to the Board and shareholders.
The Committee assesses the independence and effectiveness of the external In May 2014, the European Commission published a directive amending the auditor on an ongoing basis and the ethical standards require that, other than Statutory Audit Directive and a new Audit Regulation.
The new Audit in exceptional circumstances, the individual audit partner responsible for the Regulation has the direct effect of law and European Union member states, Group audit may not undertake the role for a period of more than five years.
including the UK, are required to adopt provisions to ensure its effective The current lead partner has been in place for four years.
The new Audit Regulation stipulates that a statutory auditor of a have been in place since 2002 and this was the last year an audit tender was public-interest entity, which would include the Company, shall not provide conducted.
certain non-audit services to that entity, its parent undertaking and or its subsidiary undertakings within the European Union.
The Companys auditors The Committee recognises the current requirements in relation to audit tendering, which were published by the European Union during the year and will therefore be prohibited from providing certain non-audit services to the Group that are not currently prohibited.
The new requirements come into have been reflected in a final order published by the UKs Competition and Markets Authority, effective on 1 January 2015.
Transitional arrangements effect on 17 June 2016 and shall first apply to the Group in respect of its require a change in the Groups external auditors by 2023.
At its April 2015 financial year ending 30 April 2017.
The Financial Reporting Council is meeting, the Committee confirmed its intention to conduct a formal tender consulting on the implementation of the Statutory Audit Directive and the new process prior to 1 May 2016, such that a change of auditors, if any, occurs Audit Regulation in the UK.
The Audit Committee will continue to oversee the following the end of the five-year term of the current lead audit partner in Groups compliance with laws and regulations in this area and will update its 2016.
We currently expect that any new auditors would undertake the audit policies to reflect developments in laws and regulations.
page 36 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 37 production of the Annual Report and financial statements as operating 5.4.
4 Internal auditors effectively during the year, and was able to provide positive assurance to the The Committee has received several reports from Deloitte, which manages the Board on the fair, balanced and understandable conclusion.
outsourced Risk Assurance Function internal auditors, detailing the planned schedule of audits as well as tracking key findings and any related material In advising the Board, the Audit Committee noted that: actions to address unsatisfactory results.
Deloitte attended all meetings of the The Board considers the key risks facing the Group and the Audit Committee Committee, in addition to meeting privately with the Committee without the considered how these link to the description of principal risks and presence of management.
uncertainties in the Annual Report: The Audit Committee has the responsibility for making recommendations on The Board considers the strategy of the Group and its short and long-term the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group Risk objectives: Assurance Function.
There have been no instances of disagreements between The Board receives four-weekly updates on the actual financial performance the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the Risk Assurance Function.
of the Group and significant developments affecting the Group: The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance The Board receives summaries of significant media coverage relevant to the function on an annual basis.
This assessment includes a consideration of Group: independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the quality of the risk The Board annually reviews and approves the Groups budget and is updated assurance process, and the role of the function in the context of the broader at least twice a year on an updated forecast of financial performance for the sources of risk assurance.
Deloitte has managed the Risk Assurance Function year: since 2002, and as a matter of good corporate governance practice, the The Audit Committee receives updates on developments in accounting Committee intends to formally tender this function in conjunction with the standards and other relevant laws and regulations: planned external audit tender noted in section 5.4.
The Audit Committee receives updates on key areas such as treasury, taxation and audit: 5.4.
5 Code of Conduct and Speaking Up Policy The Audit Committee and the Board generally have the opportunity to The Audit Committee reviews compliance with the Groups Code of Conduct consider, comment and request changes to the Annual Report and other and use of the Groups Speaking Up policy, which provides a mechanism for price-sensitive documents prior to publication: employees with serious concerns about the conduct of the Group or its The preparation of the front end of the Annual Report includes the employees to report those concerns.
The Committee ensures that appropriate Corporate Communications team, the Company Secretariat, and Group arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular interest in any reports of Finance as well as Divisional management validating the appropriateness of the material relating to the relevant division.
The involvement of these possible improprieties in financial reporting.
various groups helps ensure the balance, completeness and accuracy of the All known instances of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the Group front end: were reported to and considered by the Committee, although there were no The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors, the such matters that were sufficiently material to merit disclosure in the Annual internal auditors and management in respect of various matters including Report.
The Committee also received and considered updates on litigation the financial statements: involving the Group, although other than the Twin America litigation referred to in section 5.4.
1 above, there were no such matters that were sufficiently The external auditors report on whether the fair, balanced and material to merit separate disclosure in the Annual Report.
understandable statement is materially consistent with their knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing their audit.
6 Other activities The Audit Committees assessment considered whether: The Committee has considered a range of other matters at its three meetings Appropriate weight had been given to bad news as well as good news in over the last year and received various reports and presentations as follows: the Annual Report: A presentation was received from the Group Tax Director on the Groups tax The description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, strategy and affairs, significant tax accounting judgements and tax risks.
The Group objectives in the Annual Report was consistent with the Boards Treasury team gave a presentation on the Groups treasury affairs and understanding: management of treasury risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties were consistent with the Group risk The Committee considered reports on the planned external audit and Risk register: Assurance Function tenders.
The Annual Report was presented in an understandable way.
As part of the Committees ongoing training and development, both management and the external auditors updated the Committee on The Audit Committee also noted the established internal control and risk developments in accounting standards, auditing standards, guidance for management systems in relation to the process for preparing consolidated audit committees, the Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance financial statements.
Code, legislation affecting the Group more generally and other relevant regulatory developments and guidance.
5.5 Committee evaluation The Committee considered reports from the Audit Committee of Virgin Rail The Committees activities formed part of the internal review of Board Group on matters relevant to that joint venture.
The Groups Finance effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this review are provided in Director is Chairman of the Virgin Rail Group Audit Committee.
Overall, the Committee considers that it has continued to operate effectively during the year.
Minutes of the Treasury Committee meetings comprising members of management were shared with the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviewed a summary of the Directors expense claims.
7 Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Audit Committee advised the Board on whether it considers the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and to provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee assessed the controls and processes in place in respect of the Stagecoach Group plc | page 37
