SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Euan and the Committee have conducted a review of the Principal functions Director changes executive team structure to define clear accountability for The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating In October 2014, following a review of potential external delivery of the five year strategic plan and to ensure the right Financial Financial candidates for Board positions and ensuring that the Company candidates proposed by an independent external search Statements.
leadership structure is in place to lead the business through a has the leadership and senior management to meet its growth consultancy, the Committee recommended to the Board that complex period of growth in new territories.
The need for two ambitions.
The principal functions of the Nomination Committee Euan Sutherland should be appointed as Chief Executive Officer new Executive Committee roles has been identified: a Retail are: and his appointment to the Board was approved.
Director, harmonising the leadership of our Retail businesses to review the structure, size, composition and balance of the Following Euans move from a non-executive director to his across the world: and a Transformation Director, leading Board and recommend changes where appropriate: executive role, the Committee launched a recruitment process strategic infrastructure programmes and the development of using an independent external search consultancy Egon Retail and Wholesale business in new territories.
Paula Kerrigan to consider and recommend succession planning for Zehnder for a replacement and Penny Hughes was appointed will join the Group in September 2015 as Transformation executive and non-executive directors: as a non-executive director in April 2015.
Paula previously held senior leadership roles with to identify and nominate candidates for approval of the Board Kingfisher Plc and the Co-operative Group.
As a consequence of the above appointments a number of to fill Board vacancies or new positions as and when they arise: changes were made to committee memberships during the Composition and diversity to approve appointments to the Executive Committee: and year.
Euan Sutherland and Julian Dunkerton resigned from The Nomination Committee continues to review the composition to evaluate the skills, experience and knowledge of Board the Nomination Committee in October 2014.
Minnow Powell of the Board and membership of Board Committees and has members.
was appointed to the Nomination Committee in October 2014 agreed a plan of action to address succession and diversity.
and resigned in April 2015: Ken McCall was appointed to the The role of secretary to the Nomination Committee is performed In particular, the Nomination Committee takes the view that Remuneration Committee in October 2014: Keith Edelman by the Company Secretary.
the role of women is important at all levels in SuperGroup.
At was appointed to the Audit Committee in October 2014 the end of the year, 12% of the Board, 38% of the Executive and resigned in April 2015 when the Board approved the Activities during the year Committee and 44% of senior managers were female.
This appointment of Penny Hughes to the Board, the Nomination The Nomination Committee met nine times during the year.
In demonstrates an improvement in gender diversity at every Committee and Audit Committee.
addition to the members of the Nomination Committee, the level of leadership across the organisation, which we seek to Director of HR attended each of the meetings.
Hans Schmitt, Susanne Given and Shaun Wills all left the Company during the year.
Neither Hans Schmitt nor Susanne The prime focus this year has been on the selection and Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Given have been replaced as their responsibilities have appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, overseeing a been reorganised following Euans appointment as Chief Peter Bamford series of changes to Board composition and ensuring that the Executive Officer.
The Nomination Committee launched a full Nomination Committee Chairman Company has the right talent in key roles to realise its growth recruitment process to fill the role of Chief Financial Officer and 8 July 2015 potential in existing and new markets.
recommended the appointment of Nick Wharton, who was During the year, the Nomination Committee monitored the appointed on 24 June 2015.
Nick, who had been covering the performance of the senior team and reviewed the organisational role on an interim basis since February, brings deep financial structure.
It also ensured that key individuals were given support management skills as well as broad retail and business and mentoring where appropriate.
experience from his roles with various retailers.
Key talent risks and succession plans for the executive directors None of the existing executive directors hold non-executive and senior leaders were reviewed in both October 2014 and in directorships with companies outside the Group.
Nick Wharton April 2015 and actions put in place to mitigate identified risks.
will continue to be a non-executive director of Mothercare Plc.
