SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
The division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Code compliance The Board Executive Officer, and the role and duties of the Senior The following, together with the directors biographies on pages The Board is responsible collectively for promoting our success Independent Director, are set out in writing and agreed by the Financial Financial 51 to 52, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to and for implementing the business model and strategy as Statements.
These were reviewed during the year.
Keith Edelman is 84, the Directors Report on pages 85 to 86, the Nomination set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 49.
The Board the Groups Senior Independent Director a summary of his Committee Report on page 63 and the Audit Committee Report provides leadership for the Group and concentrates its efforts responsibilities is available on our website at on pages 58 to 62 provide an explanation of how the principles on strategy, performance, governance and internal control, as www.
of the Code have been applied and detail areas of nonset out in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The non-executive directors meet with the Chairman separately The Board meets regularly to consider issues relating to our on a regular basis normally the evening before each Board We complied throughout the year with the provisions set out overall performance, strategy and future development.
In meeting without the executive directors present there have in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial accordance with the Code, the schedule of matters reserved for been four such meetings during the year.
In addition, the Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code and the UK the Board has been reviewed and approved.
non-executive directors have each spoken to the Senior FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules in all material respects The principal matters reserved for the Board are: Independent Director to appraise the performance of the other than as set out below.
setting and managing Group strategy: The following details areas of non-compliance during the year, all All members of the Board of Directors and the Board of which have now been remedied: changes relating to the Groups capital structure including committees have sufficient resources and budget to allow share issues and buy-backs: From 1 May 2014 to 25 February 2015, less than half of access to independent advice as required.
the Board excluding the Chairman was considered to be reviewing and approving financial reporting: All directors have access to the advice and services of the independent.
oversight of maintenance of sound internal controls and risk Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board For the period from 21 October 2014 to 30 October 2014, the management: procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of composition of the Audit Committee was not compliant with the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
approving capital expenditure and long-term commitments: the Code as it had only two members.
This was as a result Operational matters, trading performance and the development of Euan Sutherland resigning from his role as non-executive Board membership and appointment: of proposals for the Board, where required under the schedule director and assuming the role of Chief Executive Officer and approving remuneration policy for directors, the Company of matters reserved for the Board, are controlled by the was addressed with the appointment of Keith Edelman to the Secretary and other senior executives: Executive Committee that consists of the Chief Executive Officer, Audit Committee on 30 October 2014.
Chief Financial Officer, Founder, Product and Brand Director, delegation of authority: and The Board is considered to be of a sufficient size and balance Founder, Brand and Design Director, Sales and Marketing to meet the requirements of the business.
The composition of Director, Director of HR and Head of Merchandising, advised approval of corporate governance and Company policies.
the Board has been strengthened by the appointment of Penny by the Group General Counsel.
In addition, in order to facilitate The requirement for Board approval on these matters is Hughes, who joined the Board on 1 April 2015.
She is a highly effective decision making and communication, the Operating understood by our senior management team and is built into our experienced director with extensive public company expertise Group comprising the Director of IT, Group Financial Controller, control framework.
in the consumer sector both as an executive and as a nonHead of Logistics, Head of Sourcing, Head of International executive director.
Development, Head of UK Retail, Head of e-commerce and The Board receives appropriate and timely information to enable Head of International Retail joins the Executive Committee The Strategic Report includes the information needed for it to discharge its duties.
shareholders to assess our performance, business model and strategy and is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
co. uk 53 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Report.
The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain As reported in our last Annual Report, our single largest Directors conflicts of interest duties.
These committees are detailed below.
Each of these shareholder is Julian Dunkerton, one of the founders of the Our Articles of Association permit the directors to consider committees is chaired by a separate chairman and has written Company.
We and Julian Dunkerton entered into a relationship and, if thought fit, authorise situations where a director has an terms of reference which are available on our website.
agreement on 12 March 2010 which was amended on 9 July interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the Groups 2014 to regulate our ongoing relationship in accordance with the interests.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential Minutes are prepared for each of these committee meetings Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that, since the entry into the conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act in a way they by the Company Secretary and presented at the following amended Relationship Agreement until 8 July 2015: consider would be most likely to promote the Groups success respective meetings for approval.
All committees have sufficient and they may impose limits or conditions when giving their resources to undertake their duties.
i we have complied with the independence provisions authorisation, or subsequently, if they think it is appropriate.
Any included in the Relationship Agreement: As at the date of the Annual Report, the Board has nine authorisation given is recorded in the Board minutes.
The Board members: the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive ii so far as we are aware, the independence provision included will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest Officer, three other executive directors and four non-executive in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by on a regular basis.
Euan Sutherland was appointed as Chief Executive Julian Dunkerton: and Relationship agreement Officer on 22 October 2014, having previously been an iii so far as we are aware, the procurement obligation included Any person who exercises or controls, on their own or together independent non-executive director of the Company since in the Relationship Agreement has been complied with by with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% 1 December 2012, Penny Hughes was appointed as a Julian Dunkerton.
or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially non-executive director on 1 April 2015 and Nick Wharton all matters at general meetings of a company are known as was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 24 June 2015.
The Listing Rules require companies Biographies of the directors appear on pages 51 to 52.
The Our annual Board evaluation to assess the performance of the with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally Nomination Committee continues to monitor Board composition Board, our non-executive directors and committees was carried binding agreement which is intended to ensure that the and succession with a view to ensuring compliance with out between March and May 2015.
The Company Secretarial controlling shareholder complies with certain independence the Code.
team managed this internally using a set of questions covering a provisions.
The agreement must contain undertakings that: range of issues including processes, responsibilities, the balance Non-executive director independence of skills, experience, independence and knowledge, diversity a transactions and arrangements with the controlling The independence of the non-executive directors is considered and a number of other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted annually along with their commitment and performance on the Every third year the evaluation is facilitated by an independent at arms length and on normal commercial terms: Board and relevant committees.
All non-executive directors are external adviser in accordance with the Code.
Consequently, considered by the Board to be independent of management and b neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates an independent external evaluation will be undertaken in 2016. free from any relationship that could interfere materially with the will take any action that would have the effect of preventing The performance of the executive directors during the year exercise of their independent judgement.
the listed company from complying with its obligations under was monitored by the Chief Executive Officer and Nomination the Listing Rules: and A clause is included in their letters of appointment setting out Committee.
c neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates The Board evaluation carried out this year highlighted that will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder Having considered the Chairmans commitments, the Board improvements could be made to the administration of the resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to is satisfied that he has adequate time to be able to act Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings, circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
and there was general consensus that the Board should continue to provide sufficient time to focus on strategic matters, particularly those associated with international growth notably in the USA and China.
co. uk 54 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Re-election of directors Board and committee attendance As at the AGM in 2014, all directors will again offer themselves The table below gives details of directors attendance at scheduled Board and committee meetings during FY15: Financial Financial for election or re-election as appropriate.
Board Meeting Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee directors offering themselves for election or re-election to be Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number effective, committed to their roles and to have sufficient time Maximum Number eligible attended eligible attended eligible attended eligible attended available to perform their duties.
Peter Bamford 8 8 9 9 Board committees Julian Dunkerton 8 8 5 5 The Board has three committees.
Committee membership as at 8 July 2015 was as set out below.
Keith Edelman 8 8 3 3 9 9 7 7 James Holder 8 8 Audit Committee: Minnow Powell Chairman Penny Hughes 1 1 1 1 Penny Hughes Ken McCall 8 8 7 6 3 3 Ken McCall Minnow Powell 8 8 7 7 3 3 7 7 Nomination Committee: Peter Bamford Chairman Euan Sutherland 8 8 3 3 5 5 4 3 Keith Edelman Hans Schmitt Penny Hughes resigned 31 December 2014 5 5 Remuneration Committee: Keith Edelman Chairman Susanne Given Ken McCall resigned 12 February 2015 6 5 Minnow Powell Shaun Wills resigned 25 February 2015 6 6 A description of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is set out on pages 58 to 84.
During the year, additional ad hoc Board meetings were held as In addition, the non-executive directors make site visits to The terms of reference of each committee are documented required.
From time to time, committee meetings are attended ensure that they are kept up to date with developments across and agreed by the Board and are available on our website by non-members by invitation from the relevant Chairman.
In October 2014, the Board visited a number of our at www.
The terms and conditions of Attendance is set out in the relevant committee minutes.
owned stores in Germany to understand better the strategic appointment for each director are available for inspection at approach to and operational management of our Retail business our registered office.
Information and professional development outside the UK.
Non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet with All directors have received instruction on their responsibilities as members of the Executive Committee, Operating Group and a director and have also received and approved our competition wider management team to gain first-hand experience of the law, data protection and information security policies.
Senior managers regularly attend Board meetings to make presentations to the directors.
This year, these Diversity presentations have included such topics as our approach to We believe in respecting individuals and their rights in the product development, sourcing strategies, buying product, workplace.
Please see page 31 of the Strategic Report for more IT projects, corporate social responsibility and environmental information about our approach to our people and diversity.
co. uk 55 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Report.
the Executive Committee, with oversight provided by the Audit We have established investment appraisal and authorisation Communication with shareholders Committee, which meets every month to review the risks procedures and our capital expenditure is reviewed against We recognise the importance of communicating with our identified, agree mitigating actions and discuss any new risks.
budgets which have been approved by the Board.
Communication with institutional shareholders is Where new risks are identified, they are scaled according to undertaken as part of our investor relations programme in which We assess routinely the capability of our people to deliver their likelihood and potential impact, and then monitored.
These the non-executive directors are encouraged to participate.
the business objectives set and respond accordingly.
During systems are in place to manage rather than eliminate risk and The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make FY15, it was recognised that there is a need to focus on can provide only reasonable and not complete assurance presentations after the preliminary and interim results and succession planning to ensure that, where there is a loss of against material misstatement or loss.
The principal risks and communicate regularly on developments to our shareholders.
key personnel, we have the ability to operate in both the short uncertainties are reviewed twice each year by the Board.
The Chairman arranges meetings with institutional shareholders The role of the Executive Committee is to implement Board to gain a balanced understanding of their views and concerns Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken policies on risk and control and the Board has delegated dayand to discuss strategic development and corporate where necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through to-day management to the Chief Executive Officer and, through governance.
The Chairman ensures that the views of our internal control and risk management processes.
him, to the other executive directors and members of the shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
Executive Committee and Operating Group.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the The Chairman is in regular communication with our significant effectiveness of internal controls during the year and confirms that: During the year, a more comprehensive control framework private shareholders, Julian Dunkerton and James Holder.
was implemented which delegates authority for both financial there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and During the year, the Chairman has discussed Board and operational activities, the aim being to increase the level of managing our significant risks: composition, governance and the strategic approach to responsibility and embed a culture of compliance through the entering new markets with our shareholders.
this has been in place for the year and up to the date of organisation.
The key elements of the control framework and approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: Our AGM will be held on 9 September 2015, at which time review processes in place are as follows: shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions of the process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and The Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives.
the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, together with all other members of the Board the process accords with the Code.
The Executive Committee integrates these objectives into of Directors.
their operational and financial business plans.
In addition, the Board also reviewed the effectiveness of the Our shareholders have the opportunity to meet non-executive risk management process in the year.
Whilst satisfactory, it The Executive Committee meets regularly, together with the directors at additional times in the year.
concluded that improvements could be made and further Operating Group normally twice each month, to consider enhancements have been made to: our operational and financial performance and business The Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available development.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board to all of our shareholders and potential investors.
Other widen the Risk Committee membership to include the Director on behalf of the Executive Committee on significant changes information about us is made available on our website.
of IT and the Group Programme Manager: in the business and the external environment.
The Chief invite the heads of each function to present their risks and Financial Statements Financial Officer provides the Board with financial information answer any questions each year: and The Board is ultimately responsible for approving the Annual which includes key performance and risk indicators.
Report and Financial Statements and the half year report.
ensure there is clear ownership of each risk identified.
We operate a risk management process which is integrated within the short and long-term business planning processes.
Internal control and risk management Our directors powers In accordance with the guidance for directors on internal control, Our treasury position, including cash and foreign exchange, is Our directors have delegated authority to manage the the Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, managed in accordance with our approved treasury policy.
operations of SuperGroup subject to the limitations contained evaluating and managing the risks we face.
This process in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, the terms of Financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity was put in place prior to the IPO in March 2010, underwent reference of the Board committees and our Group delegated analysis, are prepared routinely throughout the year for review significant review in 2012, and has continued to be developed authority statement.
by the Executive Committee and the Board.
We have a Risk Committee that reports into www.
co. uk 56 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Political contributions Share capital Annual General Meeting We have not made any political donations during the year.
Details of our share capital are set out in the Directors Report Our AGM will be held at Cheltenham Ladies College, Bayshill Financial Financial on page 85.
Road, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, GL50 3EP on 9 September Statements.
Directors indemnity insurance 2015 commencing at 11.30am.
The notice of this years AGM is The Directors Report was approved by the Board of Directors We maintain directors and officers liability insurance which included in a separate circular to shareholders and will be sent on 8 July 2015. gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against our out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
This notice is directors and or officers.
In accordance with section 236 of the available to view under the Investors section of our website Going concern Companies Act 2006, qualifying third party indemnity provisions www.
In accordance with the Code, all valid Our business activities and growth strategy, together with are in place for the directors in respect of liabilities incurred as proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted, are factors likely to affect our future development, performance and a result of their office, as far as is permitted by law.
Both the made available at the AGM and published on our website after position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 49 insurance and indemnities applied throughout the year and the meeting.
and Performance section on pages 36 to 45. continue through to the date of this Directors Report.
The notice of this years AGM sets out why we believe the The directors have reviewed our forecasts and projections.
Change of control directors should be re-elected.
Details of the directors service These include assumptions around our products, expenditure The provisions of our employee share plans may cause agreements and letters of appointment are given in the commitments and expected cash flows.
Taking into account options and awards granted under such plans to vest upon a Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 84. possible changes in trading performance and after making change of control.
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the The directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions Company has adequate resources to continue our operations to be presented at the AGM is in our best interests and those Substantial shareholdings for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, we have continued of our shareholders and employees as a whole and is most As at 6 July 2015, we had been notified, in accordance with to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, of the following Statements.
of its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously substantial interests in our ordinary share capital see table below : recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of the Independent auditors At 6 July proposed resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of At 25 April At 6 July 2015 On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the their own shareholdings.
Name of holder 2015 2015 % held directors will put a resolution before the AGM to reappoint  LLP as auditors for the ensuing year.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Julian Dunkerton 26,088,944 26,088,944 32.21 Lindsay Beardsell James Holder 9,667,190 9,667,190 11.94 Company Secretary Standard Life 8 July 2015 Investments 7,799,164 7,799,164 9.63 Registered Office: Artemis Investment Unit 60 Management 4,205,695 4,205,695 5.19 The Runnings Oppenheimer Cheltenham 3,549,310 4,087,930 5.05 Funds Gloucestershire GL51 9NW Old Mutual Global Investors 3,912,179 3,912,179 4.83 Theo Karpathios 3,221,219 3,221,219 3.98 www.
