SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Audit Committee Report.
The Audit Committee has a standing agenda of areas to be Dear shareholder, covered at each meeting based on its terms of reference and I am pleased to present my report to shareholders on the key in addition it considers relevant matters as they arise.
The Audit activities undertaken by the Audit Committee during the year in Committee has met seven times during the year and reports accordance with its principal responsibilities which are to: were provided to the subsequent Board meeting.
monitor the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements, I am satisfied that the Audit Committee was presented with the half year report and any formal announcements relating papers of good quality during the year, provided in a timely to the Groups financial performance, reviewing significant fashion to allow due consideration of the subjects under financial reporting judgements contained therein, together review.
I am also satisfied that meetings were scheduled to with compliance with accounting standards and other legal allow sufficient time to enable full and informed debate.
We and regulatory requirements: also reviewed our terms of reference during the year, including comparing them against the Code, and these were approved by review the Groups internal financial controls and internal the Board.
These are available at www.
control and risk management systems, by considering reports on their effectiveness from the Chief Financial Officer and, No significant matters were raised in the annual evaluation of when in role, the Chief Operating Officer, together with reports the Audit Committees performance, although as the control from both the internal and external auditors: environment matures we plan to reduce the number of meetings in the future.
review the Groups controls and systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 and The qualifications of each of the Audit Committee members the Groups whistleblowing policy: are set out in the details of the Board of Directors on pages 51 to 52. review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and ensure that it is adequately resourced: Minnow Powell Audit Committee Chairman recommend to the Board the appointment, reappointment 8 July 2015 and removal of the external auditors and to approve their remuneration and terms of their engagement: review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity, the effectiveness of the external audit process and the audit plan: and review the engagement of the external auditors to ensure that the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm does not impair its independence or objectivity.
co. uk 58 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
The Audit Committee has noted the continued focus the replacement finance system was operational from August Audit Committee and improvement in the risk management process and the 2014 and is now being rolled out across our European The members of the Audit Committee during the year were: strengthening of internal controls during the year.
The implementation of the business information Financial Financial Statements.
Audit Committee Resignation reporting system will be completed by the end of 2015.
Member member since date Risk management process Given the significant IT improvements being undertaken by the The identification and management of key risks for the Group is Minnow Powell Group, the Audit Committee has continued to focus on the achieved through a risk register which is formally reviewed and Chairman 1 December 2012 development of the IT control environment.
Senior management updated by management on a regular basis to ensure that it is have also provided reports on the Groups compliance with the Ken McCall 24 May 2010 focused on real, current and significant business risks and that Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS, and IT mitigating actions are feasible.
The internal Risk Committee, Euan Sutherland 1 December 2012 21 October 2014 security risks, key issues and development of the related controls.
whose members include the Chief Financial Officer, Group A business continuity planning BCP programme has been General Counsel, Director of IT and Group Programme Manager, Keith Edelman 30 October 2014 16 April 2015 developed and will continue to be enhanced over the remainder meets on a monthly basis to review the risk register, assess the of 2015.
A disaster recovery DR plan which focuses on the major Penny Hughes 1 April 2015 appropriateness of key risks and then make recommendations IT components critical to business operations is now in place with to the Board and Audit Committee.
In 2015 the process has the final areas due to be completed by the end of 2015. been reviewed and re-positioned to reflect the growing scale, All of the Audit Committee members are non-executive maturity and complexity of the Group.
The key advantages are: directors.
The Board considers them all to be independent Delegated authorities and the biographies of each of the members are set out in heightened awareness of risk and greater accountability for We have developed a delegated authority framework to allow pages 51 to 52.
At least one member Minnow Powell, the management of risk at all levels within the organisation: the business to make operational decisions and sign contracts Audit Committee Chairman has recent and relevant financial within agreed authority levels.
The Audit Committee reviewed experience.
robust assessment and identification of mid-tier risks: and and challenged the framework prior to Board approval in improved integration of risk, mitigation and key business December 2014.
By invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit outsourced to continuity processes.
Other KPMG LLP, other senior managers, external auditors and The Audit Committee has reviewed the revised risk management The Audit Committee has continued to review other key formerly the Chief Operating Officer also attend Audit Committee process and recommended to the Board that the process be areas of risk and internal controls including accounts payable, meetings.
intercompany, treasury, tax and credit control management The role of the Audit Committee secretary is performed by the with presentations given by the manager responsible.
Audit Committee also discussed with management the risk and The upgrade of the core business infrastructure was a controls over fraud, and the risk of financial misstatements by At least once a year the Committee meets separately with significant investment programme approved by the Board to the breaching of laws and regulations.
the external auditors and Head of Internal Audit without be completed by 2015.
The programme covered new systems, management present.
and replacement or upgrades to a number of the Groups Following the nature of the departure of the previous Chief core existing systems and facilities.
The programme has been Financial Officer in February 2015, the Board commissioned The principal matters under consideration during the year are substantially delivered and, during the year, the following key KPMG to provide independent assurance that there was no set out below.
projects were successfully completed: related breakdown of financial controls, and KMPG confirmed Internal control and risk management that, based on agreed procedures performed, there was no the new point of sale POS system was rolled out across UK The Audit Committee has continued to review and discuss evidence of a related breakdown.
and European Retail stores: with management the Groups process for and evaluation and upgrade to the integrated system Styleman for production assessment of its internal controls and management of risk.
The orders, sales orders and sales ledger: and review focuses on the effectiveness of the risk management process including financial, operational, technical and compliance risks and related controls which are described on www.
co. uk 59 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Audit Committee Report.
Financial reporting and accounting judgements The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Financial Statements of the Group and all formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
The review considers the integrity of the reporting, the appropriateness and acceptability of accounting policies and practices, and compliance with financial reporting standards and requirements.
For accounting judgements, the Committee considered detailed papers from management and the views of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee considers that the Group has adopted appropriate accounting policies and made appropriate estimates and judgements where required.
The primary area of accounting judgements and issues reviewed by the Audit Committee for the current year are set out below: Area Issue How addressed Acquisition accounting, Material items are outside the The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the acquisition accounting for the purchase of the assets of SDUSA LLC licence and contract normal course of business and are and the acquisition of the SMAC group of companies SMAC A S, SMAC Retail A S and SMAC Norge A S including judgements termination, and adequately disclosed.
taken in relation to forecasts used, fair values ascribed to assets and liabilities acquired, identification of intangible assets and other exceptional and resulting goodwill bargain purchase.
Fair values are appropriately remeasurement items determined at the date of The Committee considered the nature and size of costs categorised as exceptional to include whether they met the definition of acquisition.
an exceptional, being material in size, unusual, or infrequent in nature, or are remeasurements.
The Committee has reviewed the exceptional and remeasurement items as disclosed in Note 13 to the Financial Statements and is satisfied that the categorisation is appropriate.
Deferred tax assets are not considered a primary area of judgement for 2015 as the tax benefit in relation to the Wholesale business and the non-recognition for the Retail business has now been agreed with HM Revenue and Customs.
Other areas that have been discussed and considered by the Audit Committee in relation to the 2015 Annual Report are: Area Issue How addressed Provisions for inventory, Management judgement is For each provision, the Committee considered and challenged the judgements made by management and assessed the available returns, receivables and required and estimates are used evidence, including historic trends, and concluded that the provisions were appropriate.
property to support the provisions.
Goodwill reallocation The goodwill allocation between In respect of goodwill, the Committee considered and challenged the basis of allocation between the Wholesale and Retail CGUs, review Cash Generating Units CGUs is and concluded that the judgements used were suitable for use in the goodwill allocation.
Going concern The appropriateness of The Committee reviewed the cash flow forecasts and concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going preparation of the accounts on a concern basis.
Revenue recognition Revenue for Wholesale sales is The Committee has reviewed managements policy for credit note provisions and the controls in place over the Wholesale recognised in the appropriate invoicing process, and are satisfied they are appropriate.
Complex supplier Any accounting policies, The Committee has reviewed with management the commercial arrangements with suppliers and has concluded that the arrangements judgements and estimates business has no complex supplier arrangements.
arising from complex supplier arrangements are adequately disclosed.
co. uk 60 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
The effectiveness of internal audit is reviewed on an ongoing Fraud, whistleblowing and bribery Supervision of the external auditors basis by the Audit Committee, by discussion and assessment The Group has a policy and process in place for fraud, security The Audit Committee oversees the external auditors by with senior management on the issues identified by the internal Financial Financial and whistleblowing and the Audit Committee is satisfied that reviewing and approving the audit plan and ensuring that it Statements.
audit reports, and through the regular follow up at meetings on employees have the opportunity to raise concerns in confidence is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The progress on the recommended actions.
A formal review was about possible fraudulent activity and any other concerns Committee meets regularly with the external auditors, both with undertaken in September 2014 and no significant concerns that arise within the organisation.
The Committee is also and without management present.
During the review of the were identified.
satisfied that arrangements are in place for proportionate and audit plan, the Committee discussed and agreed those financial independent investigation of such matters, including appropriate statement risk areas identified by the auditors that required External audit effectiveness and integrity of follow-up action.
additional audit emphasis and discussed and challenged the the Groups relationship auditors assessment of materiality.
The audit opinion on pages During the year the Audit Committee received an update on The Audit Committee reviews, with the external auditors, the 88 to 94 provides a full explanation of the auditors assessment instances of fraud within the Group and a summary of the calls audit plan and the outcome and findings of the annual external of material misstatement, concept of materiality and scope of to the whistleblowing helpline together with follow up actions audit.
In reviewing the audit plan the Audit Committee: the audit.
noted and challenged the key areas of risk raised by Reappointment of external auditors Controls and procedures surrounding anti-bribery monitoring  PwC : Based on the assessment of effectiveness and independence of to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 were put in the external auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended understood the basis of materiality and requested that all place by the Group in 2014 and the Audit Committee receives the reappointment of for the next financial year.
The potential adjustments and errors above 0.1m be reported to a regular report on the Groups gift register which includes appointment of PwC the external auditors will continue to be the Audit Committee: and any gifts and hospitality received by employees from external reviewed annually and a tendering process will be undertaken business relationships above an agreed threshold.
ensured, as part of their procedures, that the auditor if the Committee considers it appropriate.
PwC have been understood the nature of each balance sheet account.
the Groups auditors since the IPO in 2010, and, prior to this, Internal audit effectiveness auditors to the legacy SuperGroup companies since 2008.
The The internal audit function has continued to develop and In addition, the Committee approves the scope and fees for Committee notes that under current regulations, the audit will improve its effectiveness during the year.
The ongoing review the external audit and is responsible for recommending the need to be tendered in time for the audit for the year ended of an audit universe, and the outputs from the Risk Committee, appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors.
2018. has enabled the role of internal audit and scope of its work to Effectiveness of external audit continue to evolve to take account of changes within the Group A review of the effectiveness of external audit in September and emerging best practice.
The annual review of the internal 2014 was undertaken by an internal survey of members of audit plan ensures that the coming year is planned and following the Audit Committee, Chief Financial Officer, and the internal two years agreed in outline so that areas of focus are audited finance team.
The Committee noted that areas for improvement at least once over the course of the three year plan.
During the identified in 2013 had been addressed.
We also reviewed the year, internal audit has delivered ten audits including coverage of AQRT report on PwC as a firm and noted the key findings.
We the following areas: European subsidiaries, treasury, expenses, were satisfied that our external auditors continued to perform HR and payroll, IT, trade marks and intellectual property, pricing, effectively and will use the new FRC guidance on effectiveness public reporting, and follow up reports on retail operations, when we carry out the 2015 review.
product development, IT and e-commerce.
co. uk 61 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Audit Committee Report.
Details of all non-audit services provided during the year are set Independence out within the note on auditors remuneration on page 117 and Auditor independence is maintained by reviewing PwCs are summarised in the table below: confirmation of their independence and the threat thereto, monitoring the nature and value of non-audit services carried 2015 2014 out, and ensuring that employees of the external auditors m m who have worked on the audit in the past two years are not Audit fees 0.3 0.3 appointed, without prior approval of the Audit Committee, to senior financial positions within the Company.
In addition, the Non-audit fees rotation of the lead partner occurs every five years.
Tax compliance and advisory 0.1 0.3 The Audit Committee assessed the independence of the Other 0.1 0.1 external auditors and concluded that they were independent.
Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.4 Non-audit services The general policy in respect of non-audit work by the external Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees 74% 150% auditors is that they should not be requested to carry out Non-audit fees were 100% or above in 2014 primarily due to non-audit services on any material activity of the Group where ongoing tax advisory services and the appointment of PwC for they may, in the future, be required to give an audit opinion or other work, including due-diligence on the acquisition of US act as management, in accordance with the Audit Practices assets from SDUSA LLC, where an experienced understanding Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In certain limited areas of the Groups structure and business was required to be able to it is in the Groups and its shareholders interests to engage the provide appropriate assurance work.
Tax advisory services were external audit firm to deliver certain services.
To protect auditor tendered during the year and Grant Thornton was appointed as objectivity and independence the Audit Committee approves the Groups tax adviser in October 2014, which has reduced the each individual non-audit service above 20,000 in value and threat to independence for PwC as external auditors.
every piece of work once an agreed threshold is reached.
The Committee has reviewed and agreed the non-audit services as set out above provided by the external auditors, together with the associated fees, and is satisfied that these did not prejudice the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Minnow Powell Audit Committee Chairman 8 July 2015 www.
