Board of Directors RC NC SEB SEB SEB Sir Duncan Nichol Dr Richard Steeves Gavin Hill Dr Adrian Coward Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Group Chief Operating Officer Sir Duncan became a non-executive Richard founded the business in 1991 Gavin joined Synergy Health as Group Adrian was appointed Group Chief Director in November 2002.
He and was appointed Chief Executive Finance Director in April 2010.
Gavin Operating Officer in March 2014. waschief executive of the NHS Officer in 1992.
Previously he was became responsible for the HCS Adrian joined the Group in 2004 as Management Executive between 1989 corporate development manager for service line on 1 April 2014.
He was Director of IT, and subsequently held and 1994, a non-executive director of Braithwaite plc, a plant hire company, previously director, Corporate Finance the role of UK HS Managing Director, BUPA between 1994 and 2002 and and associate consultant with strategic for Serco Group plc following a and then UK and Ireland CEO.
Adrian of the Christie NHS Foundation Trust consultants, LEK Consulting.
Richard number of divisional finance director previously worked for a scientific and between 2008 and 2012.
Sir Duncan has a PhD in biochemistry from St and commercial roles.
Prior to Serco, IT consultancy company providing is currently chairman of the Countess Johns College, Cambridge and a BSc Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and solutions to engineering and R&D of Chester NHS Trust and a non- 1st Class Hons in Human Physiology AstraZeneca plc in both Finance and companies.
Adrian has a BSc executive director of Deltex Medical from the University of British Columbia Corporate Treasury.
Gavin is a qualified inMathematics and a PhD in Group plc and UKAS.
He is also in Vancouver, Canada.
Richard is chartered accountant and associate AppliedMathematics.
Chairman of Skills for Justice.
He non-executive chairman of Toumaz member of the Association of plc, a UK semiconductor company Corporate Treasurers.
Gavin is also isChairman of the Nomination focusing on digital radio, connected aTrustee of the Groups three UK Committee and a member of the audio and wireless healthcare.
Sir Duncan was appointed as Chairman of the Board in June 2012.
RC AC NC RC AC NC RC AC NC Jeff Harris Constance Baroudel Bruce Edwards Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jeff was appointed to the Board as Constance was appointed to the Board Bruce was appointed to the Board in Senior Independent Director in as a non-executive Director in September 2014.
Bruce was formerly September 2013, and is Chair of the September 2010 and is Chairman of the global chief executive officer for Audit Committee.
Jeff read Zoology the Remuneration Committee and a DHLs Supply Chain division, and a atSouthampton University and is a member of the Audit and Nomination member of the board of management.
She is currently the group Bruce is also a non-executive director joined UniChem, a co-operative UK director of strategy and operational of Ashtead plc and Greif Inc. a pharmaceutical wholesaler, as chief performance at First Group plc.
Prior NYSE-listed packaging and container accountant and worked his way up to First Group she was managing manufacturer.
Bruce is a member of within the organisation to the roles of director of the Solution business at fide the Audit, Remuneration and chief executive and then chairman of La Rue plc, and a senior consultant for Nomination Committees.
Jeff has served Strategic Decisions Group.
Constance on a number of boards as a nonattended lInstitut dEtudes Politiques executive director, senior independent fide Paris where she majored in director and chairman, including Corporate Finance and International Filtrona plc now Essentra plc, Relations.
Constance also has an Cookson plc, WH Smith plc, Bunzl plc MScin International Accounting and Associated British Foods plc.
He andFinance from the London has also served as the chairman of Schoolof Economics.
30 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
