Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee Report Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board I am delighted to present the Audit Committee report for the year.
I was appointed to the role of chairman in June last year.
I have found the Committee to be well set up to undertake the key responsibilities described in the report below and have been pleased by the focus on governance and control that I have seen.
The Committees undertaking to ensure appropriate oversight overthe financial reporting, internal control processes and risk management is well supported by the reporting and insight provided by management, internal audit and the external auditors.
Additional information and reporting has been provided on request and there has been open dialogue throughout the year.
The Committee discusses a broad range of topics and raises challenges and questions to support understanding and ensure that all appropriate considerations have been made.
The most significant matters discussed over the course of the year are described in the report below.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank all stakeholders for their input to the important work undertaken during the year.
Jeff Harris Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 June 2015 Make recommendations to the Board, for a Audit Committee members Significant audit issues resolution to be put to the shareholders for Jeff Harris Chairman The Committee is mindful of the areas their approval at the general meeting, on the Constance Baroudel ofsignificant risk disclosed in the Auditors appointment of the external auditors and the Bruce Edwards appointed September 2014 Report on page 63.
The Committee has approval of the remuneration and terms of carried out its own review of these risks, Responsibilities engagement of the external auditor: agrees with their classification as key, and The Audit Committees terms of reference issatisfied that they have been effectively Review and monitor the external auditors include all matters indicated by Disclosure managed during the period.
independence and objectivity and the and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
effectiveness of the audit process, taking into Our view of them is set out below: Theterms of reference are considered consideration the periodic rotation ofaudit annually by the Audit Committee and are then Carrying value of Dutch linen business personnel and relevant UK professional and referred to the Board for approval.
The full assets, and Chinese sterilisation business regulatory requirements: and terms of reference were updated during 2014 assets: The Dutch linen business has been in line with the revised recommendations of Develop and implement a policy on the experiencing tough trading conditions and is the September 2012 Code and can be found engagement of the external auditor to supply undergoing an improvement programme on the Companys website or can be obtained non-audit services, taking into account which is showing some signs of success.
If from the Company Secretary.
relevant guidance regarding the provision of this programme is not successful we may non-audit services by the external audit firm.
reconsider the asset carrying value.
The The primary responsibilities of the Audit Chinese sterilisation business is a fledgling Committee are to: Key issues and activities business.
If this business does not develop The Committee reviews the financial reporting Monitor the integrity of the financial as expected then the asset carrying value of the Company and the effectiveness of the statements of the Group and any formal may be revisited.
During the year, the Audit Groups internal control process.
Combined announcements relating to the Groups Committee reviewed managements with the Committees review of the internal financial performance and review approach to carrying out impairment and external audit functions, and review of significant financial reporting judgements reviews, and the adequacy of the financial specific issues with management as required, contained therein: controls in place over this area.
In addition, it is able to obtain sufficient information to the Committee reviewed the conclusions Have oversight of risk management, discharge its responsibilities.
drawn from managements impairment including the review of the Groups reviews, and satisfied themselves that these financial, operational and compliance were valid.
The Boards judgement isthat internal controls, Bribery Act 2010 this year these assets are not inneed of compliance, and whistleblowing and impairment, as operational activities fraudprevention procedures: areongoing which support theasset carrying values.
39 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Nonrecurring items in the income advice has been considered necessary Governance statement: Consistent with previous orsought in the year to 29 March 2015 The Audit Committee is appointed by the years, the Group has recorded nonoutsideofthe normal discussions with Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the recurring items in the context of corporate theexternal auditors.
The Committee comprises members acquisitions, and restructuring activities.
with a broad range of business and financial During the year the Committee held four This year non-recurring items include experience to effectively fulfil its programme meetings.
The Committee looked at specific significant costs associated with the ofwork.
The Board considers that Jeff Harris topics as detailed in the table above.
proposed acquisition of the Group by issuitably qualified to chair the Committee STERIS.
Where these costs are contingent inaccordance with the requirements of the Auditor independence upon reaching specific milestones, Codeand that each of the members be KPMG LLP previously, KPMG Audit PLC consideration has been given to their independent in accordance with the definition were appointed as auditors to the Company recognition in the current year.
During set out in the Code.
The expertise and the in2006, and are re-appointed annually theyear, the Audit Committee reviewed experience of each of the members of the byshareholders.
An annual review of the managements approach to accounting Committee are summarised on page 30. independence of KPMG LLP is undertaken for non-recurring items, and the each year, and includes a review of the The Committee met regularly during the year.
adequacy of the relevant financial policyof hiring of ex-audit staff.
At the The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance controls.
The Board is satisfied with the year-end the auditors formally confirmed Director, members of the Group finance judgements exercised in determining the theirindependence and thattheir objectivity function and representatives from the external recognition and classification of such has been maintained.
The Committee auditors attend Committee meetings by costs as non-recurring.
hasconcluded that the requirement for invitation in order to provide appropriate advice.
independence continues to be met.
Acquisition accounting: The Group The Group Finance Director works closely with hasacquired two businesses during the Chairman of the Audit Committee to ensure The auditors are required to rotate the audit theperiod.
The most significant acqisition, open communication between them.
When partner responsible for the Group audit every in terms of both scale and complexity, was the auditors attend meetings, the Chairman of five years.
The incumbent audit partner was that of Bioster S. p. A. in May 2014.
During the Committee meets with the audit partner appointed in 2011.
The Committee has noted the year, the Audit Committee reviewed beforehand without the involvement of the the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance managements approach to accounting Executive Directors.
Code introduced by the Financial Reporting foracquisitions, and the adequacy of Council FRC in September 2012, in particular The Audit Committee is allowed to obtain, at therelevant financial controls.
The the recommendation to put the Groups external the Companys expense, outside legal or other Boardissatisfied with the judgements audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
professional advice on any matter within its  the acquisition TheCommittee noted the proposed transitional terms of reference.
No external independent accounting adopted.
arrangements with respect to audit tendering to Financial statements and reports Risk management about 45% of the Committees time about 20% of the Committees time reviewed the 29 March 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the considered the output from the Group-wide risk review process to 28September 2014 half year report and the Interim Management identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, the Groups changing risk profile Statements issued in July 2014 and January 2015.
As part of these and future risk reports: reviews the Committee received a report from the external auditors reviewed the Group major risk register: on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts: monitored the deployment of the Focus on Safety campaign, the reviewed both internal and external reports on the effectiveness Safeguard application, and the risk management learning ofthe Groups internal controls: management system: reviewed regulatory developments in the fields of IFRS and reviewed the level of management attention and local resource corporatereporting: focused on risk management across the Group: and, considered the Groups acquisition valuation methodology: and reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy, which allows the Audit considered the Groups impairment review methodology.
Committee to receive complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters, in confidence.
Internal Audit Other areas of interest about 10% of the Committees time about 10% of the Committees time initiated a cost effectiveness review of the Groups contracted-out considered the Audit Committees terms of reference, which were Internal Audit function, evaluated its scope of work, and its efficiency: then approved by the Board: reviewed the IT security and the internal control environment of the held private meetings with the external auditor: Groups new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system: reviewed and updated the Companys ethics and reviewed and considered management responses to audit reports : issued during the year: and monitored progress on the roll-out of the Groups new ERP system: reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
evaluated post-investment appraisals of recent acquisitions: and External auditors and non-audit work contributed to the managements review of the Groups cyberabout 15% of the Committees time security risks and controls, and completed and submitted the UK evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditors: Governments cyber-security review.
reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology of theaudit work to be undertaken by the external auditors, including setting the policy for the ratio of audit to non-audit work: and agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 29 March 2015 financial statements.
40 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements fit the five-yearlycycle of partner rotation.
The Auditor fees Audit Committee agreed that a full tender was Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by not required for the 2015 audit.
Consequently theexternal auditors, which is reviewed by the Committee will consider its external management, the Committee considered cost tendering arrangements in anticipation of the comparisons to ensure that it was fair and next audit partner rotation, which is expected appropriate.
The audit fees payable to KPMG totake place in 2016.
LLP during 2015 were 477,000 2014: 466,000 and non-audit service fees were The Committee reviewed its policy on the 453,000 2014: 992,000.
The principal supply of non-audit services by the external non-audit service was for transaction-related auditors to ensure their continued objectivity advisory fees.
A summary of fees paid to the and independence and set a ratio of 70:30% external auditors is set out in note 4 to the for audit and non-audit work.
The Committee Accounts on page 78.
In accordance with set a monetary limit for the Group to operate International Standards on Auditing UK & within, and later approved the exceeding of Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued this limit and the 70:30% ratio for a specific bythe Accounting Practices Board, and transaction.
The Committee is satisfied that asamatter of best practice, the external the provision by KPMG LLP of non-audit auditors have confirmed their independence services does not impair their independence as auditors of the Company, in a letter or objectivity.
The Committee has approved addressed to the Directors.
the range of services that may be provided byKPMG LLP.
These include transaction Accordingly, the Committee unanimously duediligence and accountancy assistance recommended to the Board that a resolution forspecific projects.
Subject to approved for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as the authorisation limits, the services require Companys independent auditors be proposed priorauthority from either the Group Finance to shareholders at the AGM in July 2015 and Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee the Board has accepted and endorsed or the full Audit Committee.
Auditor evaluation During the year, the Committee reviewed Jeff Harris KPMG LLPs fees, effectiveness and whether Chairman of the Audit Committee the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and 2 June 2015 the reasons for any variation from the plan.
The Committee also considered the audit plans robustness, proposed audit materiality, the degree to which KPMG LLP was able to assess key accounting and audit judgements, the recommendations of the external auditors in connection with internal controls, and the content of the management letter.
Details of the current criteria for judging the effectiveness of the external auditors are set out below: Deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit: Provide accurate, up-to-date knowledge of technical issues on a timely basis: and Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reflects local risks and materiality.
The Committee will continue to focus on the effectiveness, objectivity and independence ofthe Auditor in its reviews.
41 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
