Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board I am delighted to present the Nomination Committee report for the year.
The Committee discusses a broad range of topics to ensure thatallappropriate considerations have been made.
The most significantmatters discussed over the course of the year are described in the report below.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank all stakeholders fortheir input to the important work undertaken during the year.
Sir Duncan Nichol Chairman of the Nomination Committee 2 June 2015 The Committee met formally once during Nomination Committee members theyear and agreed to recruit a new NonSir Duncan Nichol Chairman Executive Director who could also chair the Jeff Harris Audit Committee.
The Company engaged Constance Baroudel afirm of external search consultants to Bruce Edwards appointed September 2014 handlethe search and recruitment process.
Committee activity The Committee had a number of ad-hoc Bruce Edwards was appointed to the discussions with the search firm to progress Committee on 1September 2014.
members of the Committee are entitled to be The process was delayed due to the proposed present at meetings but others may be invited Combination with STERIS.
If the transaction by the Committee to attend if appropriate.
does not complete for some reason, the The Nomination Committee is responsible for Nomination Committee will be fully involved considering all potential appointments to the with both the recruitment and assessment of Board and for making suitable proposals to potential candidates.
Ashortlist of candidates the Board in relation to potential appointments.
will be put through a rigorous assessment It meets as and when Board appointments process and final candidates will be interviewed orother senior positions within the Group by the whole Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and leadership needs of the Group to enable it to transparent procedures to be followed by the compete effectively in the market place.
The Committee in making its recommendations Nomination Committee also advises the and appointments to the Board.
The Board on succession planning for executive Committee has access to such information Board appointments although the Board is and advice both within the Group and itself responsible for succession generally.
externally, at the cost of the Company, as it The Boards diversity and equal opportunities considers necessary.
This may include the policies are set out in the Employee engagement appointment of external executive search and Women on Boards sections of the consultants where considered appropriate.
Corporate Governance report on pages 35 and 36 respectively.
42 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
