Corporate Governance Report Establishing terms of reference and The role of the Board The Board membership of the Board committees: The Board is the principal decision making As at 29 March 2015, the Board of forum for the Group providing entrepreneurial Directorswas made up of seven members, Approval of all related party transactions: leadership, both directly and through its comprising aNon-Executive Chairman who Setting the remuneration of the auditors committees, as well as delegating authority was independent on his appointment, three and making recommendations for the forthe day-to-day management of the Group further Non-Executive Directors and three appointment or removal of auditors: to the SEB.
Executive Directors, following the promotion ofDr Adrian Coward to the Board with effect Approving any major changes in policy The Board is responsible for organising and from 31 March 2014. with respect to risks covered by insurance: directing the affairs of the Group in a manner most likely to achieve success for the benefit Schedule of matters reserved Approving all treasury matters, including of its shareholders.
The Board is accountable for the Board the setting of policies to enter into to the shareholders for: The Board has a formal schedule of matters contracts that are not in the ordinary reserved to it for decision, which it reviews course of business and authorising bank Setting the Groups strategic objectives: and agrees annually, but also delegates facilities including bank borrowing, other The creation and delivery of strong specific responsibilities to a senior committee, loans and internal rate swaps, and sustainable financial and operational the SEB, and certain Board committees.
approval of all foreign currency performance: Specific responsibilities reserved for the transactions in excess of 5 million: Board include: Ensuring that, in carrying out its duties, the Overseeing the Groups main controls and Groups legal and regulatory obligations are Setting and amending the Groups overall their effectiveness: being met: and business strategy, strategic business plan Other matters, including health and safety and the annual operating budget: Ensuring that the Group operates within and risk management: appropriately established risk parameters.
Approval of the Annual Report and The review of the Groups overall corporate financial statements, interim dividends The Groups UK-regulated entities are governance arrangements: and andrecommendation of the final dividend: accountable to the Financial Conduct The annual review of its own performance Authority FCA.
Approval of any changes to the Companys and that of its Committees.
capital structure, including the raising of UK Corporate Governance additional capital and the purchase of the Board activity during 2015 Codecompliance Companys shares: At each scheduled meeting the Board The Board is committed to the highest received updates from the Executive Directors standards of corporate governance set out in Approval of any significant changes on the operational and financial performance the Code and is accountable to the Companys inaccounting policies or practices: of the Group.
This report Approval of contracts with annual revenue describes how the Board has applied the main Board meetings are structured around the in excess of 5 million: principles of good governance set out inthe following areas: Code during the year under review.
Approval of any investment or disposal Operational and functional updates: ofthe share capital of another company Compliance statement greater than 5% of the Companys Financial updates: The Directors are of the opinion that the marketvalue: Company has been in compliance with the Strategy and risk: Approval of the acquisition of assets with principles of the Code up to the date of this Progress against strategy including aconsideration in excess of 10 million, report except where any non-compliance is potential acquisitions : and any disposal of assets greater than disclosed and explained.
2.5 million: Human Resources: The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, is Approval of any capital expenditure required to review whether the above Other reporting and items for approval: and inexcess of 10 million: statement reflects the Companys compliance Feedback from the committees.
with the provisions of the Code, specified for Major changes in the rules of the Company their review by the Listing Rules of the UK The Board composition ensures that the pension schemes, or changes of trustees Listing Authority, and to report if it does not above areas are carefully considered and or fund management arrangements: reflect compliance.
No such report has been thatbest and independent judgement is Approval of changes to the employee share made by KPMG LLP.
and other incentive schemes and the The following statements set out the principles As occurred in 2015, for 2016, items that are allocation of executive share options: and methods to which they adhere.
required to be considered on an annual basis All Stock Exchange related issues, will be included on an annual schedule of The statement of Directors responsibilities in including approval of communications rolling agenda items to ensure that they are respect of the Annual Report and the financial tothe Stock Exchange: not overlooked and are considered at the statements is set out in the Directors report appropriate point in the financial and Establishing Board membership and on page 62. regulatory cycle.
powers, including the appointment and removal of Board members and the Group Company Secretary: 32 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategy The Company Secretary The Board sets aside at least two Tim Mason retired as Group Company consecutivedays each year to conduct a Secretary on 23 July 2014.
The Board takes review of its strategy with the SEB and other this opportunity to thank Tim for his input senior executives in attendance for certain overthe five years he spent with the sessions as appropriate.
Companyand wish him a long, happy andhealthy retirement.
Strategic items are also discussed at each Board meeting.
Risk and risk management Jonathan Turner, previously Head of Tax & isconsidered side by side with strategy and Treasury, was appointed as Group Company isincluded in our operational reporting.
Secretary and Head of Tax & Treasury with effect from 23 July 2014.
Meetings and attendance All the Directors have access to the advice Directors are expected to attend all meetings and services of the Group Company of the Board and the committees on which Secretaryand Head of Tax & Treasury.
He they serve and to devote sufficient time to has responsibility for ensuring that Board theGroup to perform their duties.
Where procedures are followed and for advising the Directors are unable to attend meetings they Board, through the Chairman, ongovernance receive papers for that meeting, giving them matters.
The Group Company Secretary and the opportunity to raise any issues with the Head of Tax & Treasury provides updates to Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The the Board on regulatory and corporate number of scheduled Board and committee governance issues, new legislation, and meetings of which they are a member Directors duties and obligations.
The attended by each Director during 2015 appointment and removal ofthe Group isprovided in the table below.
Company Secretary is one of thematters Directors receive papers several days in reserved for the Board.
advance of Board meetings by means of an The Board has established a procedure electronic Board Pad facility, which provides forDirectors, if deemed necessary, to take greater flexibility for the Directors to access independent professional advice at the papers and also have access to the advice Companys expense in the furtherance of and services of the Companys advisors.
This is in addition to the access All Board and committee meetings during that every Director has to the Group Company theyear were held in an open atmosphere Secretary.
In the year under review, as conducive to constructive challenge and wellasadvice from the external auditors, debate.
Additional meetings are called KPMGLLP, and Investec Bank plc advice whenrequired and there is contact between wasalso taken from Deloitte LLP bythe meetings, where necessary, to progress the Remuneration Committee.
Board meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 11 4 5 1 Sir Duncan Nichol 11 of 11 5 of 5 1 of 1 Dr Richard Steeves 11 of 11 Gavin Hill 11 of 11 Dr Adrian Coward 10 of 11 Jeff Harris 11 of 11 4 of 4 5 of 5 1 of 1 Constance Baroudel 11 of 11 4 of 4 5 of 5 1 of 1 1 Bruce Edwards 9 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 0 of 0 1 Bruce Edwards was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014.
33 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Unfortunately, owing to the time commitment Board effectiveness Board balance required of the Directors in pursuing the As stated in the 2014 Annual Report, The Board continues to give careful potential combination with STERIS, the decision theCompany intended to carry out an consideration to its structure and the balance was taken to defer the review.
Should the independent external evaluation of the of the Board.
The Board remains satisfied transaction fail to complete for any reason, the Boards performance and all of its committees that it has the appropriate balance of skills, review will be restarted as soon as is practicable.
in 2015, in order to comply with the Code.
experience, independence and knowledge ofthe Group to enable it and its committees The Board appointed Lintstock Ltd Roles of the Chairman and to discharge their duties and responsibilities Lintstock, an independent external GroupChiefExecutive Officer effectively, as required by the Code.
The consultant which has conducted external The roles of Chairman and Group Chief tablebelow details the length of service evaluations for a number of FTSE 250 Executive Officer are separate and clearly oftheChairman and each of the Noncompanies, to undertake a board evaluation defined with the division of responsibilities Executive Directors.
Lintstock has had no connection setout in writing and approved by the Board.
If the transaction with STERIS fails to The Chairmans principal responsibilities are complete, the Board will, in the near to chair the Board and shareholder meetings The first stage of the review was undertaken, future, bemakinga further Non-Executive and to ensure the effective running of the with Lintstock engaging with the Chairman, Directorship appointment to expand the Board.
The Group Chief Executive Officers Group Company Secretary and Head of Tax & current skills and experience of the Board.
principal responsibility is leading the SEB Treasury and Group Chief Executive in order TheCompany has engaged a firm of inthe day-to-day running of the Groups to set the context of the evaluation and to externalsearch consultants to assist with the business.
The Chairman and the Group tailor thequestionnaires used to the specific appointment, albeit the assignment has been ChiefExecutive Officer meet regularly circumstances of the Company.
The recruitment process is being between meetings.
led by SirDuncan Nichol asChairman of the It was intended that all respondents would Meetings between the Non-Executive Nomination Committee, supported by the thenbe requested to complete an online Directors, both with and without the presence Committee and the Group Company Secretary.
questionnaire addressing Board, committee, of the Group Chief Executive Officer, take chairman and individual performance.
The Biographical details of the Directors place regularly.
The Board has arranged anonymity of all respondents would be ensured currentlyin office are shown on page 30. tohold Board meetings at Group business throughout the process in order to promote the TheCompanys policy relating to the terms locations to help all Board members gain open and frank exchange of views.
ofappointment and the remuneration of both adeeper understanding of the business.
Lintstock was to subsequently produce a Executive and Non-Executive Directors is set Thisalso provides senior managers from reportaddressing the areas covered in out in the Remuneration Report on page 51. across the Group with the opportunity to thequestionnaire.
It was also envisaged that present to the Board as well as to meet the The Directors biographies demonstrate Lintstock would conduct a follow-up appraisal Directors on more informal occasions.
The thebroad range of skills and experience next year involving an interview component, Non-Executive Directors are also invited to onthe Board.
tofollow up on any issues raised in this attend the Groups Leadership Conference, yearsprocess.
The review content for each The procedure for appointing Directors which is normally held annually.
subsequent evaluation is designed to build isdetailed in the Nomination Committee upon learning gained in the previous year, section below.
toensure that the recommendations agreed in the review are implemented and that year-on-year progress will be measured.
Current length of service Director Date of appointment Length of service Sir Duncan Nichol 01.11.2002 12 years 7 months Constance Baroudel 01.09.2010 4 years 9 months Jeff Harris 01.09.2013 1 year 9 months Bruce Edwards 01.09.2014 9 months 34 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In accordance with the Code, all Directors More importantly, each of the NonThe Group gives full and fair consideration submit themselves for annual re-election ExecutiveDirectors is prepared to question toapplications for employment from people byshareholders.
New Directors may be and challenge management, to request more with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal appointed by the Board, but are subject information and to pursue difficult questions.
opportunity to all disabled candidates and toelection by shareholders at the first They insist on robust responses, both within employees who have a disability or become opportunity following their appointment.
the Boardroom and sometimes between disabled in any way during the course of Board meetings.
The Group Chief Executive theiremployment.
A full assessment of the Independent Non-Executive Directors Officer is open to challenge from the individuals needs is undertaken and arecurrently appointed for fixed periods Non-Executive Directors and uses this reasonable adjustments are made to the ofthreeyears, subject to annual re-election positively to provide more detail and to workenvironment or practices in order byshareholders.
The initial three-year reflectfurther on issues.
periodmay be extended for two further three-year periods, subject to re-election by All candidates and employees are treated Professional development shareholders.
Their letters of appointment equally in respect of recruitment, promotion, On appointment, Directors take part in may be inspected at the Companys training, pay, and other employment policies acomprehensive induction programme registered office or canbeobtained on and conditions.
All decisions are based on whereby they receive financial and operational request from the CompanySecretary.
information about the Group, as well as information about their responsibilities The Chairman performs a number of other The Group continues to employ multiple andduties and an introduction to the non-executive roles outside the Group and channels of communication and is Groupsgovernance, regulatory and details of these are included in the Chairmans committedto improving these channels so controlenvironment.
The Board continues to be that all employees have access to information satisfied that these other commitments are aswellas having an opportunity to express This induction is supplemented by visits not such as to interfere with the performance theirviews and ideas on matters affecting totheGroups head office in Swindon and of his duties for the Group and will not impact their employment and the Group.
theEuropean head office in Derby, overseas on his ability to allocate sufficient time offices, and meetings with members of Channels include: todischarge effectively his responsibilities thesenior management team and their tothe Group.
Employee forums and, where appropriate, departments.
Development and training of works councils: Directors is an ongoing process.
Throughout Jeff Harris is the Senior Independent their period in office the Directors are Non-Executive Director.
He is available the Groups intranet site: regularly updated on the Groups business, toshareholders if they have concerns that an Ethics hotline: legal matters concerning their role and duties, contact through the normal channels of the competitive environments in which the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, or Regular leadership briefings Group operates, and any other significant Group Finance Director has failed to resolve  cascades changes affecting the Group and the industry or for which such contact is inappropriate.
team briefings: of which it is a part.
Where appropriate, the Heis also responsible for leading the Boards Board receives presentations from senior Employee satisfaction surveys: discussion on the Chairmans performance managers within the Group.
and the appointment of a new Chairman, Health and safety surveys: asand when appropriate.
Employee engagement Regular business updates via circulars: The Group recognises the impact that Independence of Nonand communication via Yammer, positiveemployee engagement has on aprofessional social networking tool.
ExecutiveDirectors developing a culture of excellence, The Company requires Non-Executive maintaining organisational stability and Employment policies are updated in a timely Directors to be independent of management fostering an environment in which people way to reflect legislative changes, and training sothat they are able to exercise independent feelvalued and included.
to communicate or embed change is oversight and effectively challenge developed and rolled out as appropriate.
The Company continually The Group is an equal opportunities Training is provided as required to ensure that assesses the independence of each of the employer.
Equal opportunities are offered we have a skilled workforce: this requires a Non-Executive Directors.
The Company has toall regardless of race, colour, nationality, balance of training for the work our employees determined thatall of the Non-Executive ethnic origin, sex including gender do now, and developing and preparing people Directors are independent in accordance with reassignment, marital or civil partnership for the future.
None of the Nonstatus, disability, religion or belief, sexual Executive Directors or their immediate families orientation, age or trade unionmembership.
have ever had a material relationship with the Group.
None of them receive additional remuneration apart from their Directors Fee, nor do they participate in the Groups share plans orpension schemes.
None of them serve asdirectors of any companies or affiliates inwhich any other Director is a director.
35 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued For several years the Company has operated positions, the Group has set up Synergy Relations with shareholders a Savings Related Share Option Scheme for ForWomen.
The Group Chief Executive Officer, Group UK-based employees, which gives employees Finance Director and Group Company Synergy for Women has a vision to: an opportunity to enter into a savings contract Secretary are responsible forensuring for a fixed period, with an opportunity to Secure increased representation of women effective communication withshareholders.
acquire shares in the Company at the end in senior leadership roles in the Group, The Company places considerable ofthat period.
importance on communication with the and a mission to: shareholders including its employee Women on Boards Promote a working environment which shareholders and all other stakeholders.
The Board has discussed the guidance encourages women to aspire to senior issued by Lord Davies of Abersoch in his Apart from the AGM, the Company positions within the Group.
report Women on Boards and the Code.
communicates with itsshareholders by way of Following the decision of Liz Hewitt not to The initiative started in the former UK & the Annual Report and financial statements, seek relection at the Annual General meeting Ireland region a number of years ago, which are available to all shareholders either AGM, 14.3% of the Boards membership withrepresentatives from all divisions and in paper form or electronically and can be isfemale.
The Board hopes the Group functions.
The initiative was extended to accessed via the Companys website.
The willbeina position to increase the level operate globally and an international steering Groups annual and interim results, as well ofrepresentation when renewing Board group has been set upto encourage similar asall announcements issued by the London membership over the coming years.
However, womens groups in Europe & Middle East, Stock Exchange, are published on the this will always be subject to the overriding theAmericas and Asia & Africa.
need to ensure that appointments are made is being sponsored internally by Dr Adrian The Company also communicates with on merit and having regard to an appropriate Coward, Group Chief Operating Officer and itsinstitutional shareholders through a balance of skills, experience, independence DrRichard Steeves, Group Chief Executive combination of analysts briefings throughout and knowledge required on the Board.
As a result of the initiative, female the year but particularly at the interim and TheDavies Report also examines the employees can expect tosee, amongst other year end results stage.
genderdiversity at management levels things, growing opportunities for networking, belowtheboard and has asked that career supportand confidential counselling.
The Chairman, as required, will hold meetings chairmen, inconsultation with their CEOs, during the year with major shareholders and Female employees make up approximately identify twofemale candidates from their other stakeholders, and will discuss with the 49.7% of all employees within the Group.
senior management team and give them Board any matters raised with him.
theopportunity to serve as non-executive The Board will continue to review its approach External analysts reports are circulated to directors on other company boards.
The on gender diversity, particularly in the context allDirectors and Investec, the Companys Group has a number of initiatives to improve of any developing guidance in this area.
brokers, produce a monthly investor relations diversity at a senior management level but report, which is circulated to the Board.
The recognises that these will take time to be report contains details of any significant reflected in the number of women in the changes to the shareholders register.
To accelerate the number of women in senior management It is proposed that the next AGM be held at the offices of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP on Wednesday 23 July 2015 at 10.30a.
m. notice of which will be sent Results of 2014 AGM to shareholders with the Annual Report.
The table below details the voting results of the previous AGM: Business at the Companys 2015 AGM Total votes Total votes for % against % willcover the Annual Report and financial statements, the Remuneration Report, a 1 Companys Annual Report and Accounts 100.0 0.0 proposal for a new Long-Term Incentive Plan 2 Directors Remuneration Report 98.9 1.1 LTIP, election and re-election of Directors, 3 Directors Remuneration Policy 97.7 2.3 appointment and remuneration of auditors, 4 Final dividend 100.0 0.0 political donations and political expenditure, 5 Re-elect Sir Duncan Nichol 94.3 5.7 authority to allot shares, disapplication of 6 Re-elect Dr Richard Steeves 99.9 0.1 pre-emption rights, purchase by the Company 7 Re-elect Gavin Hill 99.8 0.2 of its own shares, and the notice period for 8 Re-elect Constance Baroudel 99.7 0.3 general meetings.
9 Re-elect Jeff Harris 99.7 0.3 10 Re-elect Dr Adrian Coward 99.8 0.2 11 Appointment of auditors 91.9 8.1 12 Auditors remuneration 97.5 2.5 13 Allow political donations 99.0 1.0 14 Allot equity securities 99.5 0.5 15 Disapplication of pre-emption rights 100.0 0.0 16 Make market purchases 100.0 0.0 17 14 days notice of general meetings 92.5 7.5 36 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Full details and an explanation of these The Group finance function undertakes The review also highlights areas where resolutions are set out in the Notice of financial reviews of the regional finance improved controls have been implemented Meeting.
The proxy votes for and against each functions on an ad hoc basis and provides and key actions to be addressed in the resolution, as well as abstentions, are counted technical and commercial support coming financial year, which are monitored before the AGM and the results will be made whenrequired.
byboth the Board and the Audit Committee.
available at the meeting after shareholders Assessment of business risk Control procedures have voted on each resolution on a show Existing and emerging business risks have Detailed operational procedures that embody ofhands.
been identified, assessed and evaluated key controls have been developed for each All shareholders are invited to the AGM.
during the year as part of the Groups ofthe Groups businesses.
The implications TheChairmen of the Audit, Remuneration management processes.
The formal risk ofchange in law and regulations are taken and Nomination Committees attend the management framework led by the Group into account in those procedures.
AGMalong with the other Directors and are Risk Management Director ensures that risks Monitoring process available to answer shareholders questions are effectively and consistently managed and There are clear procedures for monitoring onthe activities of the committees they chair.
The corporate risk management thesystem of key controls.
The significant Shareholders also have an opportunity to system is covered in the report of principal components are: meet with Directors after the formal business risks and uncertainties on page 22.
The of the meeting has been concluded.
Details Board regularly reviews strategic risks.
Cyclical and random reviews of operational ofproxy voting by shareholders are made and financial controls by theGroup Risk Control environment available on request and are placed on the Management Director, the Group Quality The Groups operating procedures include Companys website following the meeting.
Director, the Group ITDirector, senior acomprehensive system for reporting finance managers andthe Group Finance Conflicts of interest financial and non-financial information team: and There are procedures in place to deal with to the Boardincluding: Directors conflicts of interest arising under Review by the Audit Committee of the The definition of authorisation limits, both the Companies Act 2006 and such process for identifying and assessing risks financial and otherwise.
Detailed appraisal procedures have operated effectively and of the effectiveness of controlsvia the documents are produced for any major duringthe year.
work of external audit anddirect access to capital projects: Group and operational management.
Internal control A review of annual budgets and forecasts The Directors acknowledge that they have In the year to 29 March 2015, the Company against budgets that are produced at least overall responsibility for the Group systems has also implemented a new robust Health, twice a year: ofinternal control and for reviewing the Safety and Risk Management Assurance effectiveness of those controls.
A review of monthly management process.
Over 80% of the Groups sites were accounts at Group and operational level, reviewed during the first year of implementation, The Board has taken into account the relevant including financial performance, together and significant improvements have already provisions of the Code, the Turnbull Report and with balance sheet and cash flow analysis, been identified.
the Listing Rules and an ongoing process has which are reported against budget, been established for identifying, managing and The Board confirms that it has considered the forecasts and prior year with major evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal variances explained: and controls described above for the financial year The systems are designed to manage rather A risk management report for each Board and up to the date of this report.
than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the meeting, focusing on any new risks arising Groups objectives.
The systems provide and management of existingrisks.
reasonable, not absolute, assurances against material misstatement or loss.
Such systems On an annual basis the Group finance are reviewed by the Board to deal with function undertakes a review of financial changing circumstances.
controls as part of its year end process, whichis considered by the Board.
The annual The Group has a Group finance function that review gives a comprehensive update on the reports to the Group Finance Director and is previous years report and outlines actions independent of the business units to ensure taken to redress any weaknesses in each objectivity and control when preparing Group regional business and across Group functions.
37 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Board committees Board The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent committees to deal with matters in accordance with written termsof reference, as well as the SEB.
Senior Executive Board Senior The SEB is the key management committee Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive and comprises the Group Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Board Officer, Group Finance Director, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Company Secretary and Head of Tax & Treasury, Group HR Director, and the CEOs of each ofthe AST andHS Businesses.
that are reviewed annually to ensure that The SEB meets regularly and is primarily theyremain appropriate and reflect any responsible for: changes in good practice and governance.
The management of all the These terms of reference are available on Groupsbusinesses: request from the Group Company Secretary and Head of Tax & Treasury and can also be Delivering the strategy and the agreed found on the Companys website.
Directors business plans and budgets which are fully informed of all Committee matters havebeen approved by the Board: bythe committee Chairmen reporting on Implementing Group policy: theproceedings of their committee at the subsequent Board meeting.
Copies of Making key commercial decisions within committee minutes are also distributed to the framework of the agreed business plan theBoard.
Committees areauthorised to and strategy: obtain outside legal or other independent Monitoring all risks operational, financial professional advice if they consider and reputational : itnecessary.
The Chairman of each committee attends the AGM to respond Reviewing and maintaining the toanyshareholder questions that might effectiveness of the Groups system beraised on the committees activities.
ofinternal control on a day-to-day TheGroup Company Secretary and Head basis:and ofTax& Treasury acts as Secretary to all Managing the business in a manner ofthe committees.
Principal committees Sir Duncan Nichol The principal committees of the Board Chairman Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 2 June 2015 allcomply fully with the requirements of theCode.
All committees are chaired by anindependent Non-Executive Director, except the Nomination Committee, which comprises Non-Executive Directors and ischaired by the Chairman of the Board, whomthe Company deems independent.
Appointments to the committees are made onthe recommendation of the Nomination Committee and are for aperiod of up to three years, which may be extended for two further three-year periods, provided the Director remains independent.
The committees are constituted with written terms of reference 38 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
