Market review Global trends driving innovation What we make Styrene Butadiene Nitrile Butadiene Latex NBR Rubber SBR Market position No.
1 producer globally Which markets do they serve Paper, carpet and foam markets Health and protection Which products are they used in Coated paper, packaging, bindings for Medical gloves, medical devices e. g. carpet, foams for mattresses, pillows catheters and other dipped latex products andshoes Europe and North America Where we manufacture Germany, Italy and Finland Italy Germany, Italy and UK UK UK, Netherlands and Egypt Turnover 249.3m 18.0m 123.0m 154.7m 37.1m Market trends Outlook Paper and carpet markets are expected Demand in-line with strong growth Markets are growing, higher demand for Positive outlook, though challenges Market generally follows the carpet to decline slowly.
Foam market is mainAsia USmarkets.
Priorities Innovation, strong cost and cash control Innovation, operational efficiencies Innovation, strong cost and cash control, Innovation, capacity expansion, Innovation, capacity debottlenecking, and asset rationalisation.
capacity debottlenecking, operational operational efficiencies.
Asia and Rest of World Where we manufacture Malaysia, South Africa Malaysia Malaysia, Vietnam, Middle East and Malaysia South Africa Turnover 5.0m 167.8m 87.7m 51.1m Market trends Geographical trends Good demand expected medium term.
High growth in end user demand for Near term slow down in growth expected Increase in demand expected.
in MiddleEast and Asia in-line with construction industry, good demand medium term.
Priorities Introduce products from Europe and look Innovation, capacity expansion, Innovation, capacity expansion and Continue to supplement market growth to maximise asset capacity.
introduction of new products from from Europe.
10 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Dispersions Specialities Compounds including inorganic products.
Specialist SBR and High Solid SBR formulations.
1 producer in Malaysia and No.
1 High Solids SBR producer globally and vinylic producer in the Middle East Construction, coatings, adhesives Specialist markets including automotive, Speciality products for a range of markets andtextiles PVC manufacturers and construction including mattress and carpet markets Cement modification, primers, flooring Automotive sound dampening, Compounds for carpet backing and high adhesives, flexible roof coatings, emulsion PVC, polyester resins, catalysts and solid latex applications and specialist paints and coatings flameretardants Where we manufacture Germany, Italy and Finland Italy Germany, Italy and UK UK UK, Netherlands and Egypt Turnover 249.3m 18.0m 123.0m 154.7m 37.1m Market trends Outlook Paper and carpet markets are expected Demand in-line with strong growth Markets are growing, higher demand for Positive outlook, though challenges Market generally follows the carpet to decline slowly.
Where we manufacture Malaysia, South Africa Malaysia Malaysia, Vietnam, Middle East and Malaysia South Africa Turnover 5.0m 167.8m 87.7m 51.1m Market trends Geographical trends Good demand expected medium term.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 11 Business model and strategy Creating and sustaining long-term value We produce sophisticated formulations for Synthomer is a speciality chemical company.
We are thousands of customers in a diversity of closeto customers, understanding their needs and this, industries, from construction and coatings tohealthcare and automotive.
Our strategic combined with our innovative technology, gives us our procurement specialists acquire the competitive advantage.
upstream raw materials used in our complex production process.
The production process involves controlling the pressure, temperature and duration ofmixing reactions of our raw materials so as to create specific formulations.
Ourhighly Our sustainable value chain 1 Research and development Our three research and development centres ofexcellence work to both develop products for our customers and also to improve the efficiency of their manufacture.
2 Consumers 2 We monitor mega-trends and market developments to ensure our formulations are 8 meeting the requirements not only ofour customers but the end users oftheir products.
3 Technical services 3 Our technical services work with our customers to ensure we are providing the rightformulation for their needs.
7 4 Formulations Our formulations are designedfor use in customer specific products.
1 5 Sourcing raw materials We work closely with our suppliers, ensuring 4 correct material specification, ability to deliver andcompetitive price.
6 6 Production Experienced operations teams optimise a cost- 5 efficient complex production process regulating pressure, temperature and reaction duration.
7 Products Our production facilities look to manufacture our products in an efficient and timely manner.
8 Logistics Our specialist logistics teams work on ensuring safe and timely deliveries across the world.
They ensure our product arrives at our customers locations in excellent condition.
12 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information skilled and experienced people deliver increasing demand for environmentally cost effective flexible operational friendly technology.
Ourproduction sites are local to our We consider risk management a key customers and make high water content principle in the protection of sustainable polymers economic to transport.
We have strategies for the built a strong platform for growth through mitigation of our key risks.
our leading market positions in Europe and Asia and Rest of World businesses Read more on pages 29-33 which is underpinned by our exposure toglobal mega-trends including an Our strategy Key beneficiaries of our value chain Our strategic goal is to be a global partner to our Employees customers providing them with innovative, high quality Our employees are a critical part of our success.
We seek to expand both ourknowledge and contribute to all aspects of our value chain and all employees footprint in order tobetter meet their needs and thereby benefit from the success ofour business.
We are committed increase shareholder value.
to providing a safe environment to work.
Investing in innovation andknowledge Governments We use our research and development to create a strong We look to ensure that we adhere fairly with the tax regulations portfolio of products and technologies.
within each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Wesee local safety and environment legislative compliance as the Creating excellence in our business minimum level at which we should operate, and we strive We aim to excel in all aspects of our business from forhigher standards.
product development to manufacturing process tologistics.
Communities We look to be a valued part of the communities in which Driving organic growth weoperate, beingboth aware of how our plans mayimpact Our organic growth strategy is four-fold.
First, by focusing on a community and demonstrating that we respect the our technical expertise on how our products can be used community and its environment.
we are able to expand into new markets.
Second, by ensuring that we are using our current plants to the full Customers extent we can increase our capacity without large capital Our customers expect us to provide them with innovative, investment.
Third, where we see good growth in markets high quality, competitive products.
We seek to work in we will invest in building plants that allow us to service our partnerships with customers and todevelop products that growing markets.
Finally, we continue to drive for efficient support theirgoals.
operations focusing on fixed and variable costs control and reduction.
Suppliers Our suppliers are an important part ofour business and we Business growth through acquisition look to work closely with them to ensure we get the right Our acquisition strategy is to look for businesses that as specification of products for our needs at competitive prices.
part of Synthomer will add to our footprint, our knowledge and technical expertise.
Shareholders Our shareholders, as the owners of our business, should see the benefits of our focus on long term sustainable growth, Read more on page 9 regulatory compliance and strong governance.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 13 Strategy in action Sustainable developments Innovation The polyvinyl chloride PVC industry, in-line with other industries and markets, has a requirement to reduce volatile organic compounds VOCs in products to meet tightening governmental regulations across the world.
Synthomer has developed its Alcotex Eco product range, based on anew patent pending technology, as asolvent free option for use in the manufacture of PVC.
Excellence Our Alcotex Eco product range hasbeen designed to improve the manufacturing and performance of PVC polymers.
Inaddition, because these products arenow solvent free, it will support ourcustomers requirement to reduce theiremissions.
Growth Our new Alcotex Eco product is anexample of our new technology innovations which anticipate the needsofour customers and supports their competitiveness, whilst keeping Synthomer at the forefront of its key markets worldwide.
14 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 15 Strategy in action continued Intumescent coatings Innovation Intumescent coatings are special paints which swell up when heated and can therefore protect the material underneath in the event of a fire.
Synthomers innovative binders used in the paints for this demanding application have been among the first to meet the latest environmental standards whilst extending the protection time against fire by up to 120 minutes.
Excellence Synthomer has long experience in supporting speciality paint manufacturers in challenging applications.
Our binder that is used in these intumescent coatings is an example of how we provided a solution to one of our customers issues.
Growth The use of these paints has grown following the global mega-trends to use steel as a key component in modern architecture.
With our speciality binders used in intumescent coatings, we make sure modern architecture remains attractive and safe.
16 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 17
