Strategic report Governance Financial statements Senior Executive Board SEB SEB SEB Niclas Olsson Andrew McLean Jonathan Turner CEO, Asia & Africa President, AST Americas Group Company Secretary Niclas was appointed as CEO of HSS Andrew was appointed as CEO of Jon was appointed Group Company on 1 April 2014.
He joined Synergy as ASTon 1 April 2014.
He joined CEO of the Asia & Africa region in June Synergy in a dual role ofVice Synergy in November 2010 as Head 2012.
Niclas worked for the Getinge President, AST Business ofTax & Treasury, a role he still holds.
Group for 10 years in a variety of Development and President, AST Jon previously worked for Ernst & management positions, culminating in Americas in June 2013.
Previously, Young LLP as a senior manager in its five years as president of Getinge Andrew held roles at Becton International Tax Services group.
Prior to joining Getinge, he was Dickinson and Pfizer, spanning has a BA in Physics from Merton multiple global geographies College, Oxford, is a Fellow of the marketing director forSanmina-SCI, a andbusiness leadership roles.
Institute of Chartered Accountants of world leading outsourcing company, Andrewholds a Bachelors England and Wales and an Associate and business area manager Industrial degreeinEconomics, a Master Member of the Association of Automation for Mannesman Rexroth in ofManagement, and an MBA Corporate Treasurers.
Niclas has a Mechanical fromMacquarie University in trustee of, and secretary to, the Engineering degree and is a graduate Sydney, Australia.
Groups three UK defined benefit of the University of Lund.
Board key RC Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman SEB AC Audit Committee Senior Executive Board NC Nomination Committee NC Board composition Board gender ratios Ray Reilly Group HR Director Ray joined Synergy Health in July 2012 as part the SRI Surgical Express Inc. acquisition in the Americas.
In May 2014 Ray was promoted to the position of Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources.
He was previously employed in regional human resource roles with Sodexo aswell as healthcare operations management roles with both Sodexo and Marriott Management Services.
Chairman 1 Male 6 Ray holds a Bachelor of Science Executive 3 Female 1 degree in Hotel, Restaurant and Institutional Management from Non-executive 3 IndianaUniversity of Pennsylvania anda Master of Science in Human Resources and Industrial Relations from Saint Francis University.
31 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
