23 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance Introduction The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The following changes to the Board have been announced during theyear: governance and in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing 3 June 2014 Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh joined Authority, the Board confirms that the Company has throughout the theBoard as Executive Directors year and as at the date of this Annual Report, complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
22 July 2014 Joanna Shields stepped down as Non-Executive Director This section of the Annual Report, together with the Strategic Report, 13 November 2014 Steve Makin stepped down as provides details of how the Company has applied the principles and ChiefFinancial Officer complied with the provisions of the Code and its five key principles: leadership, effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations 5 January 2015 Iain Torrens joined the Board as with shareholders.
ChiefFinancial Officer Board balance and independence The Chairman and Executive Directors have service contracts that The Board has eleven members, six of whom, excluding the Chairman, can be terminated by either the Company or the Director on twelve are considered independent Non-Executive Directors.
John Gildersleeve Deputy Chairman, Ian West Senior Independent Director, John Allwood, Brent Hoberman, Sir Howard Stringer and The Non-Executive Directors are expected to serve for an initial period James Powell.
of three years, albeit that either party may terminate the appointment on three months notice with no compensation for loss of office.
These Therefore, at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman are initial three year periods commenced on 20 January 2010, with the independent and, notwithstanding the changes to the Board composition following exceptions: Ian West 8 February 2011 : Sir Howard Stringer during the period, this has been the situation for all of FY15.
After three years, the contracts automatically renew.
All Directors in any event stand for re-election every year.
Leadership How the Board operates TristiaHarrison Managing Director, Consumer, Charles Bligh The Board has reserved certain matters, and delegated others to Managing Director, TalkTalk Business, Tim Morris Group General acommittee of the Board.
Day to day management rests with the Counsel and Company Secretary and other senior employees Groups Executive Committee, which comprises Dido Harding drawn from across the Group.
Reserved matters include approving ChiefExecutive Officer, Iain Torrens Chief Financial Officer, the Groups strategy, annual budgets and other longer term planning.
Board Committees The Board has established the four committees below, to which it has delegated certain matters: the first three are as required by the Code, and the fourth is to ensure the compliance of the Group within the consumer regulatory environment in which it operates.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance John Allwood Ch John Gildersleeve Ch John Gildersleeve Ch John Gildersleeve Ch Ian West Ian West Ian West Dido Harding James Powell Brent Hoberman John Allwood Tim Morris Sir Howard Stringer John Gildersleeve stepped down on 1 June 2014.
Sir Howard Stringer stepped down on 1 June 2014 and Joanna Shields on 22 July 2014.
Sir Howard Stringer was appointed on 1 June 2014.
The work of each committee is described in more detail in the section relating to it below.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee A detailed description of the Committees remit and work during the A detailed description of the Committees remit and work during period is contained in the Audit Committee Report on pages 26 to 27. theperiod is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on Other Directors and senior management including the Company pages 29 to 46.
Other Directors including the Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, the Chief Financial Officer and advisers attend by the Company Secretary, the Group Human Resources Director and invitation of the Committee.
advisers attend by invitation of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups website www.
24 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance continued Leadership continued Board Committees continued Other senior executives of the Group attend by invitation Nomination Committee oftheCommittee.
The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board level, Regulatory Compliance Committee overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors, regularly The purpose of the Committee is to provide the Board with visibility reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and of how the Group remains compliant with those consumer regulations making its recommendations to the Board.
It assists in evaluating affecting its businesses from time to time.
Its members therefore thecommitments of individual Directors and the balance of skills, include those senior executives who are operationally responsible knowledge and experience on the Board.
for implementing permanent changes necessary to ensure the The Committee has overseen the appointment of Tristia Harrison Group remains compliant.
Such members are accountable to the and Charles Bligh as Executive Directors and also the appointment Committee and the Board for the successful delivery of such changes.
ofIain Torrens as Chief Financial Officer during the period.
This Committee meets at least four times a year and reports to the The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each Board accordingly.
The Group also operates a weekly Compliance Committee meeting.
Committee made up of those senior executives including the ChiefExecutive Officer responsible for all key areas of compliance The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request across the Group and is chaired by the Company Secretary.
Targets from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups set at these meetings are monitored against a weekly scorecard.
Number of meetings attended Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 6 3 4 1 Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Sir Charles Dunstone, Chairman 6 6 Dido Harding 6 6 Stephen Makin 3 3 Iain Torrens 2 2 Tristia Harrison 6 6 Charles Bligh 6 6 John Gildersleeve 6 6 1 1 3 3 1 1 1 Ian West 5 6 2 3 3 3 1 1 John Allwood 6 6 3 3 1 1 2 Brent Hoberman 4 6 2 3 3 Sir Howard Stringer 4 6 1 1 1 1 James Powell 6 6 3 3 Joanna Shields 2 2 1 1 1 Ian West was unable to attend one Board meeting and one Audit Committee, being held on the same day, due to a prior business commitment.
2 Brent Hobermann was unable to attend two Board meetings and one Remuneration Committee due to overseas business commitments.
3 Sir Howard Stringer was unable to attend two Board meetings due to overseas business commitments.
As well as the formal meetings during the year, the Board met at The Chairman meets regularly with just the Non-Executive Directors othertimes as appropriate for approving certain announcements prior to every other Board meeting.
This ensures that any concerns toshareholders.
can be raised and discussed outside of formal Board meetings.
TheSenior Independent Director also attends these sessions where It is important to the Board that Non-Executive Directors have itispossible, if required, to discuss any matters with the other theability to influence and challenge appropriately.
To this end all independent Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are given a thorough induction to the Group and take priority in Board discussions.
All Directors receive papers in The Senior Independent Director also takes responsibility for advance of meetings.
They also receive regular reports and members performance evaluation of the Board: succession planning for of the Groups executive team are invited to present at Board meetings theChairman: and chairing Non-Executive Director only meetings.
so that the Non-Executive Directors keep abreast of developments Inaddition, he is an alternative point of contact for shareholders in the Group.
inthe event that normal executive channels are not appropriate.
Details of the Senior Independent Directors role are set out on theGroups website www.
25 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 The nature of risks identified and assessed are wide-ranging, Performance evaluation and continued development covering risks arising from the regulatory environment, strategy, Each Board member has been subject to an internal performance counterparties and organisational change associated with major review during the year, where the balance of skills, knowledge and projects.
Action plans and controls to mitigate identified risks are put experience of each Director was reviewed.
This was undertaken in place where possible and if considered appropriate by the Board, byeach member of the Board completing detailed questionnaires.
taking account of costs and benefits.
A report is provided to the The results of these were analysed by the Chairman, Senior Directors at each Board meeting setting out key risks, changes in Independent Director and the Board as a whole against the broad thestatus of the key risks and updates on mitigation.
criteria of overall Board effectiveness and individual contributions.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system As part of the performance review the ability of each Director, in ofinternal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board particular the Non-Executive Directors, to demonstrate the required delegates to executive management the responsibility for designing, time commitment to the role was assessed.
As a result of this operating and monitoring these systems.
The systems are based performance evaluation the Chairman confirms that each of the ona process of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and Directors seeking re-election at the AGM continues to be effective include the risk management processes set out above and channels and has demonstrated the appropriate commitment to the role.
to enable employees to raise concerns about possible irregularities The Senior Independent Director also met with the other in financial reporting and other issues and associated processes Non-Executive Directors during the year to assess the Chairmans forthose matters to be investigated.
effectiveness, taking into account the views of Executive Directors.
The systems of internal control are supported by the Business The Company Secretary ensures that the Board is made aware of Assurance and Internal Audit function.
Any significant risks identified new laws, regulations and other information appropriate to the Group in the year were given appropriate priority.
to ensure that all Directors continually update their skills, knowledge The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather and familiarity of the Group in order to fulfil their roles.
Additionally, thaneliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
each Director has access to the advice and services of the Company Theycan only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Secretary and also has the ability to take independent external against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
The effectiveness of these systems is periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee in accordance with the revised guidance in the Diversity Turnbull Report.
These systems are also refined as necessary The Board understands the importance of having a diverse tomeet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
membership and recognises that diversity encompasses not only The Audit Committee also adopts an internal audit charter each gender but also background and experience.
The Board does not yearin accordance with International Internal Auditing Standards.
have a formal diversity policy and is generally opposed to the idea ofstated quotas for females.
The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period Our equality policy applies equally to all appointments in the and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of Company, and the Board believes that appointments should be risk management and internal control in operation during the year made solely on merit, the key criterion being whether or not the appointee can add to or complement the existing range of skills and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
This was andexperience on the Board.
approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
Risk management and internal control Relations with shareholders The Board believes it is important to explain business developments The Board views management of risk as integral to good business and financial results to the Companys shareholders and to understand practice.
The Company has established an ongoing risk management programme to identify, assess and mitigate business, financial, any shareholder concerns.
The principal communication media used operational and compliance risks.
The programme is designed to to impart information to shareholders are news releases including results announcements and Company publications.
In all such support managements decision making and to improve the reliability communications, care is taken to ensure that no inappropriate of business performance.
The risk management process operates throughout the Group, being applied equally to the main business information is released.
26 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance continued key aspects of the Companys operations: Relations with shareholders continued The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have lead matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported by an andkey financial information: Investor Relations Director who, amongst other matters, organises the principles of, and developments in, key applicable company presentations for analysts and institutional investors.
There is a full law and other legislation relevant to the Company: programme of regular meetings and dialogue with major institutional shareholders, fund managers, analysts, retail brokers and credit the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: investors, upon which the Chairman ensures the Board receives the regulatory framework of the Companys business: and regular updates at Board meetings.
The Board also receives periodic reports on investors views of the performance of the Company.
environmental and social responsibility best reporting practices.
Allthe Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman During the year, the formal calendar of items considered at each andSenior Independent Director are available to meet with major Audit Committee meeting within the annual cycle encompassed shareholders, if such meetings are required.
theCode requirements to: The Company plans also to communicate with shareholders through monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company the AGM, at which the Chairman will give an account of the progress and any formal announcements relating to the Companys of the business over the last year, and a review of current issues, financial performance, including reviewing significant financial andprovides the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
reporting judgements contained in them: TheCompanys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders.
Information relating disclose the significant issues that the Committee considered tovotes cast will, following the AGM, be available on the Companys inrelation to the financial statements and how these issues website www.
wereaddressed: Further financial and business information is available on the Groups confirm that the consolidated financial statements, taken as a website www.
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, to ensure that the narrative sections of the report are consistent with the financial Audit Committee statements and accurately reflect the Groups performance: During the year, the Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors: John Allwood Chairman, Ian West and review the Companys internal financial controls and its internal James Powell.
John Gildersleeve was a member of the Committee control and risk management systems and to make until he stepped down on 1 June 2014. recommendations to the Board: The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board, following each review the Companys arrangements by which employees may Committee meeting, on any significant issues that may have arisen.
raise concerns in confidence: In addition, the Chairman of the Committee is happy to make himself monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal available to investors on request.
During the year, all requirements audit function: ofthe Code in respect of the Committee were met.
make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, The Groups Chief Financial Officer as well as representatives of the re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and to Companys external auditor and other members of senior management approve its remuneration and terms of engagement: from Finance, Tax and Treasury, Legal and Business Assurance also attend these meetings by invitation of the Committee.
The external review the Companys policy on the engagement of the external and internal auditors have direct access to the Committee during formal auditor to supply non-audit services: meetings and time is set aside for them to have private discussion review and monitor the external auditors independence and with the Committee, in the absence of management attendees.
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking John Allwood remains the member of the Committee with relevant intoconsideration relevant UK professional and regulatory and recent financial experience as recognised by the Consultative requirements: and Committee of Accountancy bodies, although all members are disclose how the Committee has assessed the effectiveness of expected to be financially literate and have an understanding of: the external audit process and provide information on the length the principles of, contents of and developments in financial of tenure of the current audit firm.
reporting, accounting standards and statements of The Committees remit requires it to report to the Board, identifying recommended practice: any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and to make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
27 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Significant judgements The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in the current year were as follows: Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee The appropriateness of The Committee considered papers prepared by management and, taking into account managements preparing the Group assumptions and the external auditors review of these papers, concluded that managements financial statements for recommendation to prepare accounts on a going concern basis was appropriate.
the half year and full year on a going concern basis The treatment of The Committee considered managements presentation of separately disclosed items.
The Committee also exceptional items and considered the views of the external auditor both on managements policy and its application in FY15.
At each their presentation within meeting the Committee reviews a paper prepared by management on actual and forecast levels of exceptional the Groups financial items including the nature of all the items and the balance of income and cost between exceptionals and statements underlying.
The disclosure for inclusion in the consolidated financial statements has been reviewed and agreed by the Audit Committee.
In addition the Audit Committee has reviewed the Groups position in relation to the treatment of prompt payment discounts and the historic termination charge settlement discussion with the mobile network operators, challenged management assumptions and concurs with the provision made.
Carrying value of goodwill The judgements exercised in relation to goodwill impairment testing concern the assumptions used in and other intangibles calculating the value in use of the operating companies being tested for impairment.
The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business, which are driven bythe Groups calculation of its weighted average cost of capital WACC and its assessment of long term growth rates.
Thebusiness plan used in the calculation is the five year plan, which is approved by the Groups Executive Committee and the Board.
The Committee has reviewed and challenged managements paper onthe outcome of the impairment review and concurs with the conclusion.
Revenue recognition The key area of judgement in recognising revenue is the identification of revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables.
When the Group sells a number of products within a bundled transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values and limited to the amounts billed for that element.
The Committee reviewed managements papers on the proposed accounting treatment for new products and customers credits and concurs with the conclusion.
In addition, the Committee also considers the detailed reports of the external auditor before agreeing on any potential changes to the Groupsaccounting policies.
Supplier rebate income The Committee reviewed the recognition of supplier rebate income during the year, an area of inherent risk due to the complexity of the arrangements and the judgement applied by management to ensure that rebates are recognised over the appropriate financial period.
This review required an understanding the nature of anysignificant transactions and adherence to the Groups accounting policies.
As a result of the review, the Committee concluded that supplier rebate income had been appropriately recorded within the financial year.
Taxation The key judgement in relation to taxation relates to the assumptions made in recognising deferred tax assets.
The taxation forecasting model prepared by management is based on the five year plan, which is approved by the Groups Executive Committee and the Board.
The Committee has reviewed and challenged managements paper, which outlines the key principles and judgements used in the calculation, and concurs with the recognition of the asset accordingly.
28 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Corporate governance continued The policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Statement of Directors in respect external auditor specifies the types of work from which the external  auditor is excluded: for which the external auditor can be engaged As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that the Annual Report without referral to the Committee: and for which a case-by-case and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair balanced and understandable decision is required.
In order to safeguard the auditors objectivity and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess and independence, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees is the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
When monitored by the Committee.
Any work proposed in excess of 50% arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of of the audit fee is referred to the Committee.
Amounts below this processes including: arediscussed with the Chairman of the Committee.
the Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by appropriate senior A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the external employees across all areas of the business with overall supervision auditor during the period is set out below: being provided by the Director of Group Finance, Tax and Treasury 2015 2014 to ensure the Report is consistent across all sections: m m a comprehensive verification process is undertaken to ensure Fees payable to the Companys thefactual accuracy of the entire Annual Report: auditorfor the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 complete reviews of drafts of the Report are undertaken by the Executive Directors and other members of the Groups Executive Audit of the Group and its subsidiaries Committee: and pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.4 Audit services provided the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to final toallGroupcompanies 0.5 0.5 consideration by the Board.
Taxation and other services 0.2 0.2 External audit Total Group auditors remuneration 0.7 0.7 The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation In the current year, the Group incurred non-audit fees of 0.2m.
and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit, which Feesrelating to tax services of 0.1m principally comprised technical assigns responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity advice associated with relevant UK regulations.
Other fees of 0.1m and compliance by the external auditor to the Committee.
mainly represented advisory support on implementation of new Deloitte was appointed as auditor in 2010 when the Group demerged system.
Having undertaken a review of the non-audit related work, from Carphone Warehouse Group PLC.
In the year to 31 March 2014, the Committee has satisfied itself that the services undertaken Sharon Thorne was newly appointed as the Senior Statutory Auditor.
during the year did not prejudice the external auditors independence.
Deloitte has confirmed its independence to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each The Audit Committee considers the appointment of the external Committee meeting.
The Committees terms of reference, which are auditors annually and has a policy of formally tendering the audit available on request from the Company Secretary and are published every ten years.
on the Groups website www.
In the year to 31 March 2015, the Audit Committee discussed the In light of the assessments and review undertaken, the Committee effectiveness of the external audit process and audit quality with recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be retained as the theothers members of the Audit Committee.
An auditor assessment auditor of the Company.
This recommendation was endorsed by the tool will be completed after the year end audit by each member of Board.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and other members as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed of senior management who are invited to attend the Audit Committee at the forthcoming AGM.
The assessment tool covers all aspects of the audit process from the audit partners interaction with the Audit Committee through to the planning and delivery of the audit.
The feedback from this process will be considered by the Audit Committee and is provided to both the auditor and to senior management.
The results reviewed at the next Audit Committee meeting.
In the current year, the Committee believes the external auditor is performing as expected.
However, if this situation should change in the future, management will agree an action plan with the external audit partner, which the Audit Committee will keep under review.
