STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Corporate Governance UK Corporate Governance Code Governance structure The UK Corporate Governance Code, dated September 2012 the Code and issued by the Financial Reporting Council, Board is applicable to companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
As such, we are required to state how we have applied the principles contained in the Code and to disclose whether we have complied Corporate Audit Nominations Remuneration Chief Responsibility with the provisions of the Code during the Committee Committee Committee Executive Committee year.
Throughout the year from 1April 2014 to 31March2015 the Company has complied fully with the Code.
Research Executive Advisory Committee Group This Governance section of the Annual Report, including the Directors Remuneration Report plus the disclosures contained in the Risks section on pages 34 Board committees are distributed via the electronic Board to 36, provides details of how the Company The Board has delegated certain portal, generally five working days before applies the principles and complies with responsibilities to committees, details of the meeting.
In the few instances where a the provisions of the Code.
The Directors which can be found on pages 53 to 57 director is unable to attend a meeting, his responsibilities for the preparation of and on page 70. or her comments on the briefing papers financial statements are explained in the are given in advance to the Chairman.
Directors Statement of Responsibilities on Research Advisory Group page 80.
Their statement on going concern The Research Advisory Group RAG is Meetings are structured to facilitate open is on page 33.
Further information on the chaired by Dr Ajai Puri and comprises debate, and all directors participate in Code can be found on the Financial external subject matter experts and senior discussing safety, strategy, trading, financial Reporting Councils website www.
The RAGs remit performance and risk management.
covers reviewing the innovation pipeline Members of executive management attend The Board and providing insight into how leading-edge Board meetings and regularly make The role of the Board science and technology can be applied presentations.
The Board is collectively responsible for to enhance the Groups speciality food promoting the success of the Company and ingredients portfolio.
The RAG meets The Chairman continued to hold a short for providing entrepreneurial leadership within regularly, principally at the global Commercial discussion with the non-executive directors a framework of prudent and effective controls and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, collectively both immediately before and that enable risk to be assessed and USA and Dr Puri provides regular updates after each scheduled Board meeting.
It sets the Companys objectives, to the Board on the work of the RAG.
ensures that the Company has the necessary Directors attendance at Board meetings financial resources and people to meet them, Operation of the Board Number of and reviews managements performance.
Board meetings meetings Number of The Board also sets the Companys Values Directors as at eligible to meetings The Board and its Committees meet and ensures that its obligations to 31 March 2015 attend attended regularly according to a schedule linked shareholders and others are met.
Sir Peter Gershon 9 9 to key events in the Companys corporate calendar.
Ad hoc meetings are also arranged Javed Ahmed 9 9 There is a schedule of matters reserved 1 to consider matters requiring review and Nick Hampton 5 5 to the Board for decision, which includes decision outside the scheduled meetings.
Liz Airey 9 9 approval of: Six scheduled Board meetings were held William Camp 9 9 during the year ended 31 March 2015, 2 Group strategy Paul Forman 3 3 including one held at the global Commercial Annual budget and operating plans Douglas Hurt 9 9 and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, Major capital expenditure, acquisitions Virginia Kamsky 9 9 USA.
Three additional Board meetings were or divestments 3 Anne Minto 9 8 also held to consider proposals relating Interim dividends to the Groups business transformation Dr Ajai Puri 9 9 Full-year and half-year results programme and to review business Former directors Board and Company Secretary performance and the impact of changes 4 appointments Tim Lodge 4 4 in the business environment on the Groups 5 Senior management structure and Robert Walker 6 6 performance.
The Board also met on one responsibilities other occasion during the year under review 1 Joined the Board on 1 September 2014.
Treasury policies to focus on strategy.
It has also met twice 2 Joined the Board on 1 January 2015.
Directors conflicts of interest since the end of the financial year and prior 3 Unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
Systems of internal control and risk to the signing of this Annual Report.
4 Ceased to be a director on 31 August 2014.
5 Ceased to be a director on 31 December 2014.
The rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board is reviewed at each Board meeting and updated to reflect topical matters.
All substantive agenda items have comprehensive briefing papers which Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 47 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued Work undertaken during the year The Chairman non-executive directors to be independent.
During the year, the Board continued to Key responsibilities include: The Senior Independent Director, Liz Airey, oversee the ongoing transformation of is available to shareholders if they have any The effective operation, leadership and the Groups culture and business and issues or concerns which they have not governance of the Board considered all matters within its remit, resolved through the usual channels, and Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board, focusing in particular on the following: leads the annual review of the Chairmans and each director individually performance.
Safety Setting the style and tone of Board Operational performance including the discussions The non-executive directors have a wide performance of the Speciality Food Ensuring the directors receive accurate, range of skills and knowledge and combine Ingredients SFI and Bulk Ingredients BI timely and clear information.
broad business and commercial experience divisions and the effectiveness of the with independent and objective judgement.
manufacturing facilities and the global The Chief Executive The terms and conditions of appointment supply chain Key responsibilities include: of the non-executive directors can be The Groups approach to customer Proposing strategy to the Board and inspected at the Companys registered engagement and collaboration delivering it office and will be available for inspection The implementation of the project to Running the business at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
create one global IS IT system Communicating the Boards expectations Talent management and succession with regard to culture, values and As part of the annual Board effectiveness planning activities behaviours review, each director goes through a formal Major capital expenditure projects Ensuring the Board is aware of the performance review process.
All directors Restructuring of the Groups SPLENDA executive directors views on business completed this process during the year and, Sucralose business issues.
in line with the Code, Sir Peter Gershon and Re-alignment of the Eaststarch European Liz Airey, who have served for over six years, joint venture.
The Senior Independent Director have been subject to a particularly rigorous Key responsibilities include: review.
In the 2016 financial year, the Board will focus in particular on the areas listed on Acting as a sounding board for the Time commitment page 46.
Chairman All directors have disclosed any significant Conducting an annual review of the external commitments to the Board and Board allocation of time Chairmans performance confirmed that they continue to have The chart below shows the approximate Being available to shareholders if they sufficient time to discharge their duties time the Board has spent discussing agenda have any concerns that they have been to Tate & Lyle.
The other significant items during the year, separated into broad unable to resolve through the normal commitments of the Directors are set out on categories.
Strategy 30% all non-executive directors and the Chairman Board effectiveness 2.
Risk 23% is reviewed annually and the Board is Board diversity 3. Business results 12% comfortable that all Directors continue to As set out in the Boards statement on 4.
Execution of strategy 28% devote the necessary time to the Company.
diversity, published on the Groups website, 5.
Governance 7% the Directors believe that Board composition Advice and support is a key element of Board effectiveness and 5 1 The appointment and removal of the each member, and potential member, of Company Secretary is a matter for the the Board must be able to demonstrate the Board as a whole.
All directors have access skills, experience and knowledge required to the advice and services of the Company to contribute to the effectiveness of the Secretary, Lucie Gilbert, who is responsible Board.
Subject to that overriding principle, 4 for ensuring that Board processes are 2 the Directors believe that the Boards followed and that applicable rules and perspective and approach can be greatly 3 regulations are complied with.
enhanced through gender, age and cultural diversity.
It is the Boards policy to consider There is also a formal procedure whereby Division of responsibilities overall Board balance and diversity when directors can obtain independent The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive appointing new directors.
professional advice, if necessary, at the and Senior Independent Director are Companys expense.
separated and their responsibilities are set Board composition out in writing and agreed by the Board.
At the date of this Annual Report, the Board Information and professional comprised ten directors with deep development knowledge and experience in diverse The Chairman, assisted by the Company business sectors within global markets: the Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that Chairman, who has no executive the directors receive accurate, timely and responsibilities: two executive directors: and clear information on all relevant matters.
The names and biographies of the directors are on Directors receive ongoing training and pages 44 and 45. updates on relevant issues as appropriate, taking into account their individual Independence qualifications and experience.
The Company With the exception of the Chairman, who Secretary helps directors undertake any is presumed under the Code not to be other professional development they independent, the Board considers all the 48 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION consider necessary to assist them in about the challenges being faced by the background reading about the Group and carrying out their duties.
Visits to external Groups operations across the world.
Over details of Board procedures and other events are also arranged to help nonthe past three years, the Chairman and matters related to governance.
The Company executive directors in particular to gain a non-executive directors have visited 20 Secretary then worked with Paul Forman to deeper insight into the Groups operating of the Groups principal locations as part deliver a tailored induction programme, and environment.
During the year, in addition to of this programme.
the VP, Global Talent worked with Nick the Boards visit to Chicago, the Chairman Hampton to develop and implement an and the non-executive directors visited five Directors induction programme appropriate induction programme reflecting of the Groups sites in Europe and the US Two new directors joined the Board during his executive responsibilities.
as part of their independent site visit the financial year, Nick Hampton, Chief programme.
These visits provide directors Financial Officer, and Paul Forman, with the opportunity to interact with local non-executive director.
On appointment to management and gain in-depth knowledge the Board, each of the directors received Director Aim of induction programme Details of programme Paul Forman To increase Pauls knowledge of the Groups Paul visited the global Commercial and Food Innovation Non-executive director business, processes and its people.
Centre in Chicago, USA, the Groups plants in Lafayette, Indiana, and the London head office where he met with senior operational management and key functional heads.
Nick Hampton To accelerate Nicks transition into the CFO role Nick met with the external auditors, external advisers and Chief Financial Officer and to increase his understanding of the Groups Group lawyers.
He has also visited the Global Commercial business and operations, in particular the global and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, and group finance team and support functions.
sites in the US, Brazil, Germany and Poland.
Performance evaluation A review of the Boards effectiveness is undertaken each year.
The process is conducted by an external facilitator at least every third year and internally in the intervening years.
In 2013, the process was led by the Chairman and in 2014 by an external facilitator, Schneider Ross.
For the 2015 review, the Board decided that the Senior Independent Director, Liz Airey, should facilitate an internal review, supported by the Company Secretary, Lucie Gilbert.
The objective was to introduce a fresh approach and a new perspective.
2014 Board effectiveness review The actions undertaken after the 2014 Board effectiveness review are set out below.
Recommendations Actions taken Board dynamics Chief Executive to meet with executives who attend The practice of a post-meeting review with executive attendees is now well Board meetings immediately afterwards to discuss embedded and feedback is provided to the Chairman via the Chief Executive.
how the Board operated as a whole and to reflect The Nominations Committee considered the need for diversity of thinking on any learnings styles when leading the process which led to the appointment of Paul Thinking styles of candidates for the Board and Forman as a director Executive Committee to be taken into consideration In March 2015, all Directors participated in a project to review and build upon once skill set and experience have been confirmed the diversity of thinking and behavioural styles across the Board.
See page Undertake an  session for the 50 for more details Board focusing on boardroom dynamics, relationships and how to make even better use of Board diversity Board specifics Building on the progress made in 2013, further The Boards insights into customers perceptions, needs and behaviours proposals to be developed to drive customercontinued to evolve during the year with interactions with customer-facing centricity in the boardroom managers within and outside formal Board meetings.
The Board also met Board Committees to oversee the executive focus with representatives from a major customer during its visit to the global on building an inclusive culture Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA Revisit the timing and location of the scheduled Board The CR, Remuneration and Nominations Committees have reviewed actions meetings, in particular the timing of the annual Board to support and drive forward an inclusive culture through their work during strategy day the year The location of one Board meeting and the timing of the Board strategy day have been changed, as recommended Board mechanics Ways to further improve the support for incoming Incoming presenters are offered a one-to-one session with committee presenters to be considered and implemented chairmen, the Chairman of the Board, or the Company Secretary before A working party to be established to identify ways their first attendance at a meeting to enhance site visits A Board group has been established to support interaction at site visits Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 49 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued learnt from the experiences of the past year.
Review of the committees These actions are now being implemented The effectiveness of the Boards committees How are we and include the following: was also reviewed, with each of the individual committee chairmen facilitating leveraging our Improving the robustness of our investor their own committees review.
It was communications and processes confirmed that all committees continue diverse thinking Improving the way information is to provide effective support to the Board.
presented to the Board to allow more time Areas for further focus are noted in the styles?
for discussion of key issues during Board individual committee reports.
and Committee meetings A key recommendation from the 2014 Ensuring issues are fully surfaced in Board Review of individual directors Board effectiveness review was that, presentations through preand postThe review of the Chairman was carried out in addition to the annual effectiveness Board meeting reviews by Liz Airey, who sought the individual views review, an  session Applying additional disciplines to of each of the executive and non-executive should be carried out focusing on operational or strategic proposals that are directors, led a meeting of the non-executive boardroom dynamics, relationships submitted to the Board for consideration directors to discuss the feedback and then and how to make better use of the Driving forward succession planning provided feedback to the Chairman.
and talent development at senior management levels.
The Chairman led performance reviews Accordingly, in February 2015, each of the non-executive directors and the director completed a number of Progress will be monitored by the Chairman, performance of the Chief Executive and questionnaires on their psychological the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Financial Officer was considered by preferences, how they make decisions Company Secretary throughout the 2016 the Nominations Committee, in line with its and their personal thinking styles.
Their financial year and regular updates will be terms of reference.
These reviews confirmed responses were analysed by a business provided to the Board.
that each director continues to make an psychologist, Voula Grand, who effective contribution to the Boards work presented her findings to the Board in Whilst the discussion focused on areas and is well-prepared and informed about March 2015.
This formed the basis of an for improvement, the Board acknowledged issues they needed to consider.
In every engaged Board discussion, facilitated by that the feedback from the participants case, their commitment remains strong.
Voula, during which the Board reviewed recognised that the Board operates collective and individual experiences and effectively and works well as a team in agreed how the findings could be used many areas.
Numerous positive attributes to enhance the Boards effectiveness.
were also identified, including the recent changes to the Board, and the actions A number of actions were agreed, taken during the year to refresh the senior including: a review of how the Board management team.
allocates its time when it is together for meetings: obtaining feedback from meeting attendees: and building relationships outside the boardroom.
This was considered to be a valuable exercise 2015 Board effectiveness review and Voula will be invited back during the 2016 financial year to review progress.
issues raised in a healthy debate which In this review, we were 2015 Board effectiveness review I led at our March 2015 Board meeting.
Review of the Board determined to address the Whilst we agreed that the Board is generally The process involved the preparation of a effective, our discussion focused on what hard lessons we had learnt short questionnaire by Liz Airey, the Senior we had learnt from the events of the last Independent Director, working with Lucie during this very difficult year year and what we needed to do to improve Gilbert, the Company Secretary.
This was our performance as a Board going forward.
then circulated to all directors, the Executive This includes: how we address and follow VP General Counsel and the Company When the Board asked me to lead this up key concerns which surface during Secretary.
The results were then analysed years effectiveness review, we all agreed discussions in the boardroom: how and a report produced.
that it was imperative that a clear, frank proposals are presented to us: and how we and honest assessment of the Boards communicate both externally and internally.
The Boards discussions primarily focused performance during the past year should on: the Groups recent under-performance: be conducted.
It was also agreed that the We will be taking a number of steps to specific challenges faced within the business review should specifically assess whether address the personal and collective actions environment over the year: and how the lessons from the events of this year that we agreed this year and I will be effectively the Board had handled these.
had been fully taken on board.
working with the Chairman, the Chief It also discussed feedback from investors Executive and the Company Secretary to and other stakeholders on how the Board My boardroom colleagues provided an ensure that these actions are appropriately had responded to, and communicated, invaluable array of thoughtful and implemented.
Our progress will be reported the consequential under-performance.
A constructive comments and these, together in next years Annual Report.
number of individual and collective actions with comments from other stakeholders, were developed to address the lessons formed the basis of my discussion paper for Liz Airey the Board.
The Board fully engaged with the Senior Independent Director 50 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Re-election of directors qualifying indemnity provisions for the regularly by the Board.
Further information The Companys Articles of Association purposes of Sections 232 to 234 of the on the Groups risk management process require all directors to seek re-election Companies Act 2006 and copies are can be found on page 34. by shareholders at least once every three available for inspection at the registered years.
In addition, any directors appointed office of the Company during business The internal audit function provides by the Board must stand for re-election hours on any weekday except UK public independent and objective assessment of at the first AGM following his or her holidays.
Equivalent indemnities remain in the appropriateness and effectiveness of the appointment.
Any non-executive directors force for Tim Lodge and Robert Walker who Groups internal control systems to the Audit who have served for more than nine years ceased to be directors on 31 August 2014 and CR Committees, and to the Board.
It are subject to annual re-election.
has the authority to review any relevant aspect of the business and a duty to report The Code provides that all directors should The Company also maintains directors and on any material weaknesses.
The Group seek re-election on an annual basis and officers liability insurance cover, the level of has a risk-based internal audit plan which is all directors will seek re-election at the which is reviewed annually.
approved by the Audit and CR Committees.
The directors standing It is updated regularly to reflect changes to for re-election, with the exception of Javed Accountability the control environment.
Ahmed and Nick Hampton, do not have Internal control service contracts.
The Board has overall responsibility for The findings from audits are discussed with the Groups system of internal control and executive management and action plans At no time during the year has any director risk management and for reviewing its put in place where appropriate.
Progress had any material interest in a contract with effectiveness.
The objective of internal against these plans is monitored regularly the Group, being a contract of significance in control within Tate & Lyle is to support by the internal audit function.
Summaries relation to the Groups business.
A statement efficient implementation of the Groups of both audits and progress on any actions of directors interests in Company shares is strategy and effective operations whilst are discussed regularly at meetings of the set out on page 78. enabling it to respond appropriately to Audit and CR Committees.
significant business, operational, financial, Directors conflicts of interest compliance and other risks to achieving The Board also commissions external As permitted under the Companies Act the Companys objectives.
The system of specialists to supplement internal processes 2006, the Companys Articles of Association internal controls is designed to safeguard as appropriate.
Given the significant allow directors to authorise conflicts of the assets of the Group and to ensure the business transformation activity undertaken interest and the Board has a policy and reliability of financial information for both during the year, in addition to regular reports procedures for managing and, where internal use and external publication and from the internal audit function, the Board appropriate, authorising, actual or potential to comply with guidance published by the received reports from external specialists conflicts of interest.
Under those Financial Reporting Council, Internal retained to review key elements of the procedures, directors are required to Control: Revised Guidance for Directors transformation programme.
declare all directorships or other formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board appointments to organisations that are not recognises that internal control systems are Key features of the internal part of the Group and which could result designed to identify and manage, rather control system in actual or potential conflicts of interest, than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve The Groups internal control system has a as well as other situations which could result business objectives, and can only provide number of key features which ensure that in a potential conflict of interest.
The Board reasonable and not absolute assurance risk is monitored and managed throughout is required to review directors actual or against material mis-statement or losses the year, including those listed below.
potential conflicts of interest at least and the breach of laws and regulations.
Directors are required to disclose The schedule of matters reserved to the proposed new appointments to the Board which ensures that the directors Internal control system Chairman before taking them on, to ensure control, among other matters, all The Board determines the level of risk that that any potential conflicts of interest can significant strategic, financial and it is prepared to accept in the business risk be identified and addressed appropriately.
appetite and oversees the strategies for Any potential conflicts of interest in relation A clear organisational structure and limits significant risks that have been identified.
to proposed directors are considered by of authority in respect of items such as Executive management works within the the Board prior to their appointment.
capital expenditure, pricing and contract risk appetite and develops the mechanisms authorisation.
and processes to direct the organisation, Directors indemnities and A comprehensive planning and budgeting through setting the tone and expectations insurance cover system for all items of expenditure with from the top, delegating authority and As at the date of this Annual Report, an annual budget approved by the Board.
Line management indemnities are in force under which the Performance is reported monthly against has primary responsibility for compliance Company has agreed to indemnify the budget and prior year results: significant with Group policies, principles and directors, to the extent permitted by the variances are investigated: and revised compliance requirements.
In certain Companies Act 2006, against claims from forecasts for the current financial year and functions, notably safety and product third parties in respect of certain liabilities financial projections for future years are quality, executive management has also arising out of, or in connection with, the prepared regularly.
established separate assurance teams to execution of their powers, duties and The Group has comprehensive safety, oversee the effective execution of controls.
responsibilities as directors of the Company product quality assurance and or any of its subsidiaries.
The directors are environmental management systems.
The risk management function works with also indemnified against the cost of Where appropriate, these are executive management and the divisions to defending a criminal prosecution or a claim independently certified to internationally help identify, measure, monitor and report by the Company, its subsidiaries or a recognised standards: they are also subject significant risks.
The units report regularly regulator provided that where the defence is to a regular independent audit process.
on progress with the implementation of the unsuccessful the director must repay those Groups strategy, including its impact on defence costs.
These indemnities are the risk environment.
Key risks are reviewed Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 51 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued The Audit and CR Committees oversee of the financial affairs of their division and The Board considers that no other areas the operation of controls and report its results for the period.
The results of this identified for enhancement constituted a regularly to the Board.
If a failure of control financial disclosure process are reported significant weakness.
has a material impact, then a detailed to the Audit Committee.
investigation, analysis and action plan Remuneration would be provided to and considered by Joint ventures The Board has delegated to the the Audit Committee, the CR Committee All material joint ventures, as set out in Note Remuneration Committee responsibility and the Board as appropriate.
16, follow either the Groups formal systems for agreeing the remuneration policy for the of internal control, or their own internal Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Speak Up whistleblowing control procedures.
These separate Officer and senior executives.
The Chairman Speak Up, the Groups whistleblowing procedures are subject to review by the was a member of the Remuneration programme, has been in place for a number Groups internal audit function, and the Committee during the year but was not of years in all operations controlled by the Group works with its partners to ensure involved in any aspect of his own Group.
This programme, which is monitored that action plans are in place to address remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration by the Audit and CR Committees, is any issues identified during those reviews.
Report on pages 58 to 78 sets out the designed to enable employees, contractors, remuneration policy and the way in which customers, suppliers and other stakeholders 2015 review of the effectiveness of the it has been implemented.
to raise concerns confidentially in cases system of internal control where conduct is deemed to be contrary The effectiveness of the Groups internal Relations with shareholders to the Groups Values.
It may include, for control system is monitored throughout the Shareholder communications example, actions that may endanger safety: year.
Once a year the Board, with the The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer unethical practices: or criminal offences.
assistance of the Audit and CR Committees, and Group VP, Investor and Media Relations conducts its own review of the effectiveness maintain a regular programme of visits and The Speak Up programme provides a of the systems of risk management and presentations to institutional shareholders number of alternative ways to raise concerns internal control.
In 2015, this review was both in the UK and overseas.
The Chairman including a telephone reporting line, email, once again facilitated by the internal audit also undertook separate visits to institutional and a web-based reporting facility.
The function and covered the period from the shareholders and Liz Airey also met with multilingual communication facilities are start of the financial year to the date of this a number of institutional shareholders operated by independent service providers Annual Report.
The process included a following her appointment as Senior who submit a report to the Speak Up two-stage review to facilitate discussion, Independent Director.
Feedback on Committee for investigation.
with the Audit and CR Committees interaction with institutional shareholders discussing the results of the review at their is provided to all directors.
The Investor Reports received during the year were meetings in March and May 2015.
The Relations team provides the Board with kept strictly confidential and the concerns Board then discussed the output at its a report on any meetings with major identified were referred to appropriate meeting in May 2015. institutional shareholders at each scheduled managers within the Group for resolution.
All directors receive copies Where appropriate, action was taken to The 2015 review covered financial, of analysts reports on the Company.
In address the issues raised.
The reports were operational and compliance controls, Values addition, the Companys external advisors analysed and monitored to ensure the and behaviours, and the risk management give an annual briefing on investors process continued to be effective.
There process, and included questionnaires and perceptions of Tate & Lyle and its investor were no cases of fraud that were significant representation letters completed by relations activities.
The non-executive or that demonstrated material weaknesses management.
The internal audit function directors are encouraged to attend the in internal controls.
monitored and selectively checked the full-year and half-year results presentations.
results of the review, ensuring that the The Company aims to present a balanced Controls over financial reporting responses from management were and clear assessment in all its The financial reporting control system consistent with the results of its work during communications with shareholders.
Key covers the financial reporting process the year.
As part of this process, areas for announcements, financial reports and and the Groups process for preparing enhancements to internal controls, and other information about the Group can consolidated accounts, and includes associated action plans to deliver them, were be found on the Companys website, policies and procedures which provide for: identified.
Delivery of these enhancements www.
is being monitored by the Audit Committee The maintenance of records that, in or CR Committee as appropriate.
Annual General Meeting reasonable detail, accurately and fairly The 2015 AGM will be held at The QEII reflect transactions including the As set out in the Chief Executives Review, Centre in London on Wednesday 29 July acquisition and disposal of assets supply chain disruption significantly affected 2015 at 11.00 am.
Full details are set out in Reasonable assurance that transactions our business in the financial year, leading to the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders have are recorded as necessary to permit both additional costs of order fulfilment and the opportunity to put questions to the preparation of financial statements in missed sales opportunities.
The Board Board at the AGM on matters relating to accordance with International Financial asked Nick Hampton to lead a full diagnostic the Groups operations and performance.
Reporting Standards review of global demand, supply and Resolutions are decided by means of a poll Reasonable assurance regarding the planning processes, details of which are and the votes received in respect of each prevention or timely detection of on page 9.
The review confirmed that Resolution, together with the level of unauthorised use of the Groups assets.
improvements were needed to operating abstentions, are notified to the London and supply chain planning capabilities and Stock Exchange and published on the In addition, specific disclosure controls to the robustness of internal planning Companys website.
Shareholders are and procedures are in place to support the processes and a programme to implement offered the choice of receiving shareholder approval of the Groups financial statements.
these improvements is progressing well, documentation, including the Annual Twice a year, representatives from SFI and with a number of actions already in place.
Report, electronically or in paper format, BI certify that their reported information as well as the choice of submitting proxy provides a true and fair view of the state votes either electronically or by post.
52 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
