Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Audit Committee Report Main objective To assist the Board in fulfilling its I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman of the Audit Committee to corporate governance responsibilities summarise the ongoing responsibilities and objectives of the Committee: the work that relating to the Groups risk management has been carried out during 2015: and the priorities established for 2016. and internal control framework: internal audit process: financial reporting The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance responsibilities practices: external audit process: relating to the Groups risk management and internal control framework: internal audit process: and whistleblowing procedures financial reporting practices: the preparation and compliance of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts: external audit process: and whistleblowing procedures.
2015 Key achievements Fully implemented, and ensured The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are summarised on page 64, reflect its compliance with, the additional responsibilities under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and related regulations.
requirements introduced in the The Committee conducts an annual evaluation of its performance against its key objectives.
September 2014 update of the The evaluation for 2015 was formally assessed by the Committee at its February Code, including oversight of the design 2016 meeting.
and implementation of processes and controls designed to permit the Board to During 2015 the Audit Committee: make the new Viability Statement which Reviewed processes designed to meet new governance requirements, namely: appears on page 35 Fully implemented, and ensured compliance with, the additional requirements Oversaw the latest external evaluation introduced in the September 2014 update of the Code and continued to support the of the Internal Audit function and Board in ensuring that the requirements of the Code, especially provision C1, are met.
strategic risk review processes to ensure effectiveness and ability to support strong Oversaw the design and implementation of processes and controls designed to permit controls and governance across the Group the Board to make the new Viability Statement which appears on page 35.
Considered the Group Fraud Risk Undertook an assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Assessment to ensure appropriate Oversaw the design and implementation of robust processes to meet the requirements measures remain in place of the Guidance On Risk Management, Internal Control And Related Financial Ensured the continuing robustness And Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC of the risk management framework to in September 2014. changes in the operating environment Oversaw the external evaluation of the Internal Audit function and the Groups strategic 2016 Key areas of focus risk review processes by  LLP PwC.
Monitor the implementation of IT Reviewed the processes and controls within the Companys key corporate functions.
initiatives, particularly in the area Received the Group Fraud Risk Assessment for 2015 and ensured that appropriate of cyber security measures and controls remained in place and are robust to any changes to the Monitor the implementation of operating environment.
the new Group consolidation and Oversaw the change of the Companys basis of accounting from UKGAAP to FRS101 reporting system as reported last year.
Oversee the implementation of initiatives Ensured those systems and processes that impact key data to facilitate timely decision relating to the effectiveness of both the making were effective.
Internal Audit function and the Risk Management Framework Focused on the key processes that support the Groups execution of its strategy.
These are explained in detail in the Key priorities for 2016 are: Committee Chairmans Letter to To monitor the implementation of IT initiatives ensuring appropriate focus on cyber Shareholders opposite.
security in the key areas of customers, suppliers and employees.
To monitor the implementation of the new Group consolidation and reporting system to ensure it contributes to the efficiency and effectiveness of the Finance function.
To oversee the implementation of initiatives highlighted in the PwC report on the effectiveness of both the Internal Audit function and the Risk Management Framework.
The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that all the relevant codes and regulations are complied with to ensure that the business is operating in a controlled and managed environment.
Maintaining and enhancing the strong governance and risk management framework together with effective internal controls are our top priorities.
Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee 63 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee Reviewed Deloittes audit plan for the audit of the Companys 2015 accounts, and report on the progress of the audit to date.
Committee members Number of meetings attended Rob Rowley 3 3 at its December 2015 meeting: Kate Barker 3 3 Conducted the 2015 year end risk review.
Mike Hussey 3 3 Reviewed the outcome of PwCs independent review of the a Humphrey Singer 1 1 effectiveness of Internal Audit and the related review of the Companys approach to strategic risks.
a Appointed to the Board 9 December 2015.
Approved updates to the Audit Committee framework.
The members of the Audit Committee during 2015 and their attendance at meetings of the Committee during that year are as set out above.
Reviewed and confirmed the processes which allow the Committee to ensure that the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts meets the Details of the Committees activities during 2015 and priorities for 2016 requirements of Code provision C. 1. are contained in the Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on the preceding page.
Reviewed and confirmed the processes which allow the Committee to assess the performance of Deloitte during the audit of the The Audit Committee is chaired by Rob Rowley.
All members of the Companys 2015 full year reporting and make a recommendation Committee are Independent Non Executive Directors as required by to the Board as to their re-appointment at the 2016 AGM.
During the year, Humphrey Singer, who was appointed to the Board on 9 December 2015, joined the Committee on that date and Received a briefing on key accounting judgements with regard brings a wealth of financial experience and expertise, which will augment to the Companys 2015 accounts.
The Board has determined that Rob Rowley Oversaw the process leading to the Boards new Viability Statement, who currently chairs the audit committee at moneysupermarket.
com included for the first time in its 2015 reporting.
Group PLC and Humphrey Singer both have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
In addition, at each meeting, the Committee also reviewed its other areas of responsibility, including: Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Chairman of the Company and other Non Executive Directors who are The internal audit process and the review of reports received and not members of the Committee, the Executive Directors, Head of Internal actions arising therefrom.
Audit, other senior executives and by Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the external The risk management and internal control framework.
The Committee also meets privately with representatives from The Companys whistleblowing procedures and the adequacy Deloitte during at least two Committee meetings per annum, which of any investigations.
normally take place around the time of the full and half year financial statements, in order to discuss any matters which the auditor may Checking for any incidences of fraud, actual, alleged or precautionary, wish to raise in confidence, without any Executive Directors other and ensuring proper controls and a response plan are in place.
than the Secretary being present.
The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
At those In carrying out these activities, the Committee places reliance on meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which primarily includes: regular reports from executive management, Internal Audit and from the Companys external auditor.
In monitoring the financial reporting at its February 2015 meeting: practices, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, areas Reviewed the final draft 2014 Annual Report and Accounts together of judgement, the going concern assumptions and compliance with with any significant accounting and audit issues thereon: considering accounting standards and the requirements of the Code.
During the issues of materiality and the external auditors report on the progress year, the Committee reviewed, prior to publication, other statements of the audit: conducting a formal compliance check.
affecting the Group concerning price sensitive information as necessary.
Reviewed the draft Preliminary Announcement of the Groups 2014 External auditor results: and advised the Board regarding the appropriateness Re-appointment of the proposed final maintenance dividend for 2014.
As noted earlier, Deloitte LLP is the Companys external auditor.
Conducted the 2014 year end risk review.
Their performance is kept under regular review by the Board and the Oversaw the introduction of processes designed to address Audit Committee and the Committee undertook a formal assessment the new Viability Statement reporting for 2015. of the external audit process during the external audit of the Companys 2015 results and Deloittes suitability going forward.
at its July 2015 meeting: This review took the form of a checklist and questionnaire issued Reviewed the final draft half year statement for 2015 together with to Directors: executives involved in the detailed stages of the audit details of any significant accounting issues thereon: considering process: and a representative sample of employees in regional business issues of materiality and the external auditors report on its review units which were subject to audit.
The responses were augmented by of that statement.
external feedback on the relative performance of auditors generally, and Conducted the 2015 half year risk review.
A summary of the findings was prepared by Received the Group fraud risk assessment.
Internal Audit and considered by the Audit Committee at its February 2016 meeting.
Reviewed an overview of the accounting changes consequent upon the adoption of the FRS 101 basis of accounting.
The outcome of the review was that the Committee recommended to Agreed the brief for the external evaluation of Internal Audit and the Board, which in turn is recommending to shareholders in Resolution of the Companys approach to strategic risk.
13 on page 153, that Deloitte be re-appointed as the Companys auditor at the 2016 AGM.
Advised the Board regarding the appropriateness of the proposed interim maintenance dividend and special dividend for 2016.
64 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Tender The Audit Committee fully recognises and supports the importance of the independence of auditors.
Its review of the auditors performance A formal competitive audit tender process was carried out by the during 2015 included non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied that Company with regard to the 2008 audit, following which Deloitte was the carrying out of the above work did not, and will not going forward, selected to continue as external auditor to the Company.
The current impair the independence of the external auditor.
It also recognises that, lead engagement partner is Edward Hanson, whose responsibility for from time to time, there is a clear commercial advantage based on cost the audit under Deloittes partner rotation scheme commenced with the and timetable requirements in using the Companys auditors.
The Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put the external the value of non-audit services work was 0.2m in 2015 2014: 0.2m audit contract out to tender at least once every 10 years.
The Company as set out in Note 6 to the Accounts on page 110. also notes the guidance issued by the FRC by way of transitional arrangements.
Therefore, and having due regard to the foregoing, having The Committee is aware of proposals by the FRC that the current conducted a tender process in 2007 2008, the Company presently guidelines on the employment of the external auditor on non-audit work intends to defer tendering again, until completion of Edward Hansons should be amended, such that the value of non-audit work should be rotation in 2019, but will of course keep the matter under regular review, no more than 70% of the audit fee for the relevant year.
As can be noted taking into account the annual performance review to be conducted by from Note 6 to the Accounts, referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Committee as well as other relevant factors.
There are no contractual if the proposed new guidelines are adopted, the Company would have restrictions on the Companys selection of its external auditor.
been in compliance with them in 2015 and in each of the preceding two years.
Statement of compliance The Company has complied throughout the reporting year with the Internal Audit provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market The Internal Audit function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender processes and of the systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets: Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate risks: and to monitor the activities of the Group in accomplishing established objectives.
Appointment of the auditor for non-audit services Following each review an Internal Audit report is provided to both The Audit Committee has a formal policy on whether the Companys the management responsible for the area reviewed and the Group external auditor should be employed to provide services other than Management Team GMT.
These reports outline Internal Audits opinion audit services.
In line with the Code, the Committee has regard to the of the management control framework in place together with actions relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services indicating improvements proposed or made as appropriate.
Executive, the GMT and senior management consider thereports This policy requires that there should be a competitive tender process on a regular basis and are responsible for ensuring thatimprovements except in narrowly dened circumstances where it is considered that, are made as agreed.
A database of audit recommendations and based on condentiality, past knowledge and other commercial reasons, improvement initiatives is maintained.
Follow-up and escalation there is an advantage in using a single tender procurement procedure.
processes ensure that such improvements are implemented and fully embedded in a timely manner.
The Committee has determined that the following assignments should not be undertaken by the auditors: The Company belongs to and participates in industry-wide forums and other initiatives aimed at combating fraud within Bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records the construction industry.
Summaries of all key Internal Audit reviews and activity and resulting Internal audit outsourcing services.
reports are provided to the Audit Committee for review and discussion.
The provision of advice on large Information Technology systems.
The Internal Audit function also formally reviews proposed related party Services connected with valuation, litigation support, legal, recruitment transactions, such as purchases by employees from Group companies, or remuneration.
to ensure proper procedures are followed and that such procedures The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the maintenance are undertaken strictly in accordance with the formal policy in place of good governance, best practice and auditor independence and, where applicable, company law.
During 2015, an independent formal evaluation of the Internal Audit Non-audit services in 2015 predominantly related to work undertaken function was carried out on behalf of the Audit Committee by PwC as a result of Deloittes role as auditors, in particular the interim review in and its nding was that Internal Audit continues to operate effectively.
connection with the Companys half year results for 2015 and tax work In addition, a number of initiatives were progressed during 2015 to which included some advisory services to the Company and its ensure the Internal Audit function continues to meet both current subsidiaries.
Deloitte also performed certain real estate advisory work, best practice and the evolving needs of the Group.
for which they were selected as they were considered to be the best The Internal Audit Charter, which codifies the aims, modus operandi supplier for that service.
All independence considerations were and outputs of Internal Audit, was reviewed by the Committee for considered with regard to these services, in line with the above policy, ongoing appropriateness.
and were fully compliant with it.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access at all times to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board and also to the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
65 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Risk management and internal control At its meeting in February 2016, the Board, after conducting its own The Group has established an ongoing process of risk management review and after reviewing more detailed assessments from the and internal control, applying Main Principle C. 2 and its Supporting Audit Committee, remained satisfied that the system of internal control Code Provisions of the Code.
The Board is responsible for the continued to be effective in identifying, assessing, and ranking the various effectiveness of the system of internal control, which has been designed risks facing the Company: and in monitoring and reporting progress to meet the requirements of the Group and the risks it encounters, in mitigating their potential impact on the Company.
The Board also including taking account of environmental, social and governance approved the statement of the Principal Risks set out on pages 36 considerations.
The systems cannot eliminate the risk of failure but to 37 of this Annual Report.
rather seek to manage both the likelihood of their occurrence and Whistleblowing the extent of their impact, and can only provide reasonable and not The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a clear absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
process that includes an externally facilitated hotline through which The Principal Risks facing the Company, as assessed by the Board, any person, including employees of the Company, may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, other are set out on pages 36 to 37, together with information on action taken and or planned to mitigate each one.
operational matters or inappropriate behaviours in the work place.
All whistleblowing cases are formally investigated by the Head of The Board makes its assessment of risk half yearly, after overseeing Internal Audit, Group Director of Health, Safety and Environment a bottom-up and top-down review of risk in all areas of the business.
where appropriate, Group Human Resources Director and or the Action to mitigate the effect of each one is led by the Chief Executive Group Legal Director and Company Secretary depending on the either directly or indirectly.
The Chief Executive is apprised of all allegations and conclusions of the review.
The Boards assessments use a standard methodology which takes into account environmental, social and governance considerations.
Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome are reported to the In compliance with the Code, the Board also regularly reviews the Audit Committee.
Whistleblowing is a standing item on each Audit effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in providing Committee agenda, which allows the Committee to regularly review a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
The Boards the adequacy of the policy in line with its requirement to do so under monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational, the Code.
The process is regularly reviewed and during 2015 an compliance and assurance controls which include risk management.
independent, external appraisal was conducted, which confirmed that the Companys policy in this respect was adequate.
A number Compliance with the Groups system of internal control is primarily of administrative recommendations were however made and these driven and co-ordinated through compliance with an established have been addressed.
The Committee is satisfied that the policy Operating Framework OF supported by function manuals covering and its administration remain effective.
These include clear levels of delegated authority, responsibility and accountability, and are subject to periodic review Change of basis of accounting to ensure they remain appropriate and proportionate to the Groups As reported last year, the Company changed its basis of accounting changing strategic and operating requirements.
Adherence to the OF with effect from 1 January 2015, from UKGAAP which the Financial is monitored by management and assessed independently by Internal Reporting Committee FRC announced should change for all relevant Audit.
At its half year and year end meetings, the Board reviews risk companies from that date to FRS 101.
The reason for choosing FRS in relation to the Companys strategic objectives and its current plans 101 is that it is based on International Financial Reporting Standards to deliver them.
It also reviews progress and performance in action IFRS, as endorsed by the European Union, and currently used for taken to mitigate the impact of those risks.
It was therefore proposed that the Companys basis of accounting be changed from UKGAAP to The Board is supported in this by more regular and detailed reviews, FRS 101 with effect from 1 January 2015. by the Audit Committee, including the review of progress reports from Internal Audit, and by operational risk reviews across the business, The Audit Committee continues to support this change, which is led by the GMT.
These reviews during 2015 resulted in a number largely a technical matter designed to ensure that the Companys of enhancements to internal controls, designed to reduce or better accounts continue to be prepared in an appropriate way, which meets manage risk across the business.
These included continuing reviews the standards applied by the accounting and auditing bodies of the UK, of the effectiveness of the embedding, during 2014, of the COINs and remains in line with current law, regulation and guidance.
During and 1B1S ERP business systems, which have improved the accuracy, the year, the Committee oversaw the change and ensured that it had timeliness and uniformity of data used to manage, and report on, no detrimental effect on the Companys reporting for 2015. the Groups businesses, and further work towards updating the OF The Group Accounts are not impacted by this change.
The Group and Commercial and Finance Manuals, which guide the businesses in ensuring compliance with Group standards.
Statutory Accounts are, and will continue to be prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
During 2015, the Committee oversaw the introduction of new and revised processes and reporting, designed to meet the requirements Going concern The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities, taking of the FRCs September 2014 Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
This aims to into account the Principal Risks identified on pages 36 to 37.
Having considered these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the bring together elements of best practice for risk management: to prompt boards to consider how to discharge their responsibilities in relation to Groups financing arrangements and capital structure provide both the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Group Principal Risks faced by the Company: embed risk management and internal control in the Companys business processes: and highlights to conduct its business for at least the next 12 months.
Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going related reporting responsibilities.
These new regulations applied for the first time to the Companys 2015 reporting, and the Committee concern basis.
believes they will enhance sound stewardship by the Board in these areas.
The principal change is the inclusion of the new Viability Statement, referred to later in this Report.
66 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Viability Statement significant items A new requirement for the Companys 2015 reporting, arising from As part of the above process, the Committee considered the following the FRCs September 2014 Guidance on Risk Management, Internal significant items in connection with the preparation of the 2015 Annual Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, is the inclusion Report and Accounts: of a Viability Statement.
This is designed to be a longer term view That the carrying value of inventory is reective of the lower of cost of the sustainability of the Companys strategy and business model and net realisable value and all relevant disclosures are included in the and related resourcing, in the light of projected wider economic and accounts.
The Company carries out a net realisable value assessment market developments.
for inventory every six months, the process and results of which are During 2015, the Committee oversaw the introduction of processes discussed by the Audit Committee.
designed to enable the Board to make this statement.
The statement That the assumptions used in calculating the net pension liabilities appears on page 35 together with details of the processes, assumptions, are reasonable and supported by appropriate data and external and testing which underpin it.
The Company takes external advice, including market-wide Annual Report and Accounts 2015 comparisons, in valuing pension assets and liabilities.
These are discussed and agreed by the Committee.
Code provision C. 1 The Board has responsibility under C. 1 of the Code and its Supporting The Committee also satisfied itself that the underlying business Principles and Code Provisions, for preparing the Companys Annual processes that dictate the points of recognition for revenue, and the Report and Accounts: for ensuring that it presents a fair, balanced and way in which inventory is costed and allocated, remain appropriate.
understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects: As part of the year-end process the Audit Committee received and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess updates on other judgemental areas including provisions and taxation.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The presentation of exceptional items and changes to IFRS were also Process considered when reviewing the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The review of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts took the form Conclusion of a detailed assessment of the collaborative process of drafting them, A summary of the process and of the Committees findings, was which involves the Companys Investor Relations: Finance: Company considered by the Board at its meeting on 25 February 2016.
The Secretariat: and Internal Audit Departments, with guidance and input outcome of that review was that the Committee confirmed to the Board from external advisers.
It ensured that there is a clear and unied link that the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts met the requirements of between this Annual Report and Accounts and the Companys other Code provision C. 1, and the Boards formal statement to that effect, external reporting, and between the three main sections of the Annual to meet the requirements of the Code, is set out on page 50.
Report and Accounts the Strategic Report: the Governance Reports: and the Accounts.
In particular, the Committee: Reviewed all material matters, as reported elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Ensured that it correctly reected the Companys performance in the reporting year, as described on pages 12 to 41.
Ensured that it correctly reected the Companys business model, as described on pages 18 to 33.
Ensured that it correctly described the Companys strategy, as described on pages 16 to 17.
Ensured that it presented a consistent message throughout.
Considered whether it presented the information in a clear and concise manner, illustrated by appropriate KPIs, to facilitate shareholders access to relevant information.
