Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee Report Main objective To ensure there shall be a formal, I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman of the Nomination Committee rigorous and transparent process to summarise the important ongoing objectives and responsibilities of the Committee: the for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, its Committees and to work that has been carried out during 2015: and its plans for the coming year.
other senior roles and in conjunction The Committees key objective is to support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to ensure with the Board to ensure effective that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the appointment of new Directors diversity improvements and both to the Board and to senior management positions, and to ensure that effective succession succession planning processes planning and contingency planning processes are in place across the Group.
across theGroup In meeting its objectives, both the Committee and the Board take into account diversity 2015 Performance including gender and fully support the various Government initiatives in this key area, including With the Diversity and Inclusivity the latest proposals from Lord Davies of Abersoch that the proportion of women on the boards Working Party, which was set up in of FTSE 350 companies should increase from 25% to 33% by the end of 2020.
Diversity and 2014, now up and running, progress inclusivity remains very much on the Taylor Wimpey agenda with regular reporting now taking has been achieved in these key place including a specific annual update and discussion.
areas although there is still a lot of work to be done in order to achieve During 2015, I and three female colleagues from the business were delighted to attend the Companys diversity policy and and participate in the Women on Boards Conference held by the Department for Business wider diversity and inclusivity strategy Innovation and Skills, as this was aimed at increasing the number of women considered Reviewed the Board structure, its for appointment to FTSE 350 boards.
We were also pleased to support a number of other skill sets, succession and contingency leading initiatives which are set out in more detail in this Nomination Committee Report.
planning and recruited a new The Committees objectives, the strategy for delivering them, progress made towards them Independent Non Executive Director during 2015 and targets and plans for 2016 are described in more detail in this Report.
Finalised contingency and longer-term succession planning for all senior The Committees achievements during 2015 and its plans for 2016 are set out on the left.
roles across the business, linked Key priorities are to: to talent development and Continue to focus on succession planning across the Group.
targeted training programmes Drive the Companys diversity and inclusivity agenda at all levels of the Group.
Formalised the induction process in place for newly appointed Directors Regularly review our succession and contingency planning across the Group, and ensure that there is a clear link to individuals career development and professional development.
2016 Objectives The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that the present and future composition To further progress the diversity and inclusivity agenda across of the Board and the Groups executive management is appropriate for the delivery of the the business, including partnering Groups strategy and that all relevant UK Corporate Governance Code the Code initiatives with selected third parties requirements continue to be met.
Monitor the developing requirements for reporting any gender pay gap and ensure processes and controls are in place to facilitate any necessary reporting in that area Given their importance, to ensure that the succession and contingency plans are regularly reviewed and updated Succession planning, together with people development and diversity and inclusivity, are top business priorities, which we will keep at the heart of our agenda.
Kevin Beeston Chairman of the Nomination Committee 58 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee also guides the Board in assessing from time to time whether the Board has the correct balance of expertise Committee members Number of meetings attended and in arranging orderly succession planning for appointments to Kevin Beeston Chairman 2 2 the Board and in respect of senior management across the Group.
Kate Barker 2 2 As highlighted in the Committees 2015 performance opposite, the Margaret Ford 2 2 work of the Committee during the year focused strongly on progressive Mike Hussey 2 2 succession planning at all senior levels of the Company with a view to a Pete Redfern 0 2 identifying key prospects and tailoring training and development plans to allow them to demonstrate their potential for future progression.
Rob Rowley 2 2 b Humphrey Singer 0 0 As part of this process, management below Board level is regularly provided with access to the Board, including the opportunity to attend a Stood down from the Committee on 1 January 2015.
Board meetings and other Board related functions in order to give b Appointed on 9 December 2015. presentations on specialist topics, project work and the performance of specic Business Units and Divisions.
This helps to provide valuable The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and is exposure to the Board for up and coming management as well as composed of a majority of Independent Non Executive Directors as being extremely valuable for Board members.
Its members are set out in the table above.
Pete Redfern Chief Executive stood down from the Committee with effect The Committee meets formally at least twice a year.
During 2015, from 1 January 2015, such that the Committee is now comprised of in addition to driving the recruitment of an additional Independent Non the Chairman and all Independent Non Executive Directors who are Executive Director, the Committees principal agenda items consisted members of the Board.
of: longer term succession planning, reviewing and approving the key persons contingency plan and considering progress on diversity across The Committee has procedures in place with regard to maintaining the business.
Wider succession planning and diversity remained on a formal, rigorous and transparent process for Board appointments, the Board agenda regularly throughout the year.
ensuring that appointments to the Board are made on merit and assessed against objective criteria.
The Committee guides the Board In addition, and in line with the Code, the Chairman and the Senior in regularly assessing whether there is an appropriate balance of Independent Director, independent of each other, hold meetings at least expertise and skills on the Board and other diversity considerations, annually with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive Directors whilst also having regard to the 2011 report from Lord Davies of present.
The Chairman also liaises closely each year with each Director Abersoch on Women on Boards the Davies Report and the 2015 as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
Report which raised the target from 25% to 33% by the end of 2020.
Appointments and succession planning A description of how appointments are typically made to the Board It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed is set out below and this was followed in connection with the recent appointments to the Board, and succession planning, are based appointment of Humphrey Singer to the Board as an Independent on merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due Non Executive Director on 9 December 2015. regard to the benets of diversity and inclusiveness, including gender, age, ethnicity, thought and experience.
Following the appointment of The Committee oversees on behalf of the Board, and advises the Humphrey Singer as an Independent Non Executive Director during the Board on, the identication, assessment and selection of candidates year, the Board now consists of nine Directors, two of whom are women, for appointment to the Board.
The Committee has a formal, rigorous representing 22% of the Board.
The Board fully supported the 25% and transparent process against objective criteria.
The process target established by the Davies Report and also fully supports the of appointment of Humphrey Singer, prior to the decision of the increased target going forward of 33% by 2020.
The Board aspires Board, included: to increase the current level of representation to at least 25% and will The engagement of independent recruitment consultants, also work towards achieving the higher target of 33% by 2020, whilst JCA Group, who have no other connection to the Company.
continuing to also have due regard to other aspects of diversity as The preparation of a long list of potential candidates which outlined above.
took into account diversity considerations and the outcome The Committee also reviews the time commitments of each Director of the Committees latest review of the composition and skill both prior to all appointments and periodically so as to ensure that sets of the Board.
all Directors can discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The selection of a short list of suitable candidates meeting During the year, we have increased our emphasis on succession the Committees criteria.
planning for people at all levels of the organisation.
As part of this, Interviews of those candidates by the Chairman, CEO, Group both the Board and the Nomination Committee have visibility of a Finance Director and Secretary.
wide range of employees with leadership potential together with their Following selection of the proposed candidate, interviews individual development plans.
Each Divisional Chairman of the housing with the remaining members of the Board and the taking business chairs a divisional Talent Management Board TMB comprising up of detailed references.
senior executives of the Division together with HR representatives.
59 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee Report continued Each TMB then makes recommendations to the Group Talent Board Diversity policy which is chaired by the Chief Executive.
These Boards regularly review The Board remains committed to the belief that embracing diversity succession planning and related development and training requirements and inclusion will enable it to succeed better through a workforce across the UK Group.
Further actions to support succession planning that is more creative and innovative.
The Board has adopted a policy include the development of career paths linked to experience, exposure on diversity which is set out on page 62 and is also available on the and education: an assessment and development centre: and the Companys website at www.
co. uk corporate investorpromotion of the Companys mentoring scheme.
We are also focusing relations corporate-governance upon recruiting individuals from a wider range of backgrounds, The Company continues to seek to actively embrace the business experience and industries at all levels.
and localcommunities in which it operates and will strive to reflect During 2015, our UK management structure was reviewed and resulted their richness and character so as to include such aspects as in the appointment of two new Divisional Chairmen, both through internal gender, raceand religion and also diversity of thought, promotion.
This restructuring will facilitate improved operational control, background andexperience.
better targeting of capital allocation, and a wider talent pool with great The Company is also committed to ensuring that our people are free potential for further development.
from any direct or indirect discrimination, harassment, bullying or any Succession planning remains a key area of focus across all levels of the other form of victimisation.
Our grievance and harassment policies organisation.
During the year, the Committee considered in detail short ensure that any reported incidents are investigated.
In addition, our and long term succession planning for Directors and key executives, whistleblowing policy encourages employees to speak up, including together with appropriate development plans.
The Group Management through an independent Safecall telephone facility, against any Team GMT regularly reviews the Companys succession plans and inappropriate practices or behaviour and we regularly publicise the policy talent pipelines, with further action to support these areas continuing.
to all staff and workers on site.
Due to the importance of whistleblowing, The Committee also oversaw the establishment of contingency and this policy, and the Companys processes for addressing matters raised longer term succession planning for all senior roles, linked to talent under it, was independently reviewed during 2015 and was found to be development and targeted training programmes.
The Committee notes operating well some improvements in process and documentation the publication by the Financial Reporting Council FRC of consultation were recommended and these are being implemented.
around this area and will be monitoring developments carefully.
Diversity and inclusion remained an area of clear focus throughout There was one change in the composition of the Board during 2015, 2015 which will continue into 2016 and for future years.
A Working Party namely, the appointment of Humphrey Singer on 9 December 2015. which includes a variety of members from across the business has been Humphrey brings considerable experience and expertise in the areas established to create a diversity and inclusion strategy and to implement of finance and due to his background, also in other areas such as new initiatives so as to improve our performance in these key areas.
digital solutions and customer services and will therefore enhance The strategy will focus on the challenges faced in developing an inclusive the overall skill sets of the Board.
On his appointment to the Board, and diverse workforce.
This includes working with specialist external Humphrey joined the Nomination Committee, and the Audit Committee bodies to maximise all opportunities, including: where his experience, including from his current role as Group Finance Developing our policy and both raising and meeting the expectations Director of Dixons Carphone plc, will be of considerable benefit.
The composition and performance of the Board and its Committees Enhancing our awareness training programme.
were considered during the year and it was concluded that the Improving how we attract and recruit candidates to enable Board and each Committee continues to function effectively.
us to succeed through a workforce that is inclusive, creative The Committee believes that the balance of the Board, consisting and innovative.
ofaChairman, three Executive Directors and five Independent During 2015 a number of key activities have taken place: Non Executive Directors, recently augmented by Humphrey Singers additional skill set, will continue to provide the right blend of experience, The Working Party undertook several activities all aimed at better expertise and challenge in order to take the Company forward in line embedding a diversity and inclusivity culture within Taylor Wimpey.
with its strategy whilst ensuring and maintaining good governance Specialist independent consultants were engaged to work with the and best practice.
This will however be kept under regular review Company with the aim of reviewing and assessing our current practices in line with the guidance set out in the Code.
Phase 1 of our diversity and inclusion strategy : to develop practical strategies and action plans Phase 2 of the strategy : with a view At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 28 April to rolling out education and training modules to all of the Groups 2016 AGM, all Directors will again be subject to re-election or, in the business units in 2016 Phase 3 of the strategy.
case of Humphrey Singer, to election, by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
Biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 44 to 45.
60 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk As part of the Review Assessment phase Phase 1 of the strategy, The Board believes that by embracing diversity and inclusiveness, approximately 250 employees were engaged in several activities theCompany will better understand how peoples differences and including one to one interviews, focus groups, and unconscious bias similarities can be utilised for the benefit of not only the Company but tests.
The data from these activities is currently being assessed and most importantly also for individuals and society as a whole.
It is the will help to influence our action plans and relevant training modules Boards view that having a diverse workforce will improve the Companys during 2016. ability to deliver its strategy: the homes that it builds: and its services.
We have engaged with the Leonard Cheshire Disability Change 100 Diversity has continued to be a key item on the overall UK governance Programme, a charitable initiative which provides talented disabled agenda during 2015.
Within Taylor Wimpey, diversity has remained students with the opportunity to participate in a summer internship a key priority for the Boards agenda and this will continue to be the and professional development programme of 100 days work case during 2016.
Although the Board will continue to appoint on merit, experience.
We fully intend to engage with the Programme further we recognise that boards will generally perform better when they include during 2016. top quality people from a range of backgrounds and perspectives.
We have also engaged with the Career Transition Partnership which Diversity will continue to be a key consideration when contemplating is a Ministry of Defence led initiative aimed at providing resettlement the composition and refreshing of the Board and indeed our senior services for UK armed forces personnel as they transition to and wider management.
As noted opposite, during 2015 the Company put in place systems We have continued to promote our Employer of Choice and to measure and monitor diversity around the Group more effectively.
diversity agenda through numerous publications and have attended With regard to gender, as at 31 December 2015: meetings involving the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, The Board consisted of nine Directors, two of whom are Disability Confident, Stonewall, Women in Property, the Men as women 22%.
Change Agents Working Group and participated in the Royal Institute Of British Architects See Me Join Me campaign aimed at increasing The GMT, which is effectively the executive Board of Taylor Wimpey the appeal of our industry to women.
UK Limited, our main operating company, consisted of 10 executives, three of whom are women 30%.
We continue to actively work with our recruitment partners to ensure they understand and embrace our diversity and inclusion agenda.
There is one woman out of 24 Regional Managing Directors 4%.
We recruited 98 apprentices 2014: 99, including 29 site management Women across the Group account for 32% 2014: 32% apprentices, 22 management trainees 2014: 50 and 19 graduates of the workforce.
We remain on target with the recruitment of our site 27% 2014: 29% of new starters with the Company during 2015 management apprentices.
We increased the number of employees with disabilities recruited.
While we are making reasonable progress, we of course recognise Working with key partners we hope to increase more permanent that we still have more work to do in order to fulfil our overall diversity and secondment opportunities for people with disabilities.
ambitions and, as stated on page 58, it is a priority for 2016 to We introduced a new HR Information System which we believe will achieve further progress in this area.
better capture data relating to all aspects of diversity and inclusion which will assist us with the management and monitoring of our strategy going forward.
We continued to engage with a number of specific diversity partners in 2016 with an objective to drive the attraction and development of a more diverse and representative workforce.
We continued the diversity discussion group meetings with the Chief Executive, Group HR Director and different sections of the workforce: to further embed diversity and inclusiveness at all levels of the Company.
61 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee Report continued Progress of our diversity policy The Companys plans and progress in implementing its diversity policy, benchmarked against appropriate targets, are set out below.
Progress is measured and monitored by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
Diversity policy Strategy Progress We will examine our culture and The Working Party undertook several activities all aimed at embedding a diversity and inclusivity Taylor Wimpey operates in diverse communities.
We believe practices to determine what further culture within Taylor Wimpey.
Specialist consultants were engaged to work with us with the aim that embracing this diversity actions can be taken to improve of reviewing and assessing our current practices Phase 1 of our diversity and inclusion strategy will enable us to succeed diversity and inclusion within to develop practical strategies and action plans Phase 2 of the strategy with a view to rolling through a workforce that is Taylor Wimpey.
out education and training modules to all of the Groups business units in 2016 Phase 3 of inclusive, creative and innovative.
As part of the Review Assessment Phase of the strategy approximately 250 employees were We have dened diversity engaged in several activities including one to one interviews, focus groups, and unconscious to mean that we actively bias tests.
The data from these activities is being assessed and will help to inuence our embrace the business and action plans and relevant training modules during 2016. local communities in which we operate and will strive to reect their richness and character to include such aspects as gender, race, disability and religion but also diversity of thought, background and experience.
Managing diversity is about We will identify people We have engaged with the Leonard Cheshire Disability Change 100 Programme, a charity that valuing everyone as an management practices that provides talented disabled students with the opportunity to participate in a summer internship individual valuing people assist a diverse workforce and professional development programme.
Feedback from the students thus far has been as our employees, customers to achieve their full potential.
positive and we intend to engage with the programme further during 2016. and clients.
People have different We will use our Community We have also engaged with Career Transition Partnership, which is a Ministry of Defence led needs, values and beliefs.
Our Engagement Programme initiative aimed at providing resettlement services for UK armed forces personnel as they people management practice to heighten awareness of personal transition to civilian life.
demands that employment interaction and valuing individuals.
propositions are both We have continued to promote our Employer of Choice and diversity agenda through numerous consistently fair but also We will increase the opportunities publications and have attended meetings involving the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, exible and inclusive in ways for young people to join the Disability confident, Stonewall, Women in Property and participated in the Royal Institute Of that assist our people while Company and will promote British Architects See Me Join Me campaign aimed at increasing the appeal of our industry supporting our business continuous personal development.
We believe that everyone We will ensure that all managers We continue to work with our recruitment partners to ensure they understand and embrace should have the right to equal involved in recruitment and our diversity and inclusion agenda.
access to employment and, selection receive training that We recruited 98 apprentices 2014: 99, including 29 site management apprentices, when in our employ, to equal incorporates the areas of diversity 22 management trainees 2014: 50 and 19 graduates 2014: 19.
We remain on target pay and access to training and promoting equality.
with the recruitment of our site management apprentices.
We will extend our recruitment There was an increase in the number of employees with disabilities recruited.
Working with sources in order to attract a more key partners we hope to increase more permanent and secondment opportunities for people diverse range of applicants.
We introduced a new HR Information System which we believe will better capture data relating to all aspects of diversity and inclusion.
We continue to partner with a number of specic diversity partners in 2016 with an objective to drive the attraction and development of a more diverse and representative workforce.
Continue the diversity discussion group meetings with the Chief Executive, Group HR Director and different sections of the workforce: to further embed diversity and inclusiveness at all levels of the Company.
We are committed to ensuring We will encourage our people to A specic focus of the Companys whistleblowing campaign is on diversity, encouraging that our people are free from any speak out and report any direct or employees to speak up against any inappropriate practices or behaviour.
direct or indirect discrimination, indirect discrimination, harassment Our grievance policy ensures that any reports of harassment or bullying are investigated harassment or bullying.
We will act promptly and acted upon.
not tolerate any behaviour that in addressing any inappropriate detracts from this.
We acknowledge that we must Diversity will be promoted from Diversity is a core message within our strategy: a main item at our Executive and continue to promote diversity in the highest level and we will ensure Regional Management meetings: and is a standing agenda item at GMT meetings.
order to create an organisation that our people understand the The next stage of the improvement initiative, which commenced in November 2015, is to that attracts, supports and benets of having a diverse and use the data gathered from our research as the basis for the development phase, which will promotes the broadest range inclusive workforce.
further develop the Companys strategy in these areas and identify the key actions to drive of talent.
Establishing an the project forward during 2016. organisational culture with diversity as a core value will enable individuals to reach their full potential and provide the best service to our customers.
