STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Composition and constitution England and Wales and Liz Airey was an The Audit Committee, which comprises investment banker and former finance Audit Committee four non-executive directors, oversees the director of Monument Oil and Gas plc.
Groups financial reporting and internal Report controls and provides a formal reporting link The Chief Financial Officer: VP, Group Audit with the external auditors.
The Committees and Assurance: Group VP, Finance and Dear shareholder terms of reference, which are reviewed Control: Executive VP, General Counsel: I am pleased to present the activities of annually, are available on the Companys and representatives of the external auditors the Audit Committee during the year.
are normally invited to attend each meeting.
The Chairman of the Board and Chief On 1 January 2015, we welcomed Paul Main responsibilities of the Audit Executive attend meetings of the Committee Forman to the Board and this Committee: Committee by invitation.
In addition, the Committee and I succeeded Liz Airey as Committee These include: continues to enhance its exposure to the Chairman on 1 March 2015.
I would like business through its programme of key Overseeing the Groups financial reporting to thank Liz for her diligent leadership.
topics for in-depth review, which involves process and monitoring the integrity of operational and other key senior managers the financial statements and formal During the year, in addition to our usual presenting to the Committee.
announcements relating to the Groups matters, including the financial results for financial performance the full year and half year and the interim The VP, Group Audit and Assurance and Reviewing significant financial reporting management statements, applicable the external auditors have direct access to, issues and accounting policies and accounting policies and going concern and meet regularly with, the Chairman of disclosures in financial reports assumptions, we continued to undertake the Committee outside formal Committee Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups in-depth reviews of key topics.
internal control procedures and risk included a review of the functional and management systems presentational currencies used by the Independence of the external auditors Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal Group, the finance controls used in The Groups external auditors are audit function Speciality Food Ingredients and  LLP PwC and Overseeing the Groups relationship with commodities risk management.
the Committee operates a policy to safeguard the external auditors including the level their objectivity and independence.
of fees Earlier in the Annual Report, we set out the This policy sets out certain disclosure Reviewing and monitoring the external issues relating to the supply chain disruption requirements by the external auditors to the auditors independence and objectivity that significantly affected our business Committee: restrictions on the employment and the effectiveness of the audit process during the financial year under review.
While of the external auditors former employees: Making recommendations to the Board this would ordinarily be an area of focus for and partner rotation.
During the year, the on the appointment or reappointment of both the Committee and the CR Committee, Committee reviewed the processes that the the Groups external auditors.
the directors agreed that the issue would be external auditors have in place to safeguard addressed and monitored by the Board.
their independence, and received a letter Meetings during the year Further information is set out on page 52. from the external auditors confirming that, The Committee met six times during the in their opinion, they remained independent.
year and the minutes of each meeting are I led a review of the Committees made available to all directors via the Board effectiveness which concluded that the The policy also sets out the circumstances portal.
Membership of the Committee and Committee continued to operate effectively in which the external auditors may be attendance during the year were as follows: and identified a number of topics for permitted to undertake non-audit services.
The Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of Number of the Committee have authority to approve the meetings Number of I look forward to meeting with shareholders Directors as at eligible to meetings provision of certain services up to 100,000 at the forthcoming AGM on 29 July 2015.
31 March 2015 attend attended or 250,000 respectively.
The Committee 1 Douglas Hurt 6 6 must approve any proposed non-audit Douglas Hurt services that exceed those thresholds.
Liz Airey 6 6 Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 Such proposals must be justified and, if Paul Forman 2 2 appropriate, be subject to tender.
In addition, Anne Minto 6 6 the policy specifies the services which are not permitted under any circumstances, 1 Succeeded Liz Airey as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 March 2015. such as the provision of remuneration advice 2 Appointed as director and a member of the Audit and internal audit outsourcing.
Committee with effect from 1 January 2015.
The Committee reviews the policy on an The Committee also met twice since the end annual basis and considers quarterly reports of the financial year and prior to the signing which set out the ongoing non-audit of this Annual Report.
services provided by the auditors and the fees incurred.
All the Committee members have extensive management experience in large international In June 2014, restrictions around the organisations.
It is a requirement of the Code provision of non-audit services by the that at least one Committee member has auditors and a 70% non-audit services fee recent and relevant financial experience.
cap came into effect at EU level.
These Two members meet this requirement: proposals are likely to come into force at Douglas Hurt was Finance Director at IMI plc UK level during 2016 and the Committee until 28February 2015 and is a member of will revise the policy to reflect the new the Institute of Chartered Accountants in requirements as they take effect.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 53 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued A breakdown of the fees paid to the external by the external auditors before concluding sensitivities.
The Committee was satisfied auditors in respect of auditand non-auditthat the judgments made in determining the that, other than in respect of the SPLENDA related work is included in Note 7.
The total valuation were appropriate.
This will continue Sucralose plant in Singapore, no impairment amount paid in respect of the Group audit, to be a key area of focus for the Committee charges, or reversal of impairments, were audit of subsidiaries and the half-year review going forward.
Papers on the Groups existing and was 2.0 million, and 0.2 million was paid in emerging litigation risks were considered.
Fees Implementation of Common IS IT system paid in respect of non-audit-related services As set out in the Chief Executives Review, External auditors therefore comprised 10% of the total fees the Group deployed its global IS IT platform PwC or its predecessor firms have been paid to PwC.
in the North American business and in the Companys auditors since 1989.
The Singapore during the year, following lead audit partner is rotated on a five-yearly Work undertaken during the year deployment in Europe in 2012.
The current lead audit partner, John The Committee maintains a calendar of Committee closely monitored plans to Waters, has been in place since the audit for items for consideration at each meeting.
mitigate the risk of breakdown in internal the year ended 31 March 2014.
Accordingly, In addition to the activities outlined in the financial controls during the transition and he is due to rotate off at the conclusion of statement from the Committee Chairman, the increased risk of inaccurate or the audit for the year ending 31 March 2018. during the year and up to the date of this incomplete migration of financial data.
Annual Report, the work undertaken by Following implementation, the Committee Following the conclusion of the audit for the the Committee fell under four main areas: year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee continues to monitor the controls in place financial reporting: oversight of the external as part of its ongoing oversight role.
conducted an internal review of the auditors: oversight of the internal audit effectiveness of the auditors the last function: and internal control and risk Taxation external review being in 2010.
the process, the Committee reviewed the The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and provision for potential direct auditors performance against criteria set at Financial reporting the start of the audit, together with feedback tax exposures with local tax authorities is At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee underpinned by a range of judgements.
from management at Group level and at reviewed accounting papers prepared by divisional level and considered the most The Committee reviewed the Groups management and determined, with the principles and processes for managing tax recent public report on the inspection of perspective of the external auditors, the PwC which was issued by the FRC in May risks during the year and reviewed the key appropriateness of key accounting policies, judgements made in estimating the Groups 2014.
The Committee concluded that the estimates and judgements.
The significant external audit process was operating tax charge along with the key disclosures, issues considered by the Committee in including a statement of tax principles, effectively and that PwC continued to relation to the financial statements for the provide effective and independent challenge included in the Annual Report set out on year ended 31 March 2015 are listed below.
The review identified a number of areas for process enhancements Committee was satisfied that the judgements Sucralose assets made in estimating the Groups tax charge which were implemented and incorporated As explained in the Chief Executives Review, into the criteria set for the audit in respect were reasonable, and that the disclosures the Group undertook a detailed analysis of in the Annual Report were appropriate.
of the year ended 31 March 2015. our SPLENDA Sucralose business to evaluate how to maximise returns in a Retirement obligations The Code states that FTSE 350 companies competitive market.
The Board agreed to The Group has significant retirement benefit should tender the provision of audit services re-focus the SPLENDA Sucralose business obligations in the UK and the US, including at least every ten years or explain their in two ways: by taking a rigorous valued unfunded retirement medical plans in the approach, if different.
The Competition & based approach to securing volume, and US and a number of judgements have to Markets Authority has published additional by materially lowering the manufacturing be made when calculating the fair value of proposals which came into effect in January cost base of the business by consolidating the Groups legacy retirement obligations.
These require FTSE 350 companies all production into the McIntosh, Alabama The Committee reviewed the assumptions to put their statutory audit engagement out facility and closing the facility in Singapore.
proposed by management reflecting advice to tender at least every ten years.
In addition The Committee reviewed the carrying value from the Groups external actuary which to this, the European Parliaments of the Groups SPLENDA Sucralose assets have driven an increase in the pension proposals, which include the requirement and determined that the full carrying value and healthcare net liability see Note 29 that audit firms of all EU companies listed of the Singapore facility should be written off and considered reports from the external on a regulated market are subject to in advance of the closure of the facility.
The auditors before agreeing that the retender after ten years and rotate off after Committee further determined, that based assumptions were reasonable.
20 years, came into force at EU level in June on the analysis of the business and future 2014.
The Committee continues to keep cost base, no impairment was required in Reported and adjusted earnings under review the legal and regulatory respect of the McIntosh assets.
The Committee considered managements developments in this regard.
review of reported and adjusted earnings, Commodity risk and satisfied itself that significant one-off The Group uses corn commodity contracts items of income and expense had been to manage and hedge its corn positions in correctly classified and that external the US.
The valuation of the corn book, which disclosure of these items was appropriate.
is underpinned by a number of judgements, has a material impact on the reported results The Committee also reviewed of the Group.
The Committee received managements annual goodwill impairment regular updates on the key commodity risks assessment paper, considering future and the risk management framework in place performance of the underlying divisions, to mitigate these risks.
In addition, the including discussion of the discount rates Committee considered the work performed used and forecast assumptions and 54 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
