Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance Highlights for 2015 During the year, we: In my capacity as Chairman of the Board, I am very pleased to again have this opportunity Fully met all of the requirements of to make a personal statement on the Companys approach to corporate governance.
the UK Corporate Governance Code Firstly, I would like to emphasise again that the Board continues to take corporate governance Fully met all of the revised very seriously and has been able to demonstrate this over many years with full compliance with the requirements set out in the September UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The requirements of the Code are summarised in 2014 Guidance on Risk Management, the table on page 50 where we have included a signpost directing you to the relevant page which Internal Control and Related Financial sets out in detail how the Company has complied with the various provisions.
To demonstrate and Business Reporting the Boards proactive approach to corporate governance, the Company has consistently sought Improved the functioning of the to comply with planned improvements to the Code, and with wider governance initiatives often in Board and its Committees through advance of their formal application to our reporting years.
The Board receives regular briefings and implementing the findings of the updates on corporate governance, both at Board and Committee meetings and, where necessary  Board in between such meetings, which all Directors continue to find very helpful.
Appraisal for 2014 Conducted a comprehensive This report on corporate governance aims to set out and explain in clear terms the governance  Board related processes and procedures in place at Taylor Wimpey which we believe are essential for Appraisal during 2015 delivery of the long term success of the Company.
It is these processes that ensure we comply Further developed the Companys with all applicable laws and regulations as well as, of course, meeting the requirements of succession and contingency our shareholders and their representative bodies, with whom we are always very pleased to planning across the Group engage and proactively did so again during 2015 and into 2016.
The Board strongly believes that good governance should be focused not only on how the Board itself operates effectively Implemented a number of new diversity and inclusivity initiatives but also, and very importantly, on the culture within which all of our businesses operate and and further progressed our conduct themselves on a day to day basis.
overall agenda As you will see from the Highlights for 2015 there were a number of significant developments Introduced the new Viability Statement in the area of corporate governance during the year, both externally and internally.
These were designed to give shareholders greater welcomed by the Board as they help to provide shareholders and all of our stakeholders assurance on the Companys longer increased assurance that the Company is being managed with their best interests firmly term prospects in mind.
Conducted an external appraisal The main changes which apply to reporting for 2015 cover a number of areas including: of the Companys Whistleblowing going concern: risk management and internal control: the introduction of a viability statement: process and procedures requiring remuneration to be designed to promote the long term success of companies: Conducted an external appraisal encouraging greater shareholder dialogue: the review of Director time commitments: of the Companys procedures for and further ways to improve the functioning of a Board through wider areas of diversity.
The dealing in the Companys shares Board fully supports each of these changes and improvements.
The plans to address the new requirements and necessary improvements are set out in greater detail in this Report and in the separate Reports of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees, which can be found on pages 58, 63 and 68.
Within these Reports, corporate governance developments likely to be implemented during 2016 are also discussed as appropriate.
In line with the Code, the Board conducts its annual evaluation exercise via an independent external facilitator once every three years and it was last carried out in this way in 2014.
Consequently the evaluation for 2015 was conducted internally and was done so via a comprehensive and updated process which involved all Directors.
The Board strongly believes that good governance should be focused not only on how the Board itself operates effectively but also, and very importantly, on the culture within which all of our businesses operate and conduct themselves on a day to day basis.
Kevin Beeston Chairman 46 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk The exercise considered the effectiveness of the Board, each Board In accordance with the Code, all Directors will again be subject Committee and each Director including the sufciency of their individual to election or re-election as appropriate by shareholders at the time commitment to the Board.
Annual General Meeting of the Company which is being held on 28 April 2016 AGM.
Biographical details of each Director can Consistent with previous exercises, the 2015 evaluation proved to be be found on pages 44 to 45 and also on page 152. very useful and whilst it was pleasing to note that the exercise concluded that the Board continues to function very well, inevitably there were some I believe that the new balance and composition of the Board, areas identied for improvement and other areas that would benefit from with myself as Chairman, three Executive Directors and five additional or continuing focus.
I can confirm that the Board has already Independent Non Executive Directors, will continue to provide focused on these areas and will continue to do so during 2016.
More the right blend of experience, expertise and challenge to ensure detail of the 2015 Board evaluation is set out on page 56. good governance so as to enable the Company to successfully implement its strategy.
This Report also seeks to explain what your Board of Directors actually does and describes how it is responsible for setting the culture and values of the Company, ensuring that the Company is run in the best Board committees interests of its shareholders as well as other stakeholders, and how it interacts with its shareholders in explaining the Companys strategic goals and performance against them.
From a governance perspective, it is not just a case of what is done but also, and just as importantly, how it is done therefore, we try and avoid a simple box ticking type approach, preferring our governance to be something that is properly embedded in our people, processes and decision making at all levels.
As a Board we regularly review health, safety and environmental performance: our business strategy: key risks: the market: operational matters: customer services: human resources: diversity: corporate responsibility: community engagement: our financial position and Chairman of Chairman of the Chairman of the performance: governance and legal matters: and shareholder-related the Nomination Audit Committee Remuneration matters including the make up of our share register.
This is done through Committee Rob Rowley Committee the consideration and discussion of regular reports submitted by the Kevin Beeston Baroness Ford Executive Directors and through other reports and presentations from of Cunninghame our senior management and external advisers.
The Board and individual Directors also undertake regular visits to our regional businesses and See pages 58-62 See pages 63-67 See pages 68-85 KPI KPI KPI their development sites, which has proved to be both very useful and for more information for more information for more information very effective.
Appointments and succession Board Committees There was one change to the composition of the Board during In compliance with the Code, the Board has three Committees, 2015, when we were very pleased to appoint Humphrey Singer as an the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Independent Non Executive Director on 9 December 2015.
Humphrey The Nomination Committee has been closely involved during is the Finance Director of Dixons Carphone plc and brings with him 2015 in a number of important actions and initiatives including: not just his financial acumen but a number of other skills and experience such as digital solutions and customer services, which will complement Reviewing the balance, diversity, independence and effectiveness the Boards existing skill set.
The Board considers that there is an of the Board.
effective balance with three Executive Directors and five Non Executive The appointment by the Board of an additional Independent Directors plus myself as Chairman, which ensures that each viewpoint Non Executive Director Humphrey Singer.
is properly represented around the Board table.
It also ensures that The carrying out of a detailed review of both succession and there is an effective balance of guidance, support and constructive contingency planning across the Group in order to achieve the challenge to the Executive.
Companys strategic aim of attracting, developing and retaining The appointment of Humphrey Singer followed a robust search, the best quality people at all levels of the Company, and to assessment and recruitment process, led by the Nomination Committee, improve our talent management.
the details of which are set out in more detail on page 59.
Reviewing strategy: establishing targets: and driving and monitoring progress in improving diversity generally throughout the Group.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations on appointments and succession planning to the Board, and more details can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 58 to 62.
47 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance continued These will all remain key priorities for further Board activities and priorities review and development during 2016, and in particular, succession planning, which is a topic Regular items at Board meetings cover the review of Committee activities: detailed which will continue to be regularly reviewed by updates on health, safety and environmental matters: reports from the Executive Directors both the Nomination Committee and the Board.
covering progress towards the Companys strategic objectives, its financial position and prospects, customer service, legal and corporate governance matters, and compliance Additional reporting on the Committees activities, updates: and shareholder matters including an update from the Companys stockbroker.
including more details of progress and plans in each of these areas, in line with the Code, is set Other topics considered during the year at Board meetings included the following on a out in the Nomination Committee Report on meeting by meeting basis: pages 58 to 62.
February 2015 During 2015 the Audit Committee completed Reviewed the draft 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and the Sustainability Report its schedule of work designed to ensure full Conducted the annual risk review compliance with the provisions of Section C Determined the amount of dividends for 2014 and any special dividend for 2015 to of the Code, in relation to financial reporting be proposed to shareholders and risk assessment related to the Companys Approved the draft Preliminary Announcement of the Companys full year results operations generally and to the preparation of Established improvement plans arising from the 2014 Board evaluation this Annual Report and Accounts and the various confirmations and assurances contained in it for shareholders.
Full details are set out in the Audit April 2015 Committee Report on pages 63 to 67.
In brief, Reviewed the draft Interim Management Statement to update shareholders on progress the work of the Committee included: for the year to date Reviewed arrangements for the 2015 Annual General Meeting The following of established processes, Reviewed scenario planning to assess the robustness of the Companys strategy so as to enable it to satisfy itself and Detailed review of customer service performance and improvement plans recommend to the Board that the information presented to shareholders in this Report and Accounts is, as a whole, a fair, balanced and May 2015 understandable assessment of our position Received a performance and strategic update on Land and Planning and prospects see page 67.
Detailed review of the political backdrop and its implications for the Companys strategy The establishment of robust new processes to give it the necessary assurance as to the June 2015 Companys financial position and prospects, Received a performance and strategic update from the new Major Developments business to enable the Board to make the new Viability Considered a report on the external review of the Companys share dealing and Statement, set out on page 35 see pages approval processes 63 and 67.
The ongoing review of the performance of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, before July 2015 recommending to the Board that a resolution Reviewed the draft half year results announcement be proposed for their re-appointment at the Determined the level of interim maintenance dividend and proposed special dividend for 2016 AGM see page 64.
Considered the half year risk review Detailed review of progress and plans in employee matters The review of risk management and internal Detailed review of the political backdrop and its implications for the Companys strategy controls so that the Company can closely monitor its exposure to risks which could impact upon the future prospects of the September 2015 Company and achievement of its strategic Received an update on the Companys strategic plan for 2016-25 objectives see page 66.
Received a detailed review of shareholder engagement and feedback from the Investor Relations team The Audit Committee has, during the year, Reviewed plans for the Board evaluation for 2015 continued to focus closely on these key areas, and will continue to do so throughout the course October 2015 of 2016 as necessary.
Received a presentation on performance and plans in the areas of health, safety, The Committee welcomed the new Guidance on the environment and sustainability Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Received a presentation on progress and plans in the area of human resources Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Discussion on progress and plans in the areas of diversity and inclusivity Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014.
The enhanced requirements are summarised below: December 2015 Detailed discussion on the Groups year end forecast The design and implementation of appropriate Reviewed the outcome of the Board evaluation for 2015 and agreed action points risk management and control systems and Detailed review of the year end risk management report their ongoing monitoring and review.
Detailed review of the Group Business Strategy 2016-2025 48 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk The level and nature of risk which the Company is willing to take More generally, within Taylor Wimpey, diversity and inclusivity has in pursuing its strategic objectives.
remained a key priority on the Boards agenda and this will continue to be the case during 2016 for all of our businesses and across all The appropriateness of the Companys culture and reward systems.
Our ambitions and objectives are set out in our Diversity The management and mitigation of Principal Risks.
Policy which canbe found on pages 60 to 61 and more information The Boards responsibility for external reporting in these areas.
can be found on pages 30 to 31 and on the Companys website: www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations corporateThe Committee believes that these enhanced requirements will further governance improve the overall governance framework in these areas.
More details are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 63 to 67.
Full details of our strategy and progress made to date towards the policy objectives are set out in detail in the Nomination Committee During 2015, the Remuneration Committee has continued its primary Report on pages 58 to 62. responsibility of ensuring that executive remuneration is geared to the enhancement of shareholder value and the delivery of the Board evaluation Companys strategy within a culture that monitors and limits risk-taking Pursuant to the Code, the Board carries out a formal and rigorous in accordance with pre-determined limits: and that the rewards for annual evaluation which is, as mentioned earlier, externally facilitated achieving or exceeding those targets are not excessive.
Full details at least once every three years.
are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 68 to 85.
Following the external facilitation of this process in 2014, the Key areas which the Committee focused on or considered during evaluation in 2015 was conducted internally via a rigorous and the year are set out below: comprehensive assessment of the performance of the Board, Carefully monitored Company performance in relation to the achievement its Committees and each individual Director.
of its strategic goals, so as to ensure potential and actual reward As part of the Board evaluation, the Board carefully considered available to Executive Directors and the wider executive team was the time commitments of all Directors and was satisfied, in line with closely linked to performance measures reecting those achievements.
the Code, that each Director was able to allocate sufficient time to Further aligned employees and shareholders interests by extending discharge his her responsibilities to the Company effectively including the participation in the Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan to not only attendance at Board and applicable Committee meetings members of the Companys regional Business Unit management where attendance was 100% during 2015 for all Directors but also teams and further extending shareholding target guidelines below for preparation time for meetings, visits to businesses including the Board level.
annual Board away day visit and other additional requirements that In conjunction with the Board, further increased participation in the may be required from time to time.
all-employee share plans andthe percentage of employee shareholders.
The annual evaluation is an important part of the Boardscorporate Due to the fact that there has been no change to the Remuneration governance framework and both the process andoutcome are Policy, accordingly there will again be only one resolution on always taken very seriously by the Board, each Committee and remuneration proposed at the 2016 AGM namely, the advisory by each individual Director.
vote on the way in which the Policy has been applied during 2015, Details of this years evaluation: its outcome: the actions planned by as set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 76. the Board during 2016 to address the issues raised: and the actions The terms of reference of each of the Board Committees, including taken during 2015 to address the issues raised in the last externallyan explanation of their role and the authority delegated to each by the facilitated evaluation conducted in 2014 and reported in last years Board, appear on the Companys website www.
co. uk Annual Report, are set out on page 56. corporate investor-relations corporate-governance KPI See page 56 for more information Diversity Diversity and inclusivity has continued to be a key item on the overall Conclusion UK governance agenda during 2015, particularly with the publication I believe that your Board remains effective and continues to work well.
of Lord Davies of Abersochs review of progress to date in encouraging a I am confident that the Board has the right balance of skills, expertise greater proportion of women onto boards.
This review sets an enhanced and professionalism to continue to deliver strong governance whilst target for the proportion of women on each FTSE 350 companys board allowing the Executive Directors to implement and deliver the to increase from the current 25% target to 33% by 2020.
The Board very strategy set out on pages 16 to 17 within a culture of effective risk much welcomes this initiative and the increased target which is designed management and appropriate levels of reward.
I am pleased with to give greater impetus to the progress of enhanced gender diversity on the Boards activity with regard to corporate governance, but we PLC boards.
continually look for ways to learn and improve.
As ever, I very much Although the percentage of women on the Board of Taylor Wimpey plc look forward to meeting with shareholders at the AGM on 28 April reduced during the year from 25% to 22% following the appointment 2016 and, as always, along with all of your Directors who will all be of Humphrey Singer in December 2015, improvements were however present at the AGM, remain available to answer or respond to your seen in the proportion of women on the Group Management Team questions, concerns and suggestions at any time.
GMT which increased to 30% during the year from 25% in 2014.
The number of women on the Board will be kept under regular review in line with the recommendations made by Lord Davies.
Kevin Beeston Chairman 49 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance continued Adherence to the Code Section C: Accountability The Main Principles of the Code and guidance on where to find The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable details in these reports on how the Company has complied with assessment of the companys position and prospects it, are set out below: see page 67.
Section A: Leadership The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic Every company should be headed by an effective board objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management which is collectively responsible for the long term success and internal control systems see page 66. of the company see page 51.
The board should establish formal and transparent There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the arrangements for considering how they should apply the head of the company between the running of the board and corporate reporting, risk management and internal control the executive responsibility for the running of the companys principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers with the companys auditors see pages 64 to 65. of decision see page 53.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board Section D: Remuneration and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role Executive directors remuneration should be designed see page 51. to promote the long term success of the company.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non executive directors should constructively challenge stretching and rigorously applied see page 77. and help develop proposals on strategy see page 51.
There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing Section B: Effectiveness the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director The board and its committees should have the appropriate should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge see page 68. of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively see page 52.
Section E: Relations with shareholders There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue see page 59. with shareholders takes place see page 57.
All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation see page 57. see pages 49 and 53.
All directors should receive induction on joining the board and Statement of compliance should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company see page 54. complied with all the provisions of the Code: the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules The board should be supplied in a timely manner with sub-chapters 7.1 and 7.2 which set out certain mandatory information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable disclosure requirements: the FCAs Listing Rules 9.8.
7R it to discharge its duties see page 54. and 9.8.
7AR which include the comply or explain requirement: The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual and the BIS Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations and evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees Narrative Reporting Regulations.
These regulations are publicly and individual directors see page 56. available at: All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular The Code can be found at www.
uk intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance see page 53.
The FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well as Listing Rules can be found at www.
uk The BIS Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations and Narrative Reporting Regulations can be found at www.
uk The FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting can be found at www.
