STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Under the transitional provisions attached to Composition and constitution the EU rules, the Group would be required The Nominations Committee comprises Nominations to change auditors for the next audit the Chairman of the Company, the Chief appointment after 17 June 2020.
As a result, Executive and all the non-executive the final year that PwC could be appointed Committee Report directors.
It ensures that the balance of would be the year ending 31 March 2020 skills and experience of the Board remains Dear shareholder and an audit tender to appoint new external appropriate for the needs of the Group.
This year, the Committee continued to focus auditors would need to take place in time for The Committees terms of reference, which on both Board succession plans and the Groups Annual General Meeting in 2020 are reviewed annually, are available on the executive succession planning and the at the latest.
outcomes are set out in this report.
The Committee discussed the timing of a Main responsibilities of the Committee I led the review of the Committees tender on a regular basis during the financial These include: effectiveness.
The review concluded that the year ended 31 March 2015.
In light of the Reviewing the size and composition of the Committee was functioning effectively and change in Chief Financial Officer and the Board, including succession planning, and recommended some process changes that ongoing embedding of the global IS IT the leadership needs of the Group generally we have already implemented.
system, the Committee agreed to revisit Recommending candidates for timing of the tender during the year ending appointment as executive and nonLooking ahead, this year, we plan to focus 31 March 2016.
The Committee has executive directors and as Company in particular on talent management and recommended to the Board that PwC Secretary, taking into account the balance succession planning for critical roles outside continue to act as auditors to the Group.
of the Board and the required blend of the Board and Group Executive Committee PwC has indicated its willingness to skills and experience, bearing in mind the to ensure that our talent pipeline is continue in office: a resolution that PwC be need for diversity appropriately resourced and supported.
reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Making recommendations on the process for the appointment of the Chairman of Sir Peter Gershon Internal audit function the Board Chairman of the The Committee reviewed the remit, Reviewing annually the performance of Nominations Committee organisation, annual plan and resources each member of the Group Executive of the internal audit function and concluded Committee and reporting on that review that the function continued to operate to the Remuneration Committee.
The last external review was undertaken in November 2013.
Meetings during the year The Committee met five times during the Internal control and risk management year.
Membership of the Committee and The Committee continued to receive and attendance during the year were as follows: consider regular reports from management and the VP, Group Audit and Assurance Number of on the effectiveness of the Groups risk meetings Number of Directors as at eligible to meetings management system.
The reports from 31 March 2015 attend attended the latter included the findings from reviews 1 Sir Peter Gershon 5 5 of internal financial controls and actions to address any weaknesses in those controls.
Javed Ahmed 5 5 The Committee also reviewed the operation Liz Airey 5 5 of the independent confidential reporting line.
William Camp 5 5 2 Paul Forman 1 1 Throughout the year, the Committee Douglas Hurt 5 5 focused in particular on the impact of the Virginia Kamsky 5 5 implementation of the new IS IT system Anne Minto 5 5 and associated changes to the control Dr Ajai Puri 5 5 environment, together with any potential impact on financial reporting processes.
Former directors 3 It also reviewed controls to mitigate fraud Robert Walker 4 4 risk and the Group assurance map outlining 1 Committee Chairman.
the key risks and associated assurance 2 Joined the Board on 1 January 2015. processes.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the output from the annual review 3 Ceased to be a director on 31 December 2014. of the effectiveness of internal financial reporting controls and then reported to The Committee has also met once since the end of the financial year and prior to the Board on that review.
the signing of this Annual Report.
Work undertaken during the year During the year and up to the date of this Annual Report, in addition to the work set out in the Chairmans letter above, the work undertaken by the Nominations Committee included: Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 55
