DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Operational decision making, operational performance and the formulation of strategic proposals to the Board are controlled STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee meets During the period the Company was subject to the UK Corporate regularly throughout the year.
Governance Code dated September 2012 the Code.
The To enable the Board to function effectively and Code was issued by the Financial Reporting Council and is the directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely available for review on the Financial Reporting Councils website access is provided to all relevant information.
The Board confirms that the Company has procedure for directors to take independent professional advice, complied with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the if necessary, at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the year, except in respect of Code Provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 audit access every director has to the Company Secretary.
and remuneration committees to have at least three independent The Company maintains an appropriate level of non-executive directors.
director and officer liability insurance cover in place and, through the Articles of Association and directors terms of appointment, STATEMENT ABOUT APPLYING THE MAIN PRINCIPLES has agreed to indemnify the directors against certain liabilities OF THE CODE to third parties and costs and expenses incurred as a result of The Company has applied the Main Principles set out in the holding office as a director.
Save for such indemnity provisions in Code.
The UK Corporate Governance Code dated September the Companys Articles of Association and in the directors terms 2014 which will apply to the Company during its next financial of appointment, there are no qualifying third party indemnity year ending 30 January 2016 is being reviewed by the Board and provisions in force.
the Company will report on its compliance in the next financial The Code requires that the Board provides a fair, year.
Further explanation of how the Main Principles have been balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys applied is set out in this section of the Directors Report and, position and prospects in its external reporting.
The directors in connection with directors remuneration, in the Directors were responsible for the preparation and approval of the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 48.
Report and Accounts and consider them, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and believe that this THE BOARD provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Chief Executive, The Chief Operating Officer and three During the period, the Board undertook an informal independent non-executive directors.
Biographies of these evaluation of its own performance, its committees performance directors appear on page 32.
The Board is of the view that its and the performance of its directors, with continuing assessment current membership provides an appropriate balance of skills, undertaken throughout the year in review.
Informal evaluations experience, independence and knowledge, which enables it to and assessments conducted by the Board and its committees discharge its responsibilities effectively.
covered a range of issues around board and committee The Board considers non-executive directors Ronald membership, board and committee roles and responsibilities Stewart, Anne Sheinfield and Andrew Jennings to be independent and board and committee processes.
Pursuant to Code Provision for the purposes of the Code.
The Board also considers Chairman B.
6.2, which provides that the evaluation board of FTSE David Bernstein to be independent notwithstanding that, prior 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every to his appointment as Chairman in January 2013, he had served three years, the Board has instructed an independent external on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his first adviser to evaluate the Board during the financial year ending election and therefore did not satisfy the criteria under Provision 30 January 2016.
The Board considers David Bernstein to be independent in character and judgement, taking into account his extensive experience, and to be a valuable member of the Board.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It considers all issues relating to the strategy, direction and future development of the Group.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision that is regularly updated.
The requirement for Board approval on these matters is understood and communicated widely throughout the Group.
The nonexecutive directors meet with the Chairman separately during the year.
In addition, the non-executive directors meet without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
18 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE The table below details the number of Board and committee meetings held during the year ended 31 January 2015 and the attendance record of each director.
BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION MEETINGS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD 10 3 3 1 Raymond S Kelvin 8 n a n a n a Lindsay D Page 10 n a n a n a David Bernstein 10 3 3 1 Anne Sheinfield 10 n a 3 1 Ronald Stewart 10 3 3 1 Andrew Jennings 10 3 3 n a Meeting was held on 8 July 2014 before Andrew Jennings was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 30 September 2014.
AUDIT COMMITTEE STATEMENT During the period, Ronald Stewart was Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee.
The other Committee members were David Bernstein and, following his appointment to the Committee on 14 March 2014, Andrew Jennings.
Provision C. 3.1. of the Code provides that the Committee should comprise of at least three independent non-executive directors, and that the Chairman should not be a member of the Committee.
The Board recognises that the Company has not been compliant with Provision C. 3.1 of the Code during the year but considers David Bernstein, notwithstanding his appointment as Chairman, to be a valuable member of the Committee because of his recent and extensive relevant financial experience.
A summary of the key matters considered by the Committee during the year are set out below: AGENDA ITEMS MARCH JULY SEPTEMBER FULL YEAR REPORT INTERIM REPORT KPMG Audit Committee paper - KPMG Management Letter - - Group Audit Plan - - INTERNAL AUDIT Findings of internal audit reviews - - Key tax risks and approach Risk management - POLICIES Impairment policy review - - Terms of reference of the Committee - - Whistle blowing - - Non-audit services provided by KPMG - - Employment of former KPMG staff - - Non-audit spend - - OTHER MATTERS Materiality - - Resourcing Succession planning - - Cyber Risk Review - - Post investment appraisal stores - - The main areas of judgement and estimation are set out in the accounting policies on pages 64 to 68.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 19 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE The Committee received, reviewed and challenged reports from 3 Misstatements management and the external auditors setting out the significant Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not issues in relation to the 2015 Financial Statements which related aware of any material misstatements or immaterial misstatements to the carrying value of inventory and the carrying value of retail made intentionally to achieve a particular presentation.
auditors reported to the Committee the misstatements that These issues were discussed and challenged with they had found in the course of their work and no material management during the year.
They were also discussed with amounts remain unadjusted.
The Committee confirms that it is the auditors at the time the Committee reviewed and agreed the satisfied that the auditors have fulfilled their responsibilities with auditors group audit plan, when the auditors reviewed the half diligence and professional scepticism.
year interim financial statements in October 2014, and also at the After reviewing and challenging the presentations conclusion of the audit of the 2015 Financial Statements.
and reports from management and consulting where necessary with the auditors, the Committee is satisfied that the financial 1 Carrying value of inventory statements appropriately address the critical judgements and Inventory is carried in the financial statements at the lower of cost key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and the and net realisable value.
The fashion industry can be extremely disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant volatile with consumer demand changing significantly based on assumptions used for determining the value of assets and current trends.
As a result there is a risk that the cost of inventory liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and exceeds its net realisable value.
Management confirmed to the Committee that there have been no significant changes to the approach used to 4 Future IFRS developments estimate inventory provisions from the prior year.
The auditors The Committee has discussed future accounting explained to the Committee the work they had conducted during developments likely to affect the presentation of the Groups the year.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditors reported Financial Statements.
no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole: and in our view this supports the appropriateness of our methodology.
2 Carrying value of retail fixed assets The Group has invested a significant amount of capital outside the UK in its retail store portfolio.
Given the relative immaturity of the brand outside the UK, the payback period is typically longer and it is not uncommon for new stores to make losses in their starting phase.
The Committee challenged management on the evidence on which they based their assessment as to when an indicator exists for loss making stores and needs to be formally tested.
This included an assessment of performance of retail stores to the original business case, comparing relative performance of stores within each region and confirming that managements assessment was in line with the Committees understanding of the maturity of the brand in each location.
The auditors explained to the Committee the work they had conducted during the year.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditors reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole, and in our view this supports the appropriateness of our methodology.
20 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 21 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE 22 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL AUDIT the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: The Committee oversees the Companys relationship with the the external auditors fee proposal: external auditors and makes recommendations to the Board the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and in relation to their appointment, re-appointment and removal their resolution: and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
key accounting and audit judgements: The Board and Committee also review the independence of the the level of errors identified during the audit: and external auditors and consider the engagement of the external recommendations made by the external auditors in their auditors to supply non-audit services.
management letters and the adequacy of managements The Company has adopted a formal policy on the response.
supply of non-audit services by the external auditors.
They may only provide such services on condition that such advice does not Consideration is also given by the Committee to the need to conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
include the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors from The Committee Chairmans pre-approval is required before the the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits The Committee considers the reappointment of the set out by that policy and the aggregate spend is also reviewed external auditors each year and assesses their independence on an by the Committee on an annual basis.
Details of the auditors ongoing basis.
KPMG has been the Companys external auditors remuneration for audit and non-audit fees are disclosed in note 3 since 2001, with a competitive audit tender process carried out in to the Financial Statements.
The Committee will next tender the position for external The Committee recognises that the independence of auditor in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the dated September 2014. assurance that it provides.
The Committee monitors any nonaudit work that is undertaken by the external auditors to ensure WHISTLEBLOWING that their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
The Committee is responsible for the review of the Companys During the period audit fees paid to KPMG LLP were 0.2m procedures for responding to the allegations of whistleblowers while non-audit fees totalled 0.7m.
Of this 0.6m related to and the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise forensic services on a one-off project that the committee believed concerns about possible financial reporting irregularities.
that KPMG was best placed to carry out.
The Committee has formally reviewed the NOMINATION COMMITTEE independence of the auditors during the review year.
KPMG During the year the Nomination Committee the Committee LLP has provided a letter to the Committee confirming that it was chaired by David Bernstein and its other members were remains independent within the meaning of the regulations on Ronald Stewart, Anne Sheinfield and Andrew Jennings who this matter and in accordance with professional standards.
was appointed as a member of the Committee on 30 September 2014.
The composition of the Committee during the year To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the complied with Provision B.
Committee reviewed: The Committee is responsible for nominating the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and candidates for appointment to the Board.
On 8 July 2014 Lindsay variations from it: Page was appointed as Chief Operating Officer of the Group, in reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the addition to his role as Group Finance Director.
course of the audit: All non-executive directors are advised of the time feedback from the businesses evaluating the performance of commitment considered necessary to enable them to fulfill their each assigned audit team: and responsibilities prior to appointment.
a report from the Audit Quality Review Team of the The terms of reference for the Committee are Financial Reporting Council on Materiality.
available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee holds meetings with the external auditors before APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD each Committee meeting to review key issues within their sphere The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the of interest and responsibility.
To fulfil its responsibility for directors for the time being to retire, and each Director to retire oversight of the external audit process, the Committee reviewed: from office at least once every three years.
However, in line with the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope Provision B.
7.1 of the Code, the Board has determined that all of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement directors must retire and stand for re-election on an annual basis.
letter for the forthcoming year: Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 23 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE DIVERSITY INTERNAL CONTROL We strongly support the principle of boardroom diversity, of The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of which gender is one element.
Anne Sheinfield has been on the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, Board since June 2010 and the Board is very pleased to benefit such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the from her valuable contribution.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide Boardroom diversity, including gender, is an only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material important consideration when assessing a candidates ability to misstatement or loss.
contribute to, and complement the abilities of, a balanced Board.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process Our Board appointments will always be made on for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks merit against objective criteria, and this will continue to be the faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under priority rather than aiming to achieve an externally prescribed review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and diversity target.
Accounts, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board As noted in the People report on page 30-31, the and accords with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors continued expansion of the Company means that Ted Bakers on the Code the Turnbull Guidance.
workforce is becoming increasingly more diverse.
The Company The Risk Committee includes the Chief Operating will continue to support the development and progression of all Officer and various subsidiary directors and heads of department.
employees, with the aim of maintaining and achieving diversity It reviews, on a twice yearly basis, the risk management and throughout all levels of the organisation.
control process and considers: the authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS in the identification, assessment and management of The Group attaches considerable importance to the significant risks faced by the Group: effectiveness of its communication with its shareholders.
The the response to the significant risks which have been full report and accounts are sent to all shareholders and further identified by management and others: copies are distributed to others with potential interest in the the maintenance of a controlled environment directed Groups performance.
towards the proper management of risk: and The directors seek to build on a mutual the annual reporting procedures.
understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making general presentations Additionally, the Risk Committee keeps abreast of all after the interim and preliminary results: meeting shareholders changes made to the systems and follows up on areas that require to discuss long-term issues and gather feedback: and improvement.
It reports to the Board at twice yearly intervals or communicating regularly throughout the year.
All shareholders more frequently should the need arise.
have access to these presentations, as well as to the Annual Report The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the and Accounts and to other information about the Company, system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and through the website at www.
They may also updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which they risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by have the opportunity to ask questions.
which these risks are managed.
Management is responsible for Non-executive directors are kept informed of the the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to views of shareholders by the executive directors and are provided their areas of the business together with the design and operation with independent feedback from investor meetings.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption The Companys Articles of Association take account of certain in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to directors regulatory requirements.
These provisions permit the Board to The Group has an independent internal audit consider, and if thought fit, to authorise situations where a function whose findings are regularly reviewed by the Executive director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, Committee and the Board.
The Audit Committee monitors and with the interests of the Company.
The Board has adopted reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
procedures for the approval of such conflicts.
The Boards powers Management reports regularly on its review of to authorise conflicts are operating effectively and the procedures risks and how they are managed to its Risk Committee, whose are being followed.
main role is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the business and the system of control necessary to manage such risks, and to present their findings to the Board.
24 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 25 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE The Chief Executive reports to the Board on behalf of the THE BRIBERY ACT 2010 Executive Committee on significant changes in the business and The Board continues to proactively review the Groups procedures the external environment which affects significant risks.
to ensure they are sufficiently robust to prevent corruption.
The Chief Operating Officer provides the Board with monthly financial information which includes key performance indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
26 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 27
