NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION The Nomination Committee comprises Michael Pavia Chairman of the Committee, Julian Schild and Charles Wigoder and therefore has a majority of independent non-executive directors in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provision B.
The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new non-executive and executive directors, including making recommendations as to the composition of the Board generally and the balance between executive and non-executive directors: giving consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives: reviewing on an annual basis the time required from non-executive directors and assessing whether the non-executive directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties: reviewing the re-election by shareholders of directors under the annual re-election provisions of the Code: and evaluating any matters relating to the continuation in office of any director including the suspension or termination of service of an executive director.
THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 Recruitment of new Chief Financial Officer During the year Chris Houghton, the Companys former Finance Director, resigned from the Board and the Committee was therefore instructed to seek a replacement.
The Committee commissioned executive search consultants Korn Ferry in London to present a shortlist of potential candidates.
Korn Ferry was instructed to identify candidates from as wide a pool as possible with an emphasis on ensuring that the Companys approach to recruitment, namely that candidates from a wide range of backgrounds should be considered and that due regard be given to the benefits of diversity on the Board, was adhered to.
The key criteria against which the candidates were selected are set out below: strategic vision and commercial awareness: intellectual ability: previous financial experience within large companies: and previous experience of leading finance functions through periods of growth.
The recruitment process principally comprised an initial selection round conducted by Korn Ferry.
A small number of candidates were then interviewed by the members of the Committee and the Chief Executive.
The Committee assessed the results of the interviews and recommended to the Board that the strongest candidate, Mr Nick Schoenfeld, be appointed as Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Schoenfeld was, since 2006, Group Finance Director of Hanover Acceptances, a substantial diversified private company with holdings in the food manufacturing, real estate, and agribusiness sectors.
He was previously employed at Kingfisher plc, where he was responsible for the groups financial planning and 44 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements analysis functions.
Prior to this, he held senior strategic and development roles within Castorama and the Walt Disney Company, having started his career as a management consultant at the Boston Consulting Group.
Mr Schoenfeld also has an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
Other activities The Committee met informally on a number of occasions during the year and Committee matters were also discussed formally as part of certain full Board meetings.
Consistent with the requirement of the Code to ensure a progressive refreshing of the Board, the Committee has been implementing its plan for independent non-executive director succession in the near future, to reflect the long service of both Michael Pavia and Melvin Lawson since their appointment to the Board in late 2006.
The Committee is in the process of identifying potential non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board in the short term.
Other discussions concerning Committee matters during the year principally related to the appropriateness of the composition of the Board in the light of the Companys existing operations and medium-term strategic objectives, and succession planning for directors and senior management.
Aside from the position in relation to independent non-executive directors set out above, no other changes to the Board were deemed necessary during the year.
The Committees position in relation to diversity and the Code requirement to set out any measurable objectives that exist in this regard is included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40 of this document.
Michael Pavia Chairman of the Nomination Committee On behalf of the Board 22 June 2015 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 45
