AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION The Audit Committee the Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Michael Pavia Chairman of the Committee, Julian Schild and Melvin Lawson in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provision C. 3.1.
Michael Pavia is also identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Attendance at Committee meetings during the current year by Committee members is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 38 of this document.
In accordance with best practice, the Committee has the opportunity, as required, to meet with the external auditor of the Company without the presence of any executive directors and has done so during the current year.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: reviewing the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and the direction of the external auditor to investigate any matters of particular concern: assessing the effectiveness of the Companys external auditor, including considering the scope and results of the annual audit: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and assessing any potential impact on objectivity resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance: and reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and other internal control and risk management processes.
The senior management team and executive directors periodically review the effectiveness of key internal control and risk management processes within the Company and report any changes in such activities to the Audit Committee and the external auditor for consideration.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 External Auditor During the year, whilst the Committee remained satisfied with the performance of the Companys existing auditor BDO LLP BDO, it was decided to put the external audit contract out to tender.
BDO had been the Companys auditor since March 2013 following its merger with PKF UK LLP PKF who had been in place as the Companys auditor since its inception in 1996.
The Committees decision to conduct a tender was principally driven by the awareness that certain shareholders did not view the merger of PKF and BDO as constituting a change of auditor which would absolve the Company from the requirement to tender its external audit contract.
In addition, the Committee was increasingly mindful of the regulatory focus on mandatory auditor rotation following the recent EU Audit Directive and specifically on the existing requirements for publicly listed 46 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements companies to put their audit contracts out for tender more regularly.
In particular the Committee noted the requirement in the Corporate Governance Code and the Competition and Markets Authority Order, for FTSE 350 companies to tender their external audit contract at least every ten years.
As such, the Committee recommended to the Board that the external audit contract be put out to tender during the year.
The tender process was conducted during January and concluded in mid February.
A total of five audit firms, including the existing auditor BDO, were invited to submit a formal document outlining their proposed approach to the audit of the Company.
The five firms were principally selected based on their credentials in the markets within which the Company operates and their experience of auditing large publicly listed companies.
The five firms were asked to submit a structured written proposal to the Committee covering the following areas: detailed proposed audit plan and timeline: proposed approach to communication with the Finance Team and Audit Committee: critique of the Companys prior year Annual Report: analysis of any key specific audit risks identified: a detailed auditor transition plan: credentials in the markets within which the Company operates: client references in relation to the proposed lead audit partner: and proposed audit fees.
The five firms were also invited to spend time with the executive directors of the Company in order to further their understanding of the business and they were also granted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This enabled the firms to tailor fully their proposals to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the written proposals received and selected three firms to present formally to the full Board of the Company.
The three firms were principally selected based on the quality of their written proposals submitted and the demonstration therein of a good initial understanding of the Companys operations and a detailed understanding of the markets within which it operates.
All three prospective audit firms invited to present performed well and demonstrated a deep understanding of the Companys markets and the audit approach required for large publicly listed companies.
The high quality of all three pitches presented the Committee with a difficult decision.
However, after a thorough analysis of the three firms, the Committee decided to recommend to the Board the appointment of KPMG LLP KPMG as auditor of the Company.
The Committee determined that the key differentiating factor in favour of KPMG was the highly tailored nature of their presentation and in particular the significant level of detailed practical specification in the proposed audit plan.
Other activities The Committees other main activities during the year included a review of the financial statements involving a detailed evaluation of the significant accounting issues therein.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 47 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The actions taken by the Committee in regard to these issues are described in the table below.
ISSUE ACTION TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE Operational accuracy of billing system Review of internal analysis and external auditor procedures.
Monitoring of regulator communications Ofgem, BABT and monthly monitoring of detailed call centre statistics which would indicate significant billing issues.
Revenue recognition and associated unbilled energy Review of key assumptions underlying the recoverability revenues of unbilled energy revenues based on internal analysis.
Review of the adjustments required as a result of the restatement detailed in Note 22 of the financial statements.
Valuation of intangible assets Review of key assumptions underlying the value and recoverability of the intangible asset relating to the new energy supply agreements entered into with Npower in December 2013.
Risk of management override of internal controls Review of significant accounting estimates and judgements in relation mainly to receivables balances.
Also, in conjunction with the Companys external auditor, the Audit Committee has considered, amongst other matters, compliance with the provisions of the Code and accounting developments, the Companys financial control environment and its risk management and control processes.
As part of this process the Audit Committee has also considered the need for any special projects or internal investigations and concluded that no such additional projects or investigations have been required.
In accordance with the Code provision C. 3.5, the Audit Committee has also considered the need for an internal audit function at the Company.
In the light of the simplicity of the Group structure, its single country focus, its relatively straightforward financial model, the internal controls in place and the fact that management and the Board conduct regular financial reviews, the Committee has recommended to the Board that an internal audit function is not currently appropriate for the business.
This decision will be kept under regular review and where appropriate extended assurance will also be sought in specific areas of concern.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Companys half year and annual financial statements.
The Committee advised the Board that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole provide a fair, balanced and understandable picture of the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS The Companys new external auditor, KPMG, presented a detailed audit report to the Audit Committee following a review of the annual financial statements.
Having regard to its review of the work performed by the external auditor during the year and its approach to key audit issues, the Audit Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of KPMG in its first year as external auditor.
48 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In reaching this conclusion, the Committee assessed: the approach of the audit team to the transition from BDO: the efficiency with which the audit team was able to understand the Company and its systems and processes: the experience and expertise of the audit team: the scope and eventual fulfilment of the detailed audit plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the audit team in their handling of key accounting and audit judgements: and the nature and quality of the content of the external auditors report.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders at the AGM, the reappointment of KPMG as the Companys external auditor for the coming year.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE In order to guard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditor being compromised, the provision of any significant additional services aside from audit and tax compliance remains subject to the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee would normally be likely to prohibit the provision of the following types of non-audit related work by the Companys external auditor: book-keeping and work relating to the preparation of accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: financial information system design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services in respect of material assets: internal auditing: investment advice or corporate broking: and any other work where mutual interests exist that could compromise the independence of the external auditor.
It is also currently envisaged that in accordance with best practice, tax compliance advice will not be awarded to the external auditor.
REPORTING OF STAFF CONCERNS The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Michael Pavia, is the primary point of contact for staff of the Company to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or otherwise.
All employees have been notified of this arrangement on the Companys intranet website which sets out Michael Pavias contact details Code provision C. 3.4.
No such matters were raised by employees during the current year.
Michael Pavia Chairman of the Audit Committee On behalf of the Board 22 June 2015 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 49
