Corporate governance report continued Our corporate governance framework Tesco PLC Board Remuneration Audit Corporate Responsibility Nominations Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Meets as required The work of the Board is supported by five key Committees: the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nominations, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees.
The role of the Disclosure Committee includes to assist and inform the Board in making decisions concerning the identification of inside information and make recommendations about how and when the Company should disclose the information in accordance with the Companys Disclosure Policy.
The Committee meets as necessary to consider all relevant matters relating to inside information.
It will in particular meet in advance of the release of all trading statements and other announcements of inside information to ensure that they are true, accurate and complete, including a review of the preliminary results announcement and the Annual Report and Financial Statements to consider if they are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee met nine times during the year.
The Disclosure Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
The Group Chief Financial Officer CFO chairs the meetings.
Other members of the Committee consist of relevant senior management and Group Executive Committee members.
Further details on the other Board Committees can be found on page 37 Audit : page 40 Corporate Responsibility : page 41 Nominations : and page 46 Remuneration.
These Committees report back to the Board after each meeting.
The Board delegates to the Group Chief Executive CEO the responsibility for formulating and, after approval, implementing the Groups strategic plan and for management of the day-to-day operations of the Group.
The Group Executive Committee, which the CEO chairs, supports the CEO in carrying out his role.
The Group Executive Committee comprises the CEO and CFO and a number of senior executives, details are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Corporate governance highlights Board focus during the year During the year the Board spent its time considering a wide range of matters.
These included: performance of key businesses and functions in the Group: budgets and long term plans for the Group: financial statements and announcements: cash flow, financing and dividend: corporate and social responsibility: pensions: health and safety: shareholder feedback and reports from brokers and analysts: risk management and controls in the Group: delegated authorities: and the commercial income investigation.
The Board also had one offsite meeting dedicated to strategy.
In addition to its regular programme of activities the Board made a number of strategic decisions in the year, which included: accelerating strategy to improve competitiveness: cutting interim dividend by 75%: replacing senior management: restructuring of central overheads, simplification of store management structures and the closure of 43 unprofitable stores: significant revision of the store building programme: reduced capital expenditure budget in 2015 16 to 1 billion: disposal of Tesco Broadband and Blinkbox: and not to a pay a final dividend in 2014 15.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements and consider that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Changes to the Board and Board Committees The Board was pleased to announce the appointment of a new Chairman, two new Executive Directors and three new Non-executive Directors, who bring a wealth of skills and experience to the Board which are detailed in their biographies on pages 28 to 29.
The exact number of Directors may rise or fall in line with the normal process of Board development and succession planning.
To ensure appropriate balance and succession potential in the Boards Committees a number of changes have been made.
Changes to the Board and Board Committees are detailed in the following table.
34 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
