THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD GOVERNANCE CODE The Board is specifically responsible for: This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the extent to guiding the Groups strategic aims, leading to its approval of which the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the theGroups strategy and its budgetary and business plans: year to 30 September 2015.
Throughout the year the Company fully approval of significant investments and capital expenditure: complied with the provisions of the Code, except for a period between 1 October 2014 and 31 December 2014, in respect of Provision B.
3.3, in approval of annual, half-year, and quarterly results relation to Executive Directors taking on more than one non-executive announcements, accounting policies and, subject to directorship in a FTSE 100 company the Code can be read in full at Shareholder approval, the appointment and remuneration www.
oftheexternal auditors: Whist serving as Chief Executive Officer, Harriet Green also served approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment ofinterim as a Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc and Emerson Electric and the recommendation of final dividends: Co.
Both roles were held prior to Harriets appointment as CEO.
On her changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of appointment, the Board agreed that she should continue to serve any securities: on both boards, being satisfied that she would devote sufficient time and energy to the Company and that being a Non-Executive establishing and maintaining the Groups risk appetite, system Director was of mutual benefit to both Harriet and the Company.
ofinternal control, governance and approval authorities: Following Harriets departure from the Board on 31 December 2014, monitoring executive performance and succession planning: and theCompany is now compliant in respect of this provision.
reviewing standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, THE GROUPS BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
The Groups business model and strategy are summarised on pages 19 to 33 of the Strategic report.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group and for ensuring that there is a framework of effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
At each Board meeting, the CEO presents a comprehensive update on the transformation, strategy and business issues across the Group and the CFO presents a detailed analysis of the financial performance, both at Group and segment level.
Senior executives below Board level attend relevant parts of Board and Committee meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
This gives the Board access to a broader group of executives and helps the Directors make assessments of the Groups succession plans.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 74 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR The Board, its Committees and Management continued to focus on delivering Shepherd whilst staying at a hotel booked through Thomas Cook in2006.
the Companys strategy for the next stage of transformation, which included Inresponse to the issues raised, the Board oversaw the appointment of the development of the New Operating Model.
In pursuit of the Companys Justin King to conduct an independent review of the Groups customer health, strategic goals, the Board considered and approved entering into the strategic safety, welfare and crisis management practices.
The Board also received partnership with Fosun and the re-financing of the Companys banking facilities anumber ofreports and reviews on the topics of in-resort Health and Safety to create a more efficient capital structure.
The Board also spent time looking andcustomer complaints.
As detailed on page 76, the Board held one of its meetings in Stockholm, The Board held a number of unscheduled meetings where it considered matters themain offices of the Northern Europe business and another in Majorca, in respect of the inquest and reaction to the tragic deaths of Bobbyand Christi whichis a key destination for our customers.
In addition to the matters described above, the Board also reviewed the following matters: The composition of the Board Progress and developments in respect The Groups financial plan, financial and succession planning of the transformation andstrategy performance andreporting Risk and mitigation matters, including a review The revised organisational structure and delegation Key corporate governance developments of the Boards risk appetite of authority The effectiveness of the Board and Results of our employee engagement survey Feedback from institutional investors its Committees BOARD MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE CEOdecided should be considered by the Board or relevant Committee prior to the next scheduled meeting.
The table below shows the attendance record of the individual Directors at scheduled Board meetings and relevant Committee The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director have provided meetings.
In addition to the scheduled meetings set out below, the assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their Directors also attended several unscheduled Board and Committee respective roles and can dedicate sufficient time to meet what meetings, in respect of business matters that the Chairman and isexpected of them.
Health, Safety& Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Current Directors Frank Meysman 6 6 2 2 Peter Fankhauser 5 5 1 1 3 3 Michael Healy 6 6 Dawn Airey 6 6 4 4 4 4 Annet Aris 6 6 4 4 3 4 Emre Berkin 6 6 2 2 4 4 4 4 Warren Tucker 6 6 2 2 5 5 4 4 Martine Verluyten 6 6 2 2 5 5 Former Directors Harriet Green 1 1 1 1 1 1 Carl Symon 6 6 1 2 3 5 3 4 Notes: Harriet Green and Carl Symon resigned from the Board on 31 December 2014 and 30 September 2015 respectively.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 75 requirements are monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the BOARD COMPOSITION Group Company Secretary, to ensure that new and recently appointed As at 25 November 2015, the Board comprised the Chairman, Directors gain sufficient knowledge about the Group to enable them two Executive Directors and five Independent Non-Executive to contribute to the Boards deliberations as swiftly as possible.
Biographical details of all Directors can be found New Directors also go on a destination visit during which time they onpages 71 and 72 and on the Companys corporate website meet with in-destination staff and are taken through every aspect atwww.
The induction content and process has evolved significantly as we build on the experience of inducting THE CHAIRMAN each new Director.
We are now using that experience for the benefit Frank Meysman was the Chairman throughout the year.
The roles of of our longer-serving Directors, by giving them the opportunity to the Chairman and CEO are separate and distinct.
There is a Boardaccompany and participate in any aspect that they feel would further approved Division of Responsibilities, which clearly sets out in writing enhance their knowledge and understanding of the Group.
This document can be found on the Companys corporate website at www.
During the year, Peter Fankhauser was appointed as CEO.
Peter had previously held senior roles in the Thomas Cook Group for many THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR years including COO, which meant that he came to the role with in-depth knowledge of the business and working relationships with Dawn Airey took over the role of Senior Independent Director from Carl Symon on 1 October 2015.
The Senior Independent Director is Management and the Board.
Therefore, his induction activity was tailored to reflect this.
available to Shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels involving the Executive At Board meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, Directors or the Chairman.
the Directors receive updates and presentations on developments and changes to the business, and to the legislative and regulatory CHANGES TO THE BOARD environments.
In addition to the benefit of the training given, these The following changes to the Board occurred during the year: programmes also increase the exposure of senior talent to the Board Peter Fankhauser Chief Executive Officer was appointed on and gives the Board presence across the Group.
Board training, 26 November 2014: strategy support presentations, and major business updates given Harriet Green Chief Executive Officer resigned from the position during the year included the following topics: of CEO with effect from the 26 November 2014 and resigned In-resort Health and Safety and the customer experience: asaDirector with effect from 31 December 2014: and The IT function: Carl Symon Non-Executive Director resigned with effect The Northern Europe business: from30 September 2015.
The Airline market: and Corporate Governance developments.
CHANGES TO THE COMMITTEES In view of the changes to the membership of the Board as detailed above, there were also changes to the membership of the Committees during the year.
These are detailed in the relevant Committee sections on pages 79, 82 and 83.
BOARD INDUCTION AND TRAINING An Induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual Directors is provided for each new Director.
Overall, the aim of the Induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the Groups business, its operations and its governance arrangements.
Such inductions typically include: meetings with senior management: visits to the Companys business segments where the Directors receive a thorough briefing on the business and meet with the Management Team: and, the receipt of presentations on other key Emre Berkin on a Health & Safety inspection at business areas and relevant documentation.
Individual induction the Sunprime Waterfront Hotel in Majorca.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 76 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board has a programme for holding some of its meetings at the RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS business Segments, where, in addition to its normal business, the In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Board will focus on the strategy and operations of that Segment and Association, all Directors are subject to election by Shareholders.
meet with local management and staff.
In March 2015, the Board held At the AGM held in February 2015, each of the Directors was submitted its meeting in Stockholm, the main offices of the Northern Europe for election re-election.
The Board has agreed that the Directors Business, where it received presentations on, and met management will continue to be subject to annual election in the future.
Nonand staff of, that business.
Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, subject to annual re-election by Shareholders, and rigorous review by In September 2015, the Board held its meeting in one of the Groups the Nominations Committee: each Non-Executive Director can serve key destinations Majorca.
The Board visited a number of the Groups uptoa maximum of three such terms.
Concept and partner hotels and received tours of the facilities.
The Board met the local destination management team, hotel owners, OPERATION OF THE BOARD hotel management and key individuals from the local community.
Throughout the year, a fully encrypted electronic portal system was The Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee operated, which enabled Board and Committee papers to be delivered also attended a demonstration of a Health and Safety audit of one securely to the Directors.
This enabled fast and secure distribution of the Groups hotels conducted by our third-party expert provider, of information that was accessed using electronic tablets.
The visit enabled the Board to gain a deeper understanding of The CEO kept the Board updated on matters affecting the business the Thomas Cook customer experience which is a key focus of the between meetings.
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted third-party DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE indemnities, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director and the At its September 2015 Board meeting, the Board considered the Group Company Secretary, which were in force during the financial independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria year and up to the date of signing this report.
The Company also specified in the Code and determined that each was independent.
maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act codified the Directors duty The Group Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
on corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group other Directors.
Company Secretary and the Group General Counsel, and through them, have access to independent professional advice in respect The Board has established a set of guiding principles on managing oftheir duties, at the Companys expense.
The Group Company conflicts and has agreed a process to identify and authorise conflicts.
Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees.
As part of that process, it has also agreed that the Nominations Committee should review the authorised conflicts every six months, During the year, Derek Woodward stepped down as Group Company or more frequently if a new potential conflict arises for an existing Secretary with effect from 5 February 2015.
The Nominations Committee reviews the interests of appointed to the position on 5 February 2015 and served until candidates prior to making recommendations for the appointment 10 September 2015 when Alice Marsden was appointed to the position.
The Nominations Committee and Board applied the Biographical details of the Group Company Secretary can be found above principles and process throughout the year to 30 September onpage72.
2015 and confirm that these have operated effectively.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 77 improvement.
The Board has agreed an action plan, which is being BOARD EVALUATION monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the Group Company The Board recognises the benefit of a thorough Board and Committee Secretary, and progress reported regularly to the Board.
Progress will evaluation process, leading to action to improve its effectiveness.
be disclosed in the 2016 Governance report.
Following the comprehensive independent external Board evaluation Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership of carried out in 2014, the Chairman felt that an internal evaluation the Senior Independent Director and with input from the Executive would be appropriate and sufficient in assessing the Boards Directors, conducted an evaluation of the Chairman.
The evaluation was conducted by the from that evaluation were debated by the Board in the absence Group Company Secretary and took the form of a questionnaire of the Chairman and feedback was given to him by the Senior which required Directors to score certain aspects of the Boards Independent Director.
The Board was also invited to give feedback to the Chairman verbally where desired.
The Companys performance management system applies to management at all levels across the Group.
The individual The results of the evaluation were collated and analysed and performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed separately indicated an improvement in all areas of the Boards operation over bytheChairman and the Remuneration Committee.
the previous year, whilst making recommendations for further Outputs from 2014 evaluation Agreed action in 2014 and delivered in 2014 15 Further develop the Induction programme for newly appointed Directors to The existing Induction programme was developed.
create a common platform of understanding of the Companys challenges, assets and key performance indicators.
The Board should continue with its ongoing visits to the business The Board visited the head offices of the Northern Europe Business in segments to ensure the Board develops and maintains a good knowledge Stockholm and the key destination of Majorca in 2015.
More information of the businesses, is visible to theoperations and has access to a broad onthe visit can be found on page 76. group of executives.
The Board should develop the right balance between challenge and The Board agreed the balance, which was built into the Board programme support for the transformation work and clarifying the long-term vision for 2015.
Anumber of strategy presentations and discussions were and strategy of the Company.
The aim should be to ensure that all Board carriedout.
members fully understand the ongoing transformation and the importance of the successful execution of each element, leading to a sustainable future forthe Company.
Outputs from 2015 evaluation Agreed action in 2015 The Board should spend further time on succession planning A Group-wide talent and Succession review was carried out and the andtalentreview.
resultspresented at the July Board meeting.
More information on thereview is given on page 61.
The topic will form a regular item on the agenda.
Following the development of the Non-Executive Director induction The Chairman and Group Company Secretary will review Non-Executive process, the ongoing training of Non-Executive Directors should be Director requirements and address any training needs.
reviewed to ensure all Non-Executive Directors continue to have the necessary knowledge that they need to fulfil their role.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 78 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED THE BOARD AND ITS PRIMARY COMMITTEES BOARD Chairman, CEO, CFO and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval and has a formal structure of delegated authority, whereby specified aspects of management and control of the Group have been delegated to the CEO, and the Boards Committees.
In addition, the Board has agreed the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Disclosure, and Health, Safety & Environmental Committees and the Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO.
AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE HEALTH, SAFETY REMUNERATION COMMITTEE & ENVIRONMENTAL Three Independent Chairman, CEO, and three Four Independent COMMITTEE Non-Executive Directors.
Directors who are the Chairs CEO and three Independent of the Audit, Remuneration Non-Executive Directors.
Committee report on page 79 Committee report on page 82 Committee report on page 83 Committee report on page 88 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE CEO, CFO and Group General Counsel CEO, appointed as Chairman, CFO, Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Other attendees include senior managers To facilitate swift and efficient operational Management decisions, from Group Finance and Investor Relations.
the Committee has delegated authority within clearly identified parameters in relation to day-to-day financing and administrative matters.
A schedule The Committee meets regularly during the year to consider the Groups of decisions taken by the Committee is reported to the next Board Meeting.
disclosure obligations and to review all results announcements prior to release.
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Functional and Segment leaders Meets on a monthly basis to consider and approve key business matters, including matters exceeding the delegated authority of the CEO and his direct reports.
The GMC is also responsible for cascading information to the Thomas Cook Leadership Council TCLC and engages in Risk and Audit monitoring of the business.
Further information of the role of TCLC can be found on page 60.
During the year, the governance structure of the organisation AGM to allot shares equal to approximately one-third of the Companys was revised and streamlined with the introduction of the Group issued share capital as at 8 January 2015 or two-thirds in respect Management Committee.
The new structure is designed to enable of a rights issue.
The Directors were also given the power to allot swift and efficient decision making under NUMO.
Ordinary Shares for cash up to a limit representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital at 8 January 2015 without The schedule of matters reserved, the terms of reference of each of first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their the Boards Committees and the Division of Responsibilities between existing holdings.
the Chairman and the CEO, are available on the Companys website at www.
The powers of the Directors are set out The papers in respect of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and in the Companys Articles of Association which are available on the Health, Safety & Environmental Committees are circulated to all the Companys website.
The Directors were authorised at the 2015 Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 79 AUDIT COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Companys internal and external auditors.
The Committee, which reports its findings to the Board, isauthorised to: monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and quarterly results statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: review the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: Chairman monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Martine Verluyten audit function: Scheduled Meetings establish and oversee the Companys relationship with its external Five auditors, including the monitoring of their independence: and monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys Other members whistleblowing arrangements.
Warren Tucker Dawn Airey To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, Directors biographies the Committee receives information and support from management On pages 70 to 72 across the business.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
com or from the Group Company Meetings also regularly attended by: Secretary at the registered office.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors, Peter Fankhauser CEO, Michael Healy CFO, Craig Stoehr Group General Counsel and Head of M&A, LeeBradley Chief Risk Officer, Alice Marsden Group Company Secretary, Bill Scott Group Financial Controller and PwC.
Composition of the Committee Carl Symon resigned from the Committee on 30 September 2015.
Dawn Airey was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 October 2015.
Committee activities The Committee reviewed: Financial: The full and half-year results including accounting issues and judgements andthe quarterly results statements issued during the year: and the processes underpinning the preparation of those documents Information in support of the statements in relation to going concern, viability, fair, balanced and understandable presentation, and disclosure of information to theauditors The annual work plan for eachof the internal and external auditors Governance: The Committees own work plan for the year and a review of historic activity against the Committees terms ofreference The effectiveness of the GroupEnterprise Risk and Auditfunction The effectiveness of the external audit process The Groups compliance programmes The Companys internal financial controls The Groups Viability Statement Martine Verluyten and Warren Tucker are considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 80 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR EXTERNAL AUDITOR The main focus of the Audit Committee during the year has been to Non-Audit fees support and oversee the continuing improvement, led by executive The current policy requires all material non-audit work carried out management, of the Groups risk management and internal control by the external auditors to be pre-authorised by the Committee arrangements.
In that regard, the Committee has reviewed and in order to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does commented on regular risk and audit reports prepared by the not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Chief Risk Officer see below, which summarised matters for the The policy, which is appended as a schedule to the Audit Committees Committees attention.
In addition, the Committee received formal terms of reference, is published on the Companys website at reports from Group Finance which set out the principal accounting www.
An analysis of the fees earned by and disclosure matters for the Committees consideration before theGroups auditors for audit and non-audit services is disclosed approving the Group half-year and full year results announcements.
These activities, together with regular reports from the external auditors, have supported the Audit Committee in providing its advice Effectiveness and Independence to the Board in respect of the effectiveness of internal control see PwC were appointed as the sole auditors to the Group in 2008 and section headed Risk management and internal control on page84.
since that date have complied with the partner rotation requirement The Committee has noted enhancements in risk management set out in the Ethical Standards for auditors: Paul Cragg, a Partner capability supported by a greater risk awareness and culture of PwC, was appointed Senior Statutory Auditor in February 2013. embedded throughout the Group.
PwC were re-appointed as the Companys auditors by Shareholders at the AGM held on 23 February 2015.
PwC have confirmed their The Committee is supported in its work by the Risk Matters Group, independence as auditors of the Company in a letter addressed which is comprised of relevant representatives of the Senior tothe Directors.
Management Team and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
At the end of two of its meetings during the year, the Committee and also In November each year, the Audit Committee reviews the those Non-Executive Directors who are not on the Committee met effectiveness of the external audit process.
This includes reviewing with the Chief Risk Officer and the external auditors in the absence comprehensive papers from both Management and the external of management.
auditors, which set out the planning and execution of the conduct of the audit.
The Audit Committee holds a meeting with the external auditors in the absence of Management to discuss further.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, PwC will be proposed for re-election by Shareholders at the AGM to be held on 23 February 2016.
In reaching its decision to propose PwC for re-election, the Audit Committee took into account the effectiveness of the external audit process, the length of tenure of PwC as auditors and the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
The Company intends to carry out a formal tender process for the audit ofthe financial year ending 30 September 2017.
LEE BRADLEY CHIEF RISK OFFICER Responsibilities: Managing the Risk Management, Health and Safety, Security and Internal Audit functions, Lee reports to the Chair of the Audit Committee and the Chair of the Health and Safety Committee.
Skills and experience: Lee joined Thomas Cook in 2012 and brought with him a deep knowledge and extensive experience of embedding the culture and practices of sound risk management, gained from working in numerous listed companies operating in multiple sectors.
Lee has previously worked for Manchester Airport PLC, Kwik Fit Group and Thames Water PLC.
indd 80 06 01 2016 13:09 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 81 COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES The Committee is authorised to monitor the integrity of the annual, The Audit Committee also reviewed a paper prepared by the external half-year results and quarterly results statements, including a auditors, which included significant reporting and accounting review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained matters.
Both papers were reviewed and discussed by the Audit in them.
In May and November each year, the Committee reviews Committee.
The Committee pays particular attention to matters that a comprehensive paper prepared by the Group Financial Controller, it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Group results and remuneration of senior management, or the level of whichset out the Groups accounting policies and basis of preparation.
In this context the Committee considers the following areas: complexity, judgement or estimation in their application in preparation of the Groups financial statements.
The significant issues considered key disclosure considerations, including going concern and the bytheAuditCommittee are shown in the table below: viability statement: separately disclosed items and like-for-like analysis: matters arising in the preparation of the Group accounts: and the impact of new accounting developments.
Significant issues in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee considered by the Committee Going Concern and Viability: Consideration of longer-term viability The Committee considered papers prepared by Management and concluded through assessment of ongoing solvency of liquidity.
that Managements recommendation to prepare accounts onagoing concern basis was appropriate.
Impairment and deferred tax: In view of the Groups losses in recent The Committee considered a paper presenting Managements intended years, the Committee considered whether there was a need to impair approach and having taken input from the auditors, agreed with certain asset values, including goodwill and the reasonableness of the Managements proposals.
Groups recognition of deferred taxassets.
Separately disclosed items: The Group has an established policy of The Committee considered Managements presentation of separately separately disclosing items that are either exceptional or detract from disclosed items and in particular items relating to the Groups thereaders understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
transformation and certain non-cash finance allocations.
Having consideredthe matter, the Committee agreed to adopt Managements proposed presentation.
New Operating Model NUMO : The structural changes envisaged to the The Committee reviewed the principal areas impacted by NUMO and Groups Tour Operator businesses by NUMO are significant, with costs therelated accounting treatment for costs incurred as part of the required to implement the new model.
Aircraft leases and maintenance provisions: The Group has significant The Committee considered the Groups accounting for aircraft leases and liabilities in respect of aircraft leases and related maintenance obligations.
maintenance provisions to ensure that the treatment is appropriate.
Accounting treatment in this area can be subjective.
Control environment: The Group is currently engaged in transformation The Committee considered the broader risks associated with this encompassing most aspects of its activities.
The transformation requires transformation as well as focusing on the operation of the Groups control evolution of several aspects of the Groups financial reporting and control environment during the transformation period.
The Committee considered environment and processes.
papers prepared by Management that highlighted the development requirements and plans within finance and a report by Management on theoperation of financial andnon-financial controls throughout the year.
Auditor rotation: The Group is required to comply with developing The Committee considered a paper prepared by Management which regulatory requirements in respect of Auditor rotation.
proposed a formal audit tender process commencing in December 2015.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 82 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or its Committees.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to the Board, as well as Board balance and composition.
The Committee ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role description and capabilities required for such appointments.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing, at least every six months, or more frequently if required, the Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board in respect of authorising such matters.
Chairman The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at Frank Meysman www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary atthe registered office.
Scheduled Meetings Two PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Other members The main issue considered by the Committee was the transition to Emre Berkin, Peter Fankhauser, WarrenTucker and Martine Verluyten a new Chief Executive Officer in November 2014.
Peter Fankhauser Directors biographies had previously been identified in the succession planning process on pages 70 to 72 as a suitable successor to Harriet Green.
The Committee concluded that Peter Fankhauser had the right knowledge, skills and experience Meetings also regularly attended by: totake the Company through the next stage of the transformation, The other Non-Executive Directors, Alice Marsden Group Company Secretary andCraigStoehr Group General Counsel and Head of M&A.
and recommended his appointment to the Board.
Composition of the Committee BOARD APPOINTMENTS POLICY A majority of the members of the Committee are Independent NonExecutive Directors.
Peter Fankhauser was appointed to the Committee The Board appointments policy reinforces the Boards principle that on 26 November 2015.
Harriet Green and Carl Symon stepped down from appointments are made on merit, in line with its current and future the Committee on 31December 2014 and 30 September 2015 respectively.
requirements, and reflect the UK listing and international activity of the Group.
The policy also recognises the benefits of diversity, Committee activities including gender diversity.
The appointment during the course of Considered succession planning of Executive and Non-Executive Directors: the year was in line with that policy and has reinforced the diverse Considered and recommended the appointment of Peter Fankhauser composition of the Board.
A table illustrating the diversity of the asCEO: Board is shown on page 70.
The Board endorses the aims of the Considered and recommended the appointment of Alice Marsden Davies report entitled Women on Boards.
The Boards gender asGroup Company Secretary: diversity at 38% female is in excess of Lord Davies new target of Considered the re-appointment of the Directors before making a 33%.
The Chairman is a member of the 30% Club, which has the aim recommendation to the Board regarding their re-election at the 2015AGM: ofpromoting the achievement of30% women on FTSE 100 Boards Considered and recommended the re-appointment of Emre Berkin bythe end of 2015.
A copy of the Groups Board appointments policy following completion of his initial three-year term: can be found on our website atwww.
Considered the overall composition and balance of the Board and engaged external search consultants to identify an individual to replace Carl Symon: and Considered Directors potential conflicts of interests and independence.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 83 HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups business.
It is also responsible for the review and oversight of compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating to health, safety and the environment across the Group.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR During the year, customer safety was a particular focus for the Chairman Committee and a number of activities were undertaken to deepen the Emre Berkin Committees knowledge and understanding in this area.
In September, the Chairman of the Committee joined the Companys specialist Scheduled Meetings Four external third-party audit provider SGS on a Health and Safety inspection of one of the Groups hotels and the Board received a Other members detailed presentation on the topic.
During the year, the Committee Dawn Airey, Annet Aris and Peter Fankhauser reviewed, monitored and oversaw a number of improvements and Directors biographies activities in this area including: on pages 70 to 72 The evaluation of the performance of the Third-Party Audit Supplier Meetings also regularly attended by: SGS following completion of its first full year of service provision: The other Non-Executive Directors, Lee Bradley Chief Risk Officer, Peter The re-organisation and continued development of the Group Health, Welsh Group Head of Health, Safety & Security, Steve Solomon Director, Safety & Security Team to ensure the development of policy and Group Aviation Safety, Compliance andSecurity, Alice Marsden Group procedures across the Group and provide the requisite support Company Secretary andCraig Stoehr Group General Counsel and Head foritseffective implementation: of M&A.
The continued alignment of the Group with the technical standards Composition of the Committee promulgated by the Federation of Tour Operators FTO : Harriet Green stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2014 The increased monitoring of transportation, accommodation and and Peter Fankhauser was appointed on 26 November 2014. excursion suppliers to drive improvements in their performance Committee activities with a view to increasing the standards customers experience: Reviewed and monitored outcomes of Third-Party Audit Supplier reports The introduction of a new electronic reporting programme Reviewed customer and employee accident reports at each meeting designed to effectively report incidents and accidents enabling Continued development of the Groups health and safety timely investigation and implementation of remedial actions improvementplan where necessary: Group Airline safety and reports from the Group Aviation Safety Improving the training of the Groups employees through the Management Board Government Affairs updates provision of new e-learning content: and Sustainability updates The active engagement with the FTO in responding to the European Approval of the Groups sustainability report Commissions Green Paper on Safety of Tourism Accommodation Services and making an individual submission in support of legislation proposed to improve safety standards across Europe.
The Committee also considered a number of matters in respect of employee safety and oversaw a number of developments in this area including the implementation of a new cloud based IT system toimprove the monitoring of employee workplace safety.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 84 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Additionally, the Board responds to ad-hoc requests for information SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION and all shareholders are entitled to attend the Annual General ANDENGAGEMENT Meeting.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to lodge their votes The Board promotes open communication with shareholders.
This is by way of proxy and or to attend such meetings in person where formalised within the framework of an ongoing investor relations they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board including programme conducted by the CEO, the CFO and the Investor Relations the chairs of the Board Committees, vote by way of a poll and meet Team.
The programme includes the presentation of preliminary and informally with the Directors to discuss any issues they may wish half-year results which can be accessed on the Thomas Cook Group to raise.
website and a large number of meetings with existing shareholders and potential investors throughout the year.
The Company makes In line with the authority given at its 2008 AGM, the Company uses every effort to ascertain investor perceptions ofthe Company and its website and email as the primary means of communication with regular reports of investor and analyst feedback are provided to its shareholders.
This arrangement provides significant benefits for the Board.
shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, reduced environmental impact and cost.
Shareholders may still opt During the year, both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of to receive their communications in a paper format.
The Companys the Remuneration Committee had ongoing dialogue with shareholders corporate website contains information for shareholders, including in respect of Executive remuneration matters.
In December 2014, share price information and news releases.
It can be found at they conducted a wide-scale engagement with a large number www.
of the Companys major institutional shareholders representing approximately 64% of the Companys share capital and governance RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL bodies to: update them in respect of matters concerning the change During the year, there has been continued progress made in the in CEO, executive remuneration and governance matters: and, to seek area of risk management and internal control.
This has been led views on the Groups proposed award to the Executive Directors with a distinct tone from the top set by the Board and the Group under the Performance Share Plan in 2015.
The engagement was Management Committee.
A highly experienced and dedicated supportive and constructive and the Board and the Remuneration team ofrisk and audit professionals under the leadership of Lee Committee were briefed on the feedback from the above discussions.
Bradley, Chief Risk Officer, has driven a significant improvement The views expressed by shareholders were taken into account agenda to support Management in this important area.
High-calibre when finalising executive remuneration arrangements.
The Board professionals were recruited into key positions in the Group and were pleased with the overwhelming shareholder support given in Segment Finance Teams, which has enabled the Group to further favour of the resolutions at the 2015 AGM in respect of the Groups enhance its risk management capability across the business, thereby remuneration policy and practice.
enhancing the risk management and internal control environments.
Dawn Airey was appointed Senior Independent Director with effect The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining from 1 October 2015, and will provide an additional channel through an effective system of internal control and risk management which shareholders can engage with the Board if they so wish.
that is appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature In respect of its debt investors, the Company maintains regular of the Groups activities, and complies with the UK Corporate dialogue with key relationship banks which includes bi-annual Governance Code.
The Board has approved the framework and meetings with presentations, from the Executive Management thestandards implemented.
During the year, it also held update and review meetings The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal with Standard & Poors and Fitch, the Companys two credit risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its ratingagencies.
The Company hosts a dedicated conference call business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This is for bondholders on a bi-annual basis and during the year the Group fullydescribed in the Risk management section on pages 56 to 59.
Treasurer also engaged with Bondholders both as a group, and, on a one-to-one basis, at several Investment-bank sponsored conferences.
The Groups internal control and risk management systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, but notabsolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 85 REVIEW OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT IN RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system The Group has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of of internal control.
The Board is monitoring the internal control the preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial reports.
processes on an ongoing basis, including financial, operational and This process includes: compliance controls, under the auspices of the Group Enterprise the involvement of qualified, professional employees with an Risk and Audit function.
Regular reports on control issues are appropriate level of experience both in Group Finance and presented to and discussed with the Audit Committee and there is throughout the business : a follow-up process in place to ensure audit recommendations are formal sign-offs from appropriate business segment managing fully implemented by Management.
This work is also complemented, directors and finance directors: supported and challenged by the controls assurance work carried comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from out independently by the external auditors, PwC.
The Board has seen keyinternal Group functions: continued improvement and has noted ongoing progress and active a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information focus in the internal control processes during this year.
The Board, to theexternal auditors.
Engagement of a professional and in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, can experienced firm of external auditors: confirm that necessary actions continue to be taken to remedy any oversight by the Groups Audit Committee, involving amongst significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
other duties : a detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which GOING CONCERN have been discussed by Management: Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed review and, where appropriate, challenge on matters including: in connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in policies and practices during the year: preparing the financial statements.
significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior toendorsement by the Board: and the going concern assumption.
The above process, and the review by the Audit Committee of a comprehensive note that sets out the details of the preparation, internal verification and approval process for the Annual Report &Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Annual Report &Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess theCompanys performance, business model and strategy.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 86 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED CODE OF CONDUCT STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE DIRECTORS The Groups Code of Conduct, sets out the Groups Values, REMUNERATION REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL Leadership Behaviours and Ways of Working how we expect our STATEMENTS employees to conduct themselves in their everyday working life.
It covers areas such as: behaviour towards our customers and our The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, people: health and safety: reputation management: sustainable the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements operation: supplier relationships: anti-bribery: conflicts of interest: in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law competition law: risk management and controls: fraud, theft and requiresthe Directors to prepare financial statements for each false accounting: IT security: share dealing and our prohibition of financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the political donations.
The Code also includes guidance to employees Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with about their responsibility to report problems and issues that come International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by to their attention and the alternative ways of raising such issues the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law in escalating order line management, HR, and the Trustline togive a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company see below.
andthe Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Code of Conduct is issued to all employees in paper copy and is In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: also available on the Groups intranet and website.
In addition, the select suitable accounting policies and then apply Group Company Secretary is available for advice on any matter which them consistently: may give rise to cause for concern.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and To ensure the progress made is fully sustainable and the Code state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted remains embedded across the organisation, there is a process to by the European Union.
ensure that all new employees receive training as part of their Induction programme.
In view of its importance to the Group, training The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above is measured through local HR Departments and every employee has requirements in preparing the financial statements.
to confirm they have received their training and understand the Code The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting on an annual basis.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys WHISTLEBLOWING transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable them to As mentioned above, the Code includes guidance to employees ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration about their responsibility to report problems and issues that come report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the to their attention by way of an independently run whistleblowing Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are helpline called Trustline.
Details of the Trustline are published in also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the the Code of Conduct booklet and also on the Groups intranet site.
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps forthe prevention and Significant issues brought to Managements attention through the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Trustline are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website, and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, who were in office at the date of this report, whose names and functions are listed on pages 70 to 72, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic and Directors report contained on pages 16 to 65 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 87 FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In making this confirmation, the Directors took into account their knowledge of the business, which is kept up-to-date with regular reports, updates and business reviews circulated prior to and discussed at each Board meeting, and supplemented by a variety of written reports, verbal updates and presentations including the training and strategy support presentations detailed on page 75 given at Board and Committee meetings as well as a regular flow of information about the business between meetings.
The Directors then took into account the thorough preparation and verification process in respect of the Annual Report & Accounts, which included sufficient time for the Directors to review the Annual Report & Accounts and to feed in their comments to Management before approving the document.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and that he she has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make him her aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware ofthat information.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RELATED DISCLOSURES Disclosures in relation to the share capital of the Company, including the Companys major Shareholders are given in the Other disclosures section on pages 105 to 107.
