Corporate governance report Introduction from the Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce our corporate governance report.
The Board believes that how we do business is as important as what we do and is committed to delivering the highest standard of corporate governance.
Ensuring we have the right approach to governance and that the Board works effectively will be my key focus in my first year.
Commercial income issue The overstatement of expected profit was identified in the second half of the 2014 15 year.
The Board sincerely regrets what has happened but moved swiftly and decisively to address John Allan these serious matters.
As this subject is of such major importance, a statement addressing Chairman this matter is set out on the following page.
Board changes In this section The Board has seen significant change over the last year.
As well as my own appointment This corporate governance report is as Chairman, we have appointed a new CEO, Dave Lewis, and a new CFO, Alan Stewart, intended to provide shareholders with to lead the turnaround of this great business.
Four of our Non-executive Directors retired a clear and comprehensive view of the and a further two Non-executive Directors will not put themselves forward for re-election at Groups governance arrangements and this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
I would like to thank these Directors for their how it has operated during the year.
commitment and contribution to the Company.
We have also appointed three new We have structured the report as follows: Non-executive Directors, Richard Cousins, Mikael Olsson and Byron Grote, and I would like to welcome them to the Board.
Ensuring we have the right skills and experience is a key p33 Commercial income issue priority and the Board will continue to evolve to best meet the needs of the business.
p34 Our corporate governance framework p34 Corporate governance highlights The UK Corporate Governance Code p37 Audit Committee report We recognise and support the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This year we complied with the relevant provisions of this Code except for the areas described below: p40 Corporate Responsibility Committee report p41 Nominations Committee report Board evaluation and Chairmans performance evaluation p43 Compliance with the UK The Board had previously agreed a three-year cycle whereby they would conduct Corporate Governance Code an externally-led review in one year, followed by internally-led reviews in the subsequent two years, one led by the Chairman and one led by the Senior Independent Director.
The externally-led evaluation was due in 2014 15 as the last one was conducted in 2011 12.
However, given the number of changes to the Board, including my own appointment, the Board agreed that an external review would be of more value if carried out during 2015 16.
An internal review of the Board and its Committees was conducted and further details about this can be found on page 36.
Sir Richard Broadbent was Chairman throughout the 2014 15 year but stepped down on 1 March 2015.
Given his planned departure, the Board agreed that there would be no benefit in conducting a performance review.
My performance as Chairman in 2015 16 will be assessed by the Non-executive Directors, led by our Senior Independent Director, Richard Cousins.
Audit tender On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board decided to put the Companys external audit out for tender this year.
After 32 years we and  LLP mutually agreed that they would not take part in the tender.
They will therefore step down as the Companys Auditor at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
A resolution to appoint the Companys new Auditor will be proposed at the Companys AGM in June, and this is set out within the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
It was a challenging year for the business and putting things right will take time but I believe we are on the right road to success and I am looking forward to playing my part in this.
John Allan Chairman 32 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
