Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee has an integral role in providing confidence in the integrity of the Companys processes and procedures in relation to internal control, risk management and financial reporting.
The Committee supports the Board in assessing whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provide sufficient information to allow an assessment of the Company.
Ken Hanna A major part of the Committees work this year has been dominated by the discovery Audit Committee Chairman that commercial income had been overstated in both prospective and historic financial information published by the Company.
Further details are set out elsewhere in the Governance Report, and below.
Audit Committee attendance Since the year end, Olivia Garfield, Gareth Bullock and Patrick Cescau have retired from Members Number Actual the Board and the Audit Committee.
It was announced on 5 March 2015, that Byron of possible meetings Grote will join the Board on 1 May 2015 and will also join the Audit Committee.
meetings attended attended Ken Hanna Chairman 8 8 Ken Hanna Audit Committee Chairman Mark Armour 8 8 Patrick Cescau 8 7 Resigned Activities during the year 7 April 2015 Much of the Committees time this year has been spent dealing with the commercial Gareth Bullock 8 7 Resigned income issue, details of which are set out under Commercial income issue elsewhere 5 March 2015 in the Governance Report.
Olivia Garfield 7 7 Appointed Areas of particular concern for the Committee in relation to the commercial income issue 1 April 2014 have been: Resigned 28 February 2015 a to understand how the overstatement identified has accumulated over time, how it has Richard Cousins 2 2 affected prior years results, and to consider whether the impact on past years results Appointed was such as to require them to be restated: 1November 2014 b to ensure that all financial aspects of the Groups relationship with its suppliers, both Byron Grote in the UK and in our international operations, have been the subject of rigorous internal Appointed and external audit focus: 1 May 2015 c to satisfy itself, in discussions with the CEO and CFO and the internal and external auditors and advisors, that the remedial steps proposed to the Groups financial systems and internal controls and the interim measures to be applied until these new steps are fully implemented Audit Committee responsibilities are sufficient to avoid any repetition of the issues that have emerged in relation to The Committees terms of reference can be found commercial income.
This included comprehensive internal audit reviews at www.
Ken Hanna, Mark Armour, of commercial income controls across all Group territories: and Richard Cousins and Byron Grote all have recent d to consider the appropriate treatment in our accounts for potential fines and litigation risk and relevant financial experience.
arising as a result of these matters.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Consider the appointment of the external As well as the exceptional matters referred to above, during the year the Committee received auditors, their reports to the Committee and update reports from the Tesco Bank Audit Committee,  LLP, the their independence, including an assessment Disclosure Committee and the Group Compliance Committee.
It also received updates from of their appropriateness to conduct any Internal Audit on its work, including findings from its internal audit programme and a non-audit work comprehensive Group-wide review of stock controls carried out after the discovery of the Review the financial statements and announcements relating to the financial commercial income issue.
The Committee considered a variety of matters including Group and performance of the Company Business Unit Risk Registers: fraud, bribery and corruption: business continuity management: the Review the internal audit programme and ensure Groups compliance with the Groceries Supply Code of Practice and reports from the Group that the Internal Audit function is adequately Compliance Committee.
resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company In relation to the financial statements, the Committee: reviewed and recommended approval Discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of the audit of the half-yearly results and annual financial statements: considered impairment reviews: Review, and challenge where necessary, considered going concern status: reviewed and recommended the interim dividend level: the actions and judgements of management, reviewed corporate governance disclosures: and monitored the statutory audit.
The Committee in relation to the interim and annual financial also advised the Board on whether the financial statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced statements before submission to the Board and understandable and provide the necessary information to assess the Companys performance, Review formally the effectiveness of the external business model and strategy.
The Committee concluded that the disclosures, and the processes and internal audit processes Consider managements response to any major and controls underlying their production, were appropriate and recommended to the Board that external or internal audit recommendations the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
Review the Companys plans for business continuity Review the Companys plans for the prevention On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board decided to put the Companys and detection of fraud, bribery and corruption external audit out for tender this year.
After 32 years we and  LLP Report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities mutually agreed that they would not take part in the tender.
They will therefore step down as the Companys Auditor at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
A resolution to appoint the Companys new Auditor will be proposed at the Companys AGM in June, and this is set out within the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 37
