GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The following pages explain how the Company has applied An internal evaluation of the Boar ds performance was the principles and provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate conducted this year in a fully open and transparent Governance Code the Code during 2015.
The Board was judged to be performing well, following pages might appear somewhat boiler plate, despite the fact that in many respects it is a relatively despite our best efforts, I would like to make the following new Board.
Conclusions and recommended actions from points as introduction: the review are summarised on page 101.
F ollowing the appointment of Coline McConville as a W e welcome extensive and regular engagement with our non-executive director in February, the three-year process shareholders on both business and governance matters.
of succession planning for both executive and nonWe held two separate presentation days covering the executive directors is now complete.
Andrew Simons Groups property and supply chain functions.
These have tenure as a director completed in October and his proved to be very helpful in giving closer insights into the responsibilities as senior independent director and his role Groups competitive strengths.
as chairman of the Remuneration Committee and of the On g overnance, the Group engages early and with as Stay Safe Committee were taken by Chris Rogers, Coline wide a range of shareholders as possible.
During 2015, we McConville and Peter Redfern respectively.
Meetings were held with In the f irst year of joining a board, some absences from four.
We remain disappointed that many holders chose meetings are inevitable: particularly when the nonnot to engage, on the basis that they had no governance executive director concerned has full time executive concerns.
From our perspective, we always prefer to have responsibilities.
This was indeed the case in 2015, a regular annual discussion.
although all absences were notified by the individual The following pages summarise the Companys governance concerned well in advance of his or her joining the Board.
practices by reference to the five main sections of the Code.
Going forward, this will be less of an issue.
As I mentioned in last y ears report, our initiative of having individual non-executive directors including myself mentoring or adopting businesses and functions within the Group was lapsed due to changes in Board membership.
This has now been reinvigorated and each non-executive has been allocated responsibility for key businesses or central functions.
We plan to rotate these assignments every year or so.
98 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION Between Board meetings I maintain frequent direct contact 1.
Leadership with the Executive Directors and keep the non-executive At 31 December 2015 the Board was made up of six Directors informed of material developments.
I held a non-executive directors including myself as Chairman number of meetings during the year with all the and two executive directors.
Chris Rogers is the Senior Non-executive Directors, without the Executive Directors Independent Director.
The Board has a schedule of matters being present.
reserved to it, which is reviewed annually.
Revisions were Board Meetings made in December 2015 to: The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2015.
Three Raise to 10m the level of disposal r equiring meetings considered the Groups long term strategy.
Four Board approval meetings included either visits to parts of the Groups Requir e board approval for transactions involving related operations or presentations by senior executives on their parties and for class transactions under the Listing Rules areas of responsibility.
One meeting included a visit to the operational site of a major supplier.
Non-executive directors Make clearer and to conform with updated guidance.
also made individual visits to operational sites.
In addition to the regular board meetings, key financial information is The Boards key responsibilities are for overall Group circulated to the Directors outside of meetings.
strategy, policy on corporate governance, approval of expansion plans and major capital expenditure, The Company typically sets its meeting dates for any consideration of significant financial and operational matters year 15-18 months prior to the start of the year and liaises and the Groups exposure to key risks.
It also reviews the closely with Non-Executive directors in setting meeting strategy of the individual businesses, the annual budget and dates for any year to ensure so far as possible that clashes progress towards the achievement of the budget and long with external commitments are avoided.
Legislative, environmental, health and safety and employment issues are also considered.
Directors are always provided with the opportunity to attend meetings by video or telephone conference if the issue The Board has approved a written statement of the division is one of location and travel.
If, despite that, a Director is of key responsibilities between the Chairman, and the unavoidably absent from a Board or Board Committee Chief Executive and a statement of the role of the Senior meeting they still receive and review the papers and provide Independent Director.
These are reviewed annually and no verbal or written input to the Chairman so that their views changes were made in 2015. are made known and considered at the meeting.
The Company maintains directors & officers insurance Commitments at other organisations with a 31 December in respect of the risk of claims against directors.
This is year end e. g. Taylor Wimpey inevitably lead to diary reviewed annually and has not been changed in 2015. congestion during the full and half year results season, Alldirectors have direct access to the Company Secretary particularly within the first year of appointment, since it General Counsel and may take independent professional takes some time to get diaries in sync.
The Companys advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
practice is therefore to hold the related Audit Committee a week prior to the Board and to invite non-members so I agree the agenda for board meetings in conjunction with that Directors unable to attend the full Board meeting can the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary General consider and discuss the papers in a group forum.
Agendas are based upon an annual plan, but also include matters of particular interest or concern to the Pete Redfern was appointed on 1 November 2014 and was Board at any particular time.
unable to attend three meetings in 2015.
Two meetings clashed with his Taylor Wimpey board commitments, and I monitor the information provided to the Board to ensure it one with personal commitments.
is sufficient, timely and clear.
The clashes were identified during the recruitment and on I generally contact all the Non-executive Directors in boarding process and initially there were a greater number advance of Board meetings, to suggest the key issues for of clashes for 2015.
Wherever possible, either the clashing discussion.
In particular I discuss the meeting papers with Taylor Wimpey or Travis Perkins meeting was moved, but it any director who is unable to attend, to obtain that directors proved impossible to find a workable alternative date for the views.
At the meetings, as Chairman, I ensure that each three meetings he missed.
director is able to make an effective contribution within an atmosphere of transparency and constructive debate.
John Rogers was appointed also on 1 November 2014 and was unable to attend two meetings in 2015, one due to a clash with J Sainsbury Audit Committee & Board meetings and one, whilst he attended the seven week Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 99 GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each director in whole or in part during the year is detailed in the table below.
PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Stay Safe No.
4 Number of meetings 9 5 3 1 3 Attendances: R. Anderson 9 5 - 1 3 3 A. Buffin 9 - - - - 3 J. Carter 9 - - - 3 1 C. McConville 9 5 3 1 - P. Redfern 6 - 2 0 2 C. Rogers 9 5 - 1 - J. Rogers 7 5 2 0 - 2 A. Simon 6 - 1 1 2 3 R. Walker 9 - 3 1 3 1 2 3 Appointed 1 February 2015 Retired 31 October 2015 Although not a member of the Audit Committee has attended 5 meetings during the year 4 All Audit Committee members also attended a meeting at which audit tender presentations were made by participating firms Board Committees 2.
Effectiveness The Group has five Board Committees: the Audit None of the specific circumstances set out in Code Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations provision B.
1.1 apply and the Board is satisfied that all the Committee, the Stay Safe Committee and the Executive Non-executive Directors are independent.
Committee, which operate within defined terms of reference, Given the significant changes to Board composition which are reviewed annually.
Summaries of these are which had taken place over the past three years and the available on the Companys website or may be obtained Companys ambitions for growth presented to investors at from the Company Secretary.
The minutes of committee the 2013 Capital Markets day, the issue of orderly Board meetings are circulated to all the Directors.
succession is of critical importance.
A period of transition The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and handover of between nine and twelve months between and its members are listed on pages 97.
Other executives Andrew Simon and the recently appointed directors are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific who have assumed membership and chairmanship of matters.
The main purpose of this Committee is to assist Committees in his place was considered to be necessary the Executive Directors in the performance of their duties in and in the best interests of investors and accordingly the relation in particular to: Board decided to extend Andrews term of office until 31 October 2015.
Str ategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets Appointments of new directors are made by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
I chair The monitoring of operational and financial performance that Committee and all the other members are independent non-executive directors.
A report of the Committees work in The assessment and control of risk 2015 is on pages 126 to 127.
The prioritisation and allocation of resources Appointments of non-executive directors The Companys policy is to recruit people of the highest calibre, with a breadth of skills and experience appropriate for the Companys business.
The Groups businesses both trade and retail, are trading businesses.
The Group supports the principles of the Davies Review and the need for a diverse board, although it does not intend to commit to specific quotas.
The Group uses search firms who abide by the voluntary code of conduct which followed the Davies 100 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION Review.
The Board diversity policy is summarised in the In 2007, 2011 and in 2014, the Boards performance was Nominations Committee Report.
reviewed externally by Egon Zehnder.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a period until Turning to 2015 the Board carried out an internal review the third AGM following election, at the end of which the of its performance.
This entailed each director completing appointment may be renewed by mutual agreement.
It a questionnaire about the performance of the Board and is the Boards policy that non-executive directors should its Committees, followed by individual conversations with generally serve for six years two three-year terms and that me.
I presented my report to the Board in December 2015. any term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous review.
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors led by the This review takes into account the need for progressive Senior Independent Director conducted a review of my refreshing of the Board, maintenance of a balance of skills own performance.
and experience and the particular requirements of the As a result, the Board determined that it had effectively Company at the time of the possible extension.
managed the achievement of the Companys objectives Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, during the year, that the mix of knowledge and skills among but each has received a letter of appointment.
These Board members was appropriate, and that the Board appointments expire on the following dates, and the length worked cohesively.
of service at that date is also shown.
For 2016, the following areas for focus, among others, were identified: Ruth Anderson May 2018 6 years 7 months Coline McConville May 2018 3 years 4 months T he balance of strategic vs. operational issues on the agenda Pete Redfern May 2018 3 years 7 months Christopher Rogers August 2016 3 years Develop a c lear process and timeline for future Board and senior executive succession John Rogers May 2018 3 years 7 months Robert Walker May 2018 8 years 8 months Board ownership of the risk management process Driving quality improvements in Board information In 2016, an internal review of the Boards performance will The letters of appointment will be available for inspection once again be conducted.
at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Coline McConville joined the Board on 1 February 2015 Coline is a nonRe-election executive director of Inchcape PLC, TUI AG, Fevertree Drinks PLC and UTV Media PLC.
Andrew Simon retired from the At the AGM, all directors will submit themselves for Board on 31 October 2015. election or re-election as appropriate.
As a result of the Board evaluation exercise, as Chairman I am satisfied that Induction each director continues to show the necessary level of commitment to the Group, and has sufficient time available The Group has an induction process for new directors, which to fulfil his or her duties, to justify their election or reis facilitated by the Company Secretary General Counsel.
The other directors, in a process led by the Senior In particular, this includes a programme of meetings Independent Director, have reached a similar view with with senior management in both operations and central regard to my own re-election.
functions, and visits to a range of branches and stores.
Iensure that all directors receive appropriate training on The Board believes that there is presently a blend of skills appointment and then subsequently as required, taking into and experience among the Non-executive Directors which account the need to update their skills and their knowledge is appropriate for the Group.
The skills required for the of the Companys business.
Non-executive directors are Board include experience in the merchanting and retail also regularly provided with information on forthcoming sectors, capital project and M&A evaluation, as well as the legal and regulatory changes and corporate governance essential understanding of financial controls and developments, and briefings on the key risks facing the accounting.
An understanding of information technology Company, including those identified in the Statement of is increasingly important.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 65 to 69.
Accountability Each year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its performance and the performance of its Committees and A review of the performance of the Groups businesses individual directors.
The Boards policy is to engage an and the financial position of the Group is included in the external facilitator to assist this process every three years.
Strategic Report on pages 5 to 91.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 101 GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION The Board uses it to present a full assessment of the Risk Assessment Groups position and prospects, its business model, It is the responsibility of the Board to establish the risk and its strategy for delivering that model.
The directors framework within which the Group operates.
The Board and responsibilities for the financial statements are described on the Executive Committee review the risk register twice and page 132. the risk appetite once in each year.
Members of the Audit Going Concern Committee also receive reports of Internal Audit reviews.
If appropriate, these reports include recommendations After reviewing the Groups forecasts and risk assessments for improvement in controls or for the management and making other enquiries, the Directors have formed a of those risks.
Measures to integrate risk management judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, processes into the Groups operations, to extend awareness that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and of the importance of risk management and to ensure the Company have adequate resources to continue in that recommended improvements are implemented, are operational existence for 12 months from the date of signing regularly reviewed and refreshed.
this Annual Report and Accounts.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the As part of its viability review, the outcome of which is set out financial statements.
on page 63, the Board considered the principal risks and uncertainties and mitigating factors set out on pages 65 to In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered: 69.
The Groups cash flow forecasts and revenue projections Senior executives and managers are asked, each year, to confirm the adequacy of internal controls in their areas Reasonably possible changes in trading performance of responsibility, identify any control weaknesses, and to confirm the accuracy and completeness of information T he committed facilities available to the Group and the given to the directors and to the external auditors.. covenants thereon In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has T he Groups robust policy towards liquidity and cash carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness flow management of the system of internal control and risk management, T he Group managements ability to successfully manage during the year and up until the date of approval of this the principal risks and uncertainties outlined on pages Annual Report.
65 to 69 during periods of uncertain economic outlook Audit Committee and Auditors and challenging macro-economic conditions The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting Internal Control of four independent non-executive directors.
Its key The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal responsibilities and a description of its work in 2015 are control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In the design contained in its report, which is set out on pages 104 to 108. of the system of internal control, consideration has been given to the significant risks to the business, the probability 4.
Remuneration of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost The Board has established a Remuneration Committee effective means of controlling them.
The threat posed by consisting of the Chairman and three independent nonthose risks, and any perceived change in that threat, is executive directors.
Its responsibilities include remuneration reviewed half yearly by both the Executive Committee and policy, a review of the performance of executive directors the Board.
The system manages rather than eliminates risk prior to determining their remuneration and the approval of and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, incentive arrangements, including performance criteria.
The assurance against material misstatement or loss.
remuneration of the non-executive directors other than the The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control Chairman is determined by the Chairman and the executive is delegated to Executive Directors and senior management, directors and Remuneration Committee determines the but the Audit Committee discuss internal controls on a Chairmans fee.
No director plays a part in the discussion regular basis.
The system of internal controls is reviewed by about his or her own remuneration.
the Board in a process that accords with the FRC Guidance The Committees key responsibilities and a description of its Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial & work in 2015 are contained in its report, which is set out on Business Reporting.
102 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION 5.
Relations with Shareholders The Boards Fair, Balanced and Understandable Declaration The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private investors and responds At the board meeting during which the Groups results for promptly to all enquiries received.
Each year, the Company the year were presented by the Chief Executive and the reviews its strategy for engaging with shareholders.
In 2015, Chief Financial Officer, the Board also considered whether the Executive Directors and I, either separately or together, the annual report and accounts, when taken as a whole, attended a large number of meetings with analysts, and with present a fair, balanced and understandable overview of the shareholders.
After: In 2015 the Group held two investor briefing events, both Hearing from the Executive Directors of which were attended by more than 50 investors, equity analysts and debt providers.
These events provided an Receiving a r eport from the Chairman of the Audit overview of the Groups approach to property and supply Committee on that Committees meeting to discuss chain.
Copies of the presentations are available in the the preparation and content of the year-end financial investor relations section of the Groups website at statements and the audit conducted upon them www.
The Board is provided regular Discussing the contents of the Ann ual Report updates on discussion with shareholders and equity and Accounts analysts.
In addition, reports about the Company published by equity analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
The Board concluded that the annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and accordingly the The Group makes the Senior Independent Director Directors declaration to that effect can be found in the available as a direct contact for investors and shareholders, Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 132.. if they wish.
However, no meetings have in fact taken place between the Companys investors and the Senior Corporate Governance Compliance Independent Director due to lack of appetite for such meetings among the investors, and accordingly the Statement Company has not complied with provision E. 1.1 of the I am pleased to report that the Board considers that the Code in this respect.
As regards governance issues, as Company has complied throughout the year ended Chairman I aim to meet with major shareholders shortly 31 December 2015 with the provisions set out in the Code after the previous years Annual General Meeting.
These save that for the reason described in section 5 on this page.
meetings are deliberately timed early in the year so that the Board can consider and respond to shareholder concerns The Senior Independent Director has not proactively well in advance of the following years annual report and met with Investors: but has made himself fully available shareholder meeting.
I normally contact the Groups 20 for meetings should investors request them.
largest shareholders to ensure the widest consultation possible and particularly, given market volatility, to ensure Robert Walker that the views of any shareholder which substantially Chairman increases its stake during the year have been fully taken into 18 March 2016 account.
In 2015 few shareholders chose to engage, on the basis that they had no governance concerns.
The Boards view is that Group would always prefer to have a regular annual discussion.
As well as sending the annual report to shareholders, during the year, the Group published its interim results on its website and issued two trading updates.
Shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all directors are available for questions and a short business presentation takes place.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution.
I announce the numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution at the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and these numbers are subsequently published on the Companys website.
