GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder As chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to report Furthermore, management have been undertaking work to below on the work of the Committee in 2015.
This year saw improve the current control environment and this work will the appointment to the Committee of Coline McConville on continue in 2016 with the Audit Committee appraised of 1 February increasing the number of members to four.
It is progress through the year.
a committee with strong experience in finance matters and I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer corporate governance as can be seen from the biographies any questions about the work of the Committee.
Ruth Anderson I said in my 2014 report that the Committee would tender Chairman, Audit Committee the contract for external audit services.
The tender was 18 March 2016 completed in the first quarter following a comprehensive process, with the decision to recommend appointing KPMG LLP in place of Deloitte LLP who had worked with the Company for more than 30 years.
I would like to record the thanks of the Committee for their service over so many years.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Internal Audit during the year.
This comprised gathering views of stakeholders, reviewing the quality of the audit workplan and of internal audit reviews as well as the recommendations to management.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment.
The Groups control framework has developed over many years and there are a significant number of systems replacements underway.
Given the level of change the Audit Committee has tasked Internal Audit to take a more active role in reviewing these programmes.
104 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION Role of the Audit Committee Work of the Committee The Committees full terms of reference, which are reviewed At the board meeting following each committee meeting, I annually and were updated in February 2016, are available report to the Board on the work of the Committee, outlining on the Groups website www.
co. uk, or on key matters and making appropriate recommendations.
request to the Company Secretary General Counsel.
The Audit Committee adheres to an annual work plan in order to fully discharge its obligations.
This work plan is Membership and Attendance reviewed by the Committee to ensure that it encompasses I was chairman of the Committee throughout the year.
all issues required to be considered by the Committee Christopher Rogers was a member of the Committee including the effectiveness of the Committee itself, of throughout 2015 as was John Rogers.
During the year, the internal audit and the external auditors.
Committee was also joined by Coline McConville, effective The Committee gives due consideration to the annual from her appointment to the Board on 1 February 2015. report and financial statements and preliminary results announcements prepared by management and associated All members of the Committee are considered to press releases issued at the half year and year end.
The be independent and have considerable financial and Committee also review the Groups systems of internal commercial experience gained through a variety of control, the internal audit plan and tax strategy corporate and professional appointments.
considers that John Rogers, Christopher Rogers and I have the recent and relevant financial experience required by the In addition, there are a number of standing agenda items UK Corporate Governance Code see also the board profiles where at each meeting the Committee reviews: on pages 94 to 96.
The Deputy Company Secretary was secretary to the Committee throughout 2015.
Internal audit and risk reports The Committee held four formal meetings during 2015 Whistleblowing, fraud and bribery and as noted below, one additional meeting to discuss Pr ogress on implementing recommendations arising accounting judgements in respect of the 2015 year end from internal and external audit work accounts.
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 100.
The Group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief In addition to attending the Audit Committee meetings, Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of during the year the Committee members met with Internal Audit and the external auditor also attended most operational and finance team members.
At each meeting attended, the external auditor The Audit Committee reviewed papers from the Groups and the Head of Internal Audit were given the opportunity to management team and from the Groups Auditors that discuss with the Committee any matters which they wished provided details of the significant financial reporting to raise without the presence of management.
In addition, estimates and judgements made during the preparation and during the year, there were a number of meetings between presentation of the Groups interim and annual accounts.
the Chairman of the Committee and the Head of Internal Audit and between the Chairman of the Committee and the I am satisfied that the Committee received sufficient, external auditors, without management being present.
reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
In addition to its formally scheduled meetings the Committee also met in December specifically to give preliminary consideration to accounting judgements in relation to the 2015 financial statements.
As noted above, the Committee also completed a competitive tender for the provision of external audit services involving three firms including the incumbent auditor Deloitte LLP, which resulted in the recommendation to the shareholders at the AGM that KPMG LLP be appointed.
On behalf of shareholders I would like to thank Deloitte LLP for the service they have provided to the Audit Committee and the Board during their significant time as external auditors to the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 105 GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION Significant Issues Related to the Financial Statements The table below sets out the key judgement areas associated sought clarification where necessary.
It has reviewed and with the Groups financial statements for the year-ended discussed any internal audit reports in respect of the matters 31 December 2015 that were considered by the Audit under consideration and the Committee also received a Committee.
In reaching its conclusions, set out in more report from the external auditors on the work undertaken detail below, the Committee has considered papers and to arrive at the conclusions set out in their audit report on explanations given by management, discussed each matter pages 137 to 139 and had the opportunity to discuss it with in detail, challenged assumptions and judgements made and them in depth.
Matter Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors Considered and Conclusion Reached Carrying The Group balance sheet contains a significant value of The cash flow forecasts used for impairment considerations are value of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with historical prepared from the strategic business plans presented to, and approved goodwill and acquisitions.
The Directors are required to determine annually by, the Board of Directors annually.
intangible whether those assets have suffered any impairment.
They Management presented the Committee with papers setting out the assets do so by comparing the present value of future cash flows results of the work done, the assumptions made and the conclusions for each cash generating unit with the carrying value of its reached.
They explained to the Committee how the cash flow and goodwill and other intangible assets.
discount rate calculations were prepared, the key assumptions and The calculations undertaken to help arrive at a conclusion judgements that were made, how sensitive those cash flows were incorporate a consideration of the risks associated with each to changes in the key assumptions and how a deterioration in the cash generating unit and are based upon forecasts of their performance of the contract plumbing & heating business, PTS, and long term future cash flows, which by their nature require wholesale distribution business, F & P, and a weak outlook for these judgement to be exercised and are subject to considerable businesses respective markets had resulted in an impairment of 141m uncertainty.
being made against the carrying value of goodwill in respect of PTS and F & P. After reviewing managements papers, and obtaining further explanation where necessary the Committee concluded that management had taken a consistent, balanced and reasoned approach to preparing its calculations and that the judgements made were acceptable.
Furthermore, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to impair the goodwill and other intangible assets associated with the PTS and F&P businesses.
The Committee considered there was no indication of impairment in any other business.
Accounting The terms of supplier agreements result in a significant During the year the Committee discussed reports presented by for rebate value of Supplier Income being received by the Group.
The management about the progress of improvements to systems, controls income and calculation of the value receivable and the value deferred into and processes and enhancements to calculation methodologies applied.
fixed priced stock is complicated due to the number, nature and structure It also received reports that enabled it to monitor supplier income discounts of the agreements in place.
collection rates and compare them with the prior year and it discussed the Groups adherence to its accounting policies and procedures.
However, only two agreements are not co-terminous with the Groups accounting year end.
Furthermore approximately A summary update of the year-end position was given to the 80% of amounts due to the Group are received during the Committee at the meeting held to consider the year-end results course of the year.
Therefore the key judgements relate to The Committee concluded that the controls over recognising and the calculation of the total value of rebates and fixed price recovering Supplier Income were appropriate and that the values discounts still to be received at the year-end and the value of included in the financial statements were appropriate.
fixed price discounts and rebates to be set against the gross value of inventory in the balance sheet.
Inventory To meet customer expectations the Group carries a wide range Management presented a paper to the Committee that enabled valuation of stock in over 2,000 locations.
Stock should be included in it to review, question and understand how stock is controlled and the balance sheet at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
accounted for throughout the Group.
It incorporated both qualitative The determination of cost is complicated when rebate and and quantitative information such that the Committee could understand fixed priced discount agreements are in place see above.
how management determined that stock was in existence, owned by the Furthermore, determining the net realisable value of the wide Group, valued appropriately and recorded in completeness.
The paper range of products held in many locations requires judgement included how provisions were determined to ensure that stock was held to be applied.
at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The Committee concluded that stock was fairly stated.
106 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION Internal Audit Risk Management and Internal Controls In 2015 internal audit continued to focus on reviewing The Groups control framework has developed over many financial controls in areas which the Audit Committee years and there are a significant number of systems considered of higher risk alongside its cyclical plan to replacements underway.
Given the level of change the review higher risk areas.
More emphasis was also placed Audit Committee has tasked Internal Audit to take a more on auditing change programmes to provide additional active role in reviewing these programmes.
Furthermore, programme assurance given the considerable changes management have been undertaking work to improve the underway in the Group.
current control environment and this work will continue in 2016 with the Audit Committee appraised of progress Resources continued to be strengthened through through the year.
recruitment to the internal audit team, and training of high calibre individuals, and the use of co-source partners During the year the Board reviewed the risk management to provide assurance in specialist areas such as IT, data framework.
The Committee reviewed the Groups protection, tax and treasury operations.
internal financial controls and its internal control and risk management systems in February 2016.
Additionally the Committee agreed that a trial be commenced in the Contracts division to evaluate the External Auditor effectiveness of moving branch and store compliance teams under the control of the Division.
No changes are KPMG LLP is a leading international audit partnership, planned to the reporting line of the internal audit team.
and was first appointed at the 2015 AGM following a competitive tender exercise conducted during late 2014 Further enhancements to the work of internal audit were and early 2015.
There are no contractual restrictions on the delivered through the implementation of a new system Group with regard to their appointment.
In accordance with to record and monitor all active recommendations that current professional standards, the partner responsible for management agreed to implement which: the audit will change every 5 years.
Enab les management to track the ageing of actions and During the year the Committee reviewed the arrangements provide updates thereon for transitioning the audit to KPMG.
It also undertook the following in respect of the external auditor: The documentation of all audit findings Reviewed the policy on engagement of the external Pr ovides management with a single point of reference for auditor for non-audit work, as referred to below, and the all reviews completed by branch compliance teams policy on the employment of anyone previously employed by the external auditor At each Committee meeting reports issued by internal audit were considered.
The Committee continued to review the Reviewed the plans presented by the external auditor speed at which recommendations agreed by management for conduct of the year-end audit and half-year review were implemented during the year.
All actions, which including the related risk analyses, terms of engagement, were considered to be of high or significant importance fees and letters of representation by internal audit were, for the first time, subject to further review by the internal audit team prior to being validated as Confirmed the effectiveness, independence, and complete by management.
objectivity of the external auditor, taking into account information and written assurances provided by KPMG The risk management framework was reviewed in the year LLP, on its quality and independence controls, and its and risk register updated by the Board.
The updated risk ethical standards register provided a key input into the internal audit plan for 2016 which was agreed by the Committee in The Committee specifically discussed the effectiveness November 2015. of the external audit process at its meetings in February and November 2015 and again at its meeting in February The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness 2016.
In each case the Committee obtained input from of the internal audit function.
In particular the Committee considered the audit plan for 2015 and the audit of the 2015 report and accounts, and their identification of risk areas.
The Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit process.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 107 GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION Independence and Objectivity General Principle One of the Committees responsibilities is to ensure The external auditors should only be chosen to carry out compliance with the Boards policy in respect of services non-audit work where its nature makes it more effective provided by, and fees paid to, the external auditor.
There for the work to be carried out by auditors who have existing has been no change to this policy, which is summarised knowledge of the Group.
The external auditors should not below and is included on the Groups website at provide non-audit services where it might impair their www.
independence or objectivity in carrying out the audit.
Areas of Work Permitted Work Prohibited Work AUDIT RELATED NON-AUDIT RELATED Activities required by law or legislation Tax advisory services Book-keeping and work related to the to be undertaken by the Auditors preparation of accounting records Public reporting on investment Reviews of interim financial information circulars and similar documents Financial information system design or implementation Managed service reports to housing Private reporting to sponsors and associations and local authorities similar parties in connection with Appraisal and valuation services investment circulars and similar Internal audit services documents Actuarial services Forensic work Recruitment services Secondment of staff to a supervisory or management position Provision of investment advice, broking or legal services auditors for audit-related work, and 129,000 2014: Value of Work 111,000 previous auditors for non-audit work.
Non-audit services require approval as follows: The principal items of non-audit fees relate to the interim 5,000 to 25,000 Chief Financial Officer review and the provision and maintenance of the Groups employee benefits system, MyPerks.
In view of KPMGs 25, 000 to 50,000 Chief Financial Officer detailed understanding of the Groups operations and and Committee Chairman accounting policies, and being mindful of future Auditor reporting obligations, the Audit Committee decided that 50, 000 Chief Financial Officer and Committee it was appropriate for KPMG to provide these services.
In Chairman following a competitive tender addition, 0.8m 2014: 1.4m of fees were paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work, including advice to the Formal approval by the Committee is also required if the Remuneration Committee.
aggregated level of forecast fees for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the statutory audit fee.
The Committee understands that the total fees paid by the Group to KPMG in 2015 amount to less than 0.007% Reporting of KPMGs UK fee income and considers that the Auditors independence and objectivity has not been impaired by the The Chief Financial Officer reports twice annually to the non-audit fees paid to it in 2015.
Committee on fees for non-audit services payable to the auditors.
Ruth Anderson Chairman, Audit Committee As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year the 18 March 2016 Auditors were paid 520,000 2014: 435,000 previous 108 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION Stephen Bushby - F & P, Bedford ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 109
