GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Fellow Shareholder A few words of introduction to summarise the work of the Nominations Committee during the past year.
During 2015, the Nominations Committee held only one meeting.
This was considerably fewer than in past years, when the Committee was heavily involved in planning and executing Board executive and non-executive succession.
The final step in this process was the appointment to the Board of Coline McConville in February as a non-executive director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee: the latter to succeed Andrew Simon who retired from the Board in October 2015.
As a result, the Board is now fully fit for the future, with an appropriate blend of skills in terms of age, gender, past versus current experience and retail versus merchanting experience.
We now have a settled Board.
The purpose of the Committees meeting in 2015 was to review the pipeline of executive talent below the Board, future executive succession plans at that level, and the Groups provision of appropriate training and development programmes.
The Committee plans to hold at least three meetings during 2016.
We will continue to put priority time against executive pipeline development, but also lay the groundwork and process for more long-term board succession planning.
126 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION The Nominations Committee recommended and the Role Board agreed that Chris Rogers be appointed as Senior The Committees principal responsibility is to ensure that Independent Director with effect from 1 November 2015. the Board comprises individuals with the most appropriate Andrew was succeeded as Remuneration Committee balance of experience, skills and knowledge to help develop chairman by Coline McConville and as Stay Safe and support the Company strategy.
In order to achieve Committee chairman by Pete Redfern.
this, the Committee requires procedures to be in place that The individuals involved did not participate in discussions enable the nomination, selection and succession of the about their appointments.
most capable directors and senior executives.
The Committee is also responsible for considering, and 2016 Objectives making recommendations to the Board on succession To look further ahead to the future retirement of the current planning for directors and other senior executives: in Chief Executive, and the current Chairman and to lay out a this sense the Nominations Committee undertakes a clear process for board and senior executive succession.
The Nominations Committee comprises all the NonBoard Diversity executive Directors and is chaired by me other than when It is the Groups firm belief that having executives and it is dealing with matters in relation to me or the non-executives on the Board that are diverse in age, chairmanship of the Company.
The Chief Executive, Chief experience, nationality or gender, provides us with different Financial Officer and Group HR Director are invited to attend perspectives.
This does not just make good commercial and when appropriate.
business sense, but it is good for the Groups colleagues and its customers as well.
Election of Directors In addition, the Group has a clear preference for nonA rigorous selection process precedes the appointment of executives of whatever background, who have demonstrated all directors by the Board, and their recommendation by the success as CFOs or CEOs.
As a result, job specifications, search processes and The performance of each director, the Board and each selection criteria are focused on appointing candidates that Committee is reviewed annually as part of the Board not only meet the criteria for the role, but who could also evaluation process and I am pleased to confirm that the offer different perspectives.
Therefore, diversity, including Board recommends the election and re-election of all gender diversity, is actively considered, and will continue directors who are standing for re-election at the Groups to be so.
The Board is committed to appointing the best 2016 AGM.
people and ensuring all employees are able to develop their careers within the Group and therefore do not believe it is Activities in 2015 appropriate to set targets in this area.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference At the most senior director manager level the Group has and met once during the year.
The principal matter two female board directors 25%.
The Group currently also discussed at the meeting was a review of the senior talent has two women on its operating executive 16.66%.
Further below the Board and the organisation and succession plans details of the Groups workforce diversity are set out in the for senior leadership roles.
Capturing the way things are done around here section on Furthermore, a meeting of the Non-executive directors, pages 70 to 77. without me being present, led by the Senior Independent I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer Director Andrew Simon, was held to conduct a review of my any questions about the work of the Committee.
performance as Chairman in connection with the renewal of my service contract at its sixth anniversary.
Robert Walker Chairman Board Succession 18 March 2016 As mentioned in my introductory note above, the recruitment of new non-executive directors was completed with the appointment of Coline McConville with effect from 1 February 2015, and Andrew Simon retired from the Board after over nine years service on 31 October 2015.
Andrew was chairman of the Remuneration and Stay Safe Committees and since August 2014 Senior Independent Director.
