Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement Dear Shareholder The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for its standards of corporate governance and is committed to promoting these throughout UBM.
Our approach to governance underpins our ability to deliver our strategy and create long-term shareholder value.
From a governance perspective we are pleased with our progress this year.
We have embedded our Code of Business Conduct, Doing Business at As UBMs shares are listed on the London Gender UBM.
This Code sets out the principles Stock Exchange, we are required to comply which govern the way in which our with the new standards contained within employees apply UBMs values across the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK our global operations.
Corporate Governance Code the Code published in September 2014 and effective 40% 2015 was an important year for our 2015 financial year.
The Code strategically for UBM and the Board can be found on the FRCs website: took a significant role in overseeing www.
60% the Advanstar acquisition, its The key changes introduced by the integration and the proposal to dispose updated Code relate to going concern, the of PR Newswire.
Viability Statement and other internal control and risk management provisions.
Male As we continue to implement the Female Events First strategy, the Board is The following pages outline how the Board focused on delivering the key applies the principles of the Code in a way objectives in a manner that that contributes to the effectiveness of its Tenure promotes the high standards of operation.
We complied with all provisions corporate governance that our of the Code during 2015. shareholders expect.
10% 20% 50% 20% 0-2 years 3-5 years 6-8 years 9 years Dame Helen Alexander Chairman 52 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Leadership Board Chairman Board and Committee structure Executive Directors The Board has overall responsibility to Non-Executive Directors shareholders for the management and governance of UBM in a manner that is most likely to promote the success of the Audit Committee Company.
The primary function of the Chairman Board is to set and oversee the effective Non-Executive Directors implementation of the Groups strategy and provide leadership within a framework of Nominations Committee prudent and effective controls.
Chairman Non-Executive Directors The Board is assisted in fulfilling its responsibilities by three principal Committees: Remuneration Committee the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Chairman Committees.
The terms of reference for Non-Executive Directors each of the Committees may be viewed on UBMs website www.
com and Executive Committee Disclosure Committee copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary, who acts as secretary to all the CEO CEO Board Committees.
In addition, the CFO CFO Executive Committee provides advice to Divisional CEOs Company Secretary the CEO on operational and strategic Company Secretary Head of Investor Relations and decisions and reviews areas such as Global EVP, UBM Events Corporate Communications strategy implementation, operational and Group CIO financial performance, budget and risk in Group HR Director relation to the Group as a whole.
The Disclosure Committee determines the disclosure treatment of material information.
Analogous Finance Year Sector Digital Emerging Sitting Capital Operational Consumer People and Nationality appointed Content Plc NED Technology US Markets Executive Markets experience marketing transformation Dame Helen Alexander 2012 Chair Tim Cobbold 2014 CEO Marina Wyatt 2015 CFO Alan Gillespie Senior Independent 2008 Director Pradeep Kar 2006 Non-Executive Director Greg Lock 2010 Non-Executive Director John McConnell 2014 Non-Executive Director Mary McDowell 2014 Non-Executive Director Terry Neill 2009 Non-Executive Director Trynka Shineman 2016 Non-Executive Director UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Robert Gray stepped down as Group CFO and as a Director of the the strength of his engagement and challenge in Board Company on 31 July 2015.
Marina Wyatt was appointed as a discussions Director and Group CFO on 2 September 2015. his remuneration, which is not considered excessive in the context of Non-Executive Directors fees paid in FTSE 250 Jonathan Newcomb stepped down from the Board with effect from companies 31 December 2015. his shareholding, which is not considered substantial his disclosed interests, which are not thought to conflict with his It was announced on 18 February 2016, that Trynka Shineman will role as a Non-Executive Director join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2016.
Trynka will bring to the Board international experience in online Non-Executive Directors appointments are reviewed every three marketing to small and medium-sized businesses.
All Directors appointments are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Board benefits from a wide range of experience of its NonExecutive Directors, as shown on page 53.
More information about the knowledge, skills and experience of our Board can be found in their individual biographies on pages 48 and We regularly review the independence of our Non-Executive 49 and in the experience framework on page 53.
Directors, with primary regard to the personal qualities demonstrated by each Director, particularly their judgement and We consider that clarity of the respective roles and responsibilities thinking and the level of engagement and challenge that they of Board members is an important element in enabling the Board provide in Board and Committee discussions.
We also take to function effectively.
The key relationship is that of the Chairman account of the factors specifically identified in section B.
1.1 of the and CEO and, in accordance with the Code, a clear written division Code as potentially relevant in determining independence.
We of their respective roles exists and has been approved by the consider all our Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
Pradeep Kar has served on the Board for over nine years, having A process is in place to address possible conflicts of interest of been a Non-Executive Director since August 2006.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts that arise consider that he is independent having taken into account several are required to be disclosed at the next Board meeting for factors including: consideration and, if appropriate, approved by relevant Board members.
No conflicts of interest were disclosed during 2015.
Division of responsibilities Chairman CEO The effective running of the Board.
She spends an average of two days per week Running the Groups business, within the authority limits delegated to him by carrying out her responsibilities, but takes no part in the day-to-day running of the the Board business Leading the Board effectively to ensure that there are sufficient meetings, agenda Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial items are appropriate and there is adequate time for discussion objectives Ensuring that Directors are able to contribute fully to Board discussions and that Recommending an annual budget for Board approval and ensuring its their skills are utilised to best effect achievement In conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensuring compliance with the Identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals Boards approved procedures and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance Providing a sounding board for the CEO on key business issues Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group Overseeing the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, its Developing and making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee Committees and individual Directors on remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other senior management Identifying development needs for the Board and Directors and ensuring that Chairing the Executive Committee in the day-to-day running of the Groups Directors update their skills and knowledge to enable them to carry out their business responsibilities Maintaining contact with major shareholders to understand their issues and Leading the communication programme with shareholders and ensuring the concerns: ensuring that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole timely and accurate disclosure of information to the market Chairing the Nominations Committee and leading the succession planning process Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Ensuring that the views of each of the Non-Executive Directors are given due Challenging and agreeing the Groups strategy with senior management and consideration and facilitating communication between the Non-Executive assessing performance against the strategy Directors and the Chairman Holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman being Meeting with the Chairman without Executive Directors being present present to review the Chairmans performance Meeting with the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance and other matters 54 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements How the Board operates Attendance at Board and Committee meetings in 2015 A number of processes are in place that help the Board perform as Scheduled Unscheduled effectively as possible.
There is a formal schedule of matters to be Board Board meetings Percentage meetings Percentage considered by the Board which is reviewed annually.
Name of Director attended attended attended attended Chairman Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the Executive Dame Helen Alexander 6 6 100% 4 4 100% Directors, the Executive Committee and to divisional boards under formally documented authorities.
Executive Directors Tim Cobbold 6 6 100% 3 4 75% We have an established agenda of topics to be considered at 1 Marina Wyatt 3 3 100% 2 2 100% Board meetings.
Regular updates are provided on UBMs finances, 2 Robert Gray 3 3 100% 2 2 100% operations, strategy and development.
Standing items include written reports from the CEO, CFO and Company Secretary, and Non-Executive Directors from Corporate Communications and Investor Relations.
The Alan Gillespie 5 6 83% 3 4 75% inclusion of a forward planner in each Board pack provides an Pradeep Kar 6 6 100% 4 4 100% overview of these and other matters which are scheduled for Greg Lock 6 6 100% 4 4 100% discussion over the course of the financial year.
John McConnell 6 6 100% 3 4 75% Mary McDowell 6 6 100% 3 4 75% Presentations are made by Executive Directors and by divisional Terry Neill 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 3 6 6 100% 4 4 100% management and other senior executives on specific issues.
Jonathan Newcomb 4 Trynka Shineman Guidelines have been established for such presentations to ensure that the Board receives adequate information and has sufficient time for debate and challenge.
1 Appointed on 2 September 2015 2 Resigned on 31 July 2015 3 Resigned on 31 December 2015 Papers for Board and Committee meetings are circulated at least 4 Appointed with effect from 1 March 2016 six days before the relevant meeting to give Directors adequate time to review them before the meeting.
Several Board meetings were unscheduled in 2015 and called at short notice in connection with the sale of PR Newswire.
Management accounts are circulated to Directors on a monthly Consequently, where Directors were not able to attend these basis and other information is distributed between meetings as unscheduled meetings, this was entirely due to prior business appropriate.
Non-attendance at any Committee meeting was also due to prior business commitments.
In each case, where the Board discussions are held in an atmosphere of transparency, Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee openness and mutual respect with adequate time allowed for meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting debate and challenge.
Behaviour and tone in the boardroom is and provided comments directly to the Chairman or Committee important for issues to be discussed openly and with supportive Chairman, as appropriate.
Board meetings are generally held at UBMs London office.
The The Board has six scheduled meetings per annum and meetings Board also tries to meet regularly at one of the overseas business may be convened at other times as and when necessary.
In 2015, locations and meets with employees and senior management.
ten Board meetings were held in total.
Directors may seek independent professional advice in relation to their duties if they consider it appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who has primary responsibility for informing Directors of general developments which may be relevant to these responsibilities.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness The Boards responsibilities and its areas of focus in 2016 Activities Responsibilities during 2015 Plans 2016 Reviewed progress of Business Monitor compliance against Business Values Conduct programme and associated Conduct programmes including employee training related policies and procedures Reviewed progress against new Health & Safety framework Held two-day strategy meeting in May Continue to focus on delivery of Strategy and Operational focusing on Events First strategic Events First strategic objectives Performance objectives, planning and Review divisional business implementation performances Approved 2014 financial results and Approve financial results and Financial Statements dividend consider dividends as appropriate Approved 2015 half year results and interim dividend Approved amendments to 2015 Approve 2017 budget Annual Budget budget Approved 2016 budget Reviewed dividend policy Review dividend policy Dividend Policy Agreed to continue progressive dividend policy Completed annual risk review Approve risk appetite Risk Approved the new risk policy and Review Group risks and risk reporting new risk reporting process processes Approved the Viability Statement Review risks facing the business 56 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Activities Responsibilities during 2015 Plans 2016 Approved going concern review Monitor the effectiveness of the Internal Controls Groups risk management and Monitored the effectiveness of the internal control systems Groups risk management and internal control systems Reviewed corporate governance compliance Reviewed UBMs treasury and tax policies Board and Committee meetings to Review acquisition and disposal Acquisitions and Disposals approve PR Newswire disposal pipeline Completed post-acquisition reviews Complete scheduled post-acquisition reviews Monitored the integration of Advanstar Continue to oversee Advanstar integration Reviewed other M&A opportunities M&A process reviews New CFO appointed Succession planning for Executive Succession Planning Director and Non-Executive Director New Non-Executive Director roles as required appointed to succeed retiring Non-Executive Director Review Board capabilities requirement Succession planning for Executive Review Group succession planning Director and Non-Executive Director roles External Board and Committee Review findings from 2015 Board and Effectiveness Review effectiveness evaluation completed Committee evaluation Reviewed the findings from 2014 Consider 2016 Board and Committee Board and Committee evaluation performance and evaluation UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Board performance and evaluation 2014: The 2014 evaluation was carried out using an online structured questionnaire with feedback provided to Directors 2015: In accordance with the principles of the Code, an external in February 2015.
An external consultancy, Lintstock, evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and administered the process and compiled the feedback report.
individual Directors has been carried out by Independent Audit The Board evaluation questionnaire included specific questions Limited Independent Audit.
Independent Audit have over ten on the acquisition of Advanstar, the rights issue process, the years of experience of conducting board and committee development of the Events First strategy and the Boards visit effectiveness reviews but has not previously advised the to the US in October 2014 to review the UBM Americas Company, has no other connections with the Company and was business and its integration plan.
Each of the top priorities appointed following pitches from external providers.
identified in the evaluation carried out at the end of 2014 were addressed during the year.
Specifically, the following matters The evaluation included interviews with each Director, a are highlighted below.
thorough review of Board and Committee documents and attendance at a Board meeting as an observer.
The review considered: The skills, experience and attributes of the Board Board leadership, culture, dynamics and contributions The Boards role in the governance structure Board information and decision-making Use of time and the Boards focus The achievement of effective outcomes The output of the evaluation will be reported in the 2016 Annual Report.
Key priorities for the Board in 2015 Actions taken Monitor the Events First strategy implementation The Board has received regular updates on the implementation of the strategy.
A strategy delivery day took place in May 2015 and a Strategy Dashboard is now included as part of the CEOs report at each Board meeting.
Review the composition of the Board to maintain the appropriate The Board capabilities matrix, set out on page 53, was reviewed by the breadth of skills and experience Nominations Committee to ensure the skill sets necessary to meet the needs of the organisation in the future are identified.
The Committee looked at the size of the Board, length of tenure of the Directors and gender diversity.
Rotation of Directors, leading to the retirement of Jonathan Newcomb and the appointment of Trynka Shineman.
From a gender diversity perspective, Board composition now stands at 40% female representation which is above the target percentage level laid down in the Davies Report.
Review the Groups risk management and internal controls together The Audit Committee reviewed the risk management, risk appetite and the with the risk reporting process new reporting requirements set out in the Code.
Changes have been made to the risk reporting process.
These include clearer presentation of the principal risks, the introduction of heat maps and graphical representations of risk appetite, risk management and assurance processes and mitigation.
Further details are included in the Risk Management section on page 33 and in the Audit Committee Report on page 61.
Increase attention on the role of the Executive Committee and the The Executive Committee participated in the strategy delivery day and there interaction between the Board and the Executive Committee members have been regular agenda topics involving individual Executive Committee members, both operational and functional, throughout the year.
The Board reviewed the operations carried out by the Executive Committee during the year, with renewed focus on the role and purpose of the Executive Committee and the parameters for the decisions the Committee will support or take.
Review senior management capability and depth to support The Board reviewed the Groups succession planning and talent management succession planning process in order to have in place the appropriate organisation and global leadership structure to deliver the Events First strategy.
Review the Groups M&A criteria A review of the existing M&A processes and how these might be improved is underway.
The Board has discussed the Groups M&A pipeline.
58 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Training and induction Accountability All Directors are offered the opportunity to further their professional development by attendance at seminars and briefings.
An Risk management and internal control induction process is in place for all Directors on appointment: this The Board is responsible for monitoring the Companys risk includes discussions with the Chairman and Executive Directors as management and internal control systems and has carried out a well as individual briefings and presentations from other Directors review of their effectiveness for 2015.
In this respect, the Board has and senior management on matters relating to UBMs businesses ensured that: and procedures.
The induction also includes meetings with UBMs The monitoring and review covers all material controls, including corporate brokers, external auditor and other external advisers.
financial, operational and compliance controls Diversity There is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating, and We strongly support the principle of improving gender balance managing the principal risks faced by the Company both at Board level and throughout our businesses, meeting the The systems have been in place for the year under review and target we set ourselves to achieve a 30% proportion of female up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and that these Directors by the end of 2015.
Further information about our policy systems accord with the FRC Guidance referred to below and our initiatives to improve gender and other diversity can be They are regularly reviewed by the Board found on page 29.
In accordance with the revised Code and the Financial Reporting Investor relations Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Shareholders are informed about the activities and progress of the Related Financial and Business Reporting, a review was carried Group through the Annual Report and interim management out of the Groups risk management processes including the risk statements.
Financial and other information about the Company is assessments which are integral to these processes.
As part of this published on its website, which has links to the websites of other process the Board has: businesses in UBM.
Received regular reports from management, supplemented The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major by detailed reports to the Audit Committee from Internal Audit institutional shareholders by means of a scheduled programme of which have been shared with the Board on the performance meetings, which are generally undertaken by the CEO and CFO.
of the businesses in relation to financial and IT controls and governance practices The Chairman has a programme of ongoing engagement with Brought together the compliance and regulatory functions to shareholders and is available at all times for any discussion that provide a more cohesive and comprehensive overview of risks shareholders seek.
During 2015, the Chairman held seven across the Group and their management.
This has included the governance meetings with institutional shareholders.
The establishment of a dedicated Risk function to support the Remuneration Committee Chairman, Greg Lock, also consults with businesses in implementing the Group risk management shareholders on remuneration matters as appropriate.
Greg wrote processes, leading the biannual risk review and preparing the to leading shareholders to provide advance notification concerning new Group-wide risk policy certain disclosures made in the Directors Remuneration Report In planning its annual programme, ensured that risk assessment relating to the absence of Dame Helen Alexander and Tim Cobbold is regularly addressed as part of the Boards activities.
These disclosures can be found on page 77.
Examples include the scheduling of post-acquisition reviews to assess actual performance against the original business case Analysts and brokers reports are made available to all Directors, and any resulting risk exposures, so that these can be captured who also receive feedback from investor meetings.
and applied in future and completing regular integration reviews to ensure the integration plans are being implemented and that The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation by targets are being achieved.
Where this is not the case that shareholders in the event that they have concerns which have not appropriate mitigation has been identified been dealt with by the Chairman.
No matters were raised during Approved enhanced policies and procedures governing the year.
compliance and regulatory matters including health & safety, business conduct and information security and promoted All shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where employee training on these matters.
The Board has reviewed they are able to ask questions of the Directors.
progress in each of these areas Voting at the Annual General Meeting takes place by poll and the Further information on how the Board has addressed its results are notified via a regulatory information service and responsibilities in respect of the Groups risk management displayed on the Companys website as soon as practicable processes, principal risks and its internal controls is set out in the following the meeting.
All resolutions proposed at the 2015 Annual Risk Management section on page 33 and in the Audit Committee General meeting were passed, with a majority exceeding 93% of report on page 61. votes cast.
The Board has concluded that there have been no significant failings or weaknesses in the risk management and internal control systems during the year.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
