STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT MANAGING RISKS AND UPHOLDING GOVERNANCE In 2015, Tullow overhauled its risk, assurance and performance management processes to better support the delivery of our strategic objectives.
MSP was the development of a new Integrated Management DEAR SHAREHOLDER, System IMS.
The IMS now holds all of Tullows consolidated In response to the 2014 amendments to the Corporate mandatory policies and standards in a single, integrated Governance Code the Code relating to risk management, online management system.
It represents a systematic long-term viability and remuneration, your Board believes way of putting our strategy and values into practice, and that we have taken appropriate steps to remain fully it provides a clear and consistent framework that sets compliant with the Code.
Our revised approach to risk out expectations and defines the controls and assurance management is discussed in this section of the report.
The necessary to ensure that our activities and associated risks long-term viability statement can be found on page 55.
The IMS was formally launched believe that our remuneration policy set out on page 92, in November 2015 and will continue to evolve and develop which was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014, during the course of 2016 and beyond.
A full review of our compliance with the Code and the Boards activities and performance against As part of the overhaul of risk management and assurance its objectives during the year can be found in the Directors processes, the Board approved a new policy and standard Report on pages 70 to 78. that defines an integrated top-down and bottom-up approach to identifying, assessing and managing  our policies and standards wide risks.
The governance and reporting of risks is now fully During 2015, the Board oversaw a major overhaul of Tullows embedded as part of the quarterly business reviews, forms risk, assurance and performance management processes a key element of the Groups performance management, as part of the Major Simplification Project MSP.
The key and informs decision-making about internal audit and objectives were to streamline and simplify decision-making, other assurance priorities.
The Board of Directors has to clarify roles and responsibilities, and to create clearer carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks accountabilities for enterprise risk management and the facing the Company, including those that would threaten delivery of our strategic objectives.
An important part of the BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Nominations EHS Committee Ethics & Remuneration Responsible for Committee Responsible for Compliance Committee ensuring our Ensures the monitoring and Committee Responsible for Financial balance of skills advising on the Responsible for determining and Statements give a and expertise of the Groups EHS promoting good agreeing the true and fair view of Board remains policies and ethical behaviour Executive Directors the business.
and ensuring remuneration the needs of the compliance with policy.
page 79 page 84 page 86 page 88 page 90 48 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 our business model, future performance, solvency and Safecall.
Concerns raised during exit interviews and via liquidity.
Details of the process and our principal risks Safecall are also investigated and any recommendations arising, for updates and improvements to our internal are on pages 52 to 63. processes and procedures, are applied across the Group.
Culture and ethical behaviour Notwithstanding these efforts, 19 members of our workforce The MSP, the new IMS, and the revised risk and assurance and sub-contractors left the Group and had their contracts terminated as a result of investigations carried out during framework are fully aligned with our core values of focusing the year.
Whilst it is clearly regrettable that such actions on results, entrepreneurial spirit, teamwork, integrity and should be necessary, they underscore Tullows commitment respect.
However, they will only become fully effective when to comply with our Code of Ethical Conduct.
they are thoroughly embedded within our operations and become simply part of the way we do business.
The Stakeholder engagement implementation of the MSP and IMS has therefore involved During 2015 we continued to engage with Governments, a high level of staff engagement and discussion.
Early international development agencies, international think indications that the new approach is gaining acceptance tanks, academia and civil society to identify and discuss and approval within the business are encouraging.
policy issues relevant to the sustainability of Tullows business model.
These initiatives have built upon established During 2015, as part of our ongoing monitoring efforts to themes of transparency, natural resource revenue improve our compliance processes, and to reflect best governance and capacity-building, as well as new initiatives practice and lessons learnt from internal investigations, seeking to better understand the relationship between we also updated a number of our IMS standards relating to resources-led economic growth and climate change in our ethics and compliance.
We replaced the existing executive countries of operation.
Tullow has sought to gain a better Compliance Committee with a formal Board Committee, understanding of the issues in order to develop a strategic chaired by Ann Grant, the Senior Independent Director.
The response that meets the requirements of our shareholders formation of this Committee underlines our commitment to and our broader responsibilities to other stakeholders.
uphold the highest standards of integrity and recognises that ethical behaviour, like safety, must be an area of constant We have continued to focus on the development of technical focus.
In November, the launch of our revised and improved and vocational training for the oil and gas industry in East Code of Ethical Conduct was accompanied by a CompanyAfrica by supporting the scoping stages of the Skills for wide communication campaign and training programme, Oil and Gas in Africa SOGA project, initiated by the UKs which will continue throughout 2016.
So far, approximately Department for International Development in Kenya and 40 per cent of employees and contractors attended fraud risk Uganda.
In Kenya, we also helped to establish the Turkana assessment workshops during the year, to raise awareness Focus Forum, which brings together industry, NGOs, of the risk and encourage early detection.
development partners and other bodies with the aim of coordinating the many initiatives that are under way to Tullows reputation as a fair, ethical and responsible manage the impact and to maximise the social and company is dependent upon our employees and contractors economic benefits arising from resources-led development behaviour and the values they exhibit in their day-to-day in the country.
Any member of staff, contractor or supplier can raise concerns about inappropriate behaviour via internal Simon Thompson channels or our independent, confidential reporting line, Chairman 9 February 2016 INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Frequency Board of Directors Eight times per year 12 members Five Executive Directors Seven non-executive Directors Five Board Committees Executive Directors Five Executive Directors Weekly run the business and are held accountable for its performance Operating Committee Executive Committee Weekly operations Includes the Chief Operating Officer, Includes the Executive Directors, meeting Business Delivery Team VPs, VP operational and functional VPs and Commercial & Finance and VP Senior Managers.
Focused on Monthly performance Organisation Strategy & Effectiveness performance management management Business Delivery Teams Agreed Group Day-to-day business Corporate functions and Business Units Shared Services delivery www.
com 49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 1 11 2 5 3 9 7 8 4 1 2 4 SIMON THOMPSON AIDAN HEAVEY GRAHAM MARTIN CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Simon Thompson age 56, British was Aidan Heavey age 62, Irish is the founder Graham Martin age 61, British is a solicitor appointed as a non-executive Director in of Tullow Oil and has been Chief Executive admitted in England and Wales and joined 2011 and as non-executive Chairman in Officer since 1985.
He has played a key Tullow as Legal and Commercial Director January 2012.
Simon worked for investment role in Tullows development as a leading in 1997.
Graham served as Tullows General banks N M Rothschild and S. G. Warburg independent oil and gas exploration and Counsel from 2004 to 2013 and as Company before joining the Anglo American group production group.
Graham has in 1995, where he held a number of senior over 30 years experience in international positions and became an Executive Director 3 corporate and energy transactions.
Since leaving Anglo American, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Graham retired as Company Secretary he has served as a non-executive Director Ian Springett age 58, British is a in December 2015.
He will retire as an of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, AngloGold Chartered Accountant and was appointed Executive Director and leave the Company Ashanti Ltd, Newmont Mining Corporation to the Board of Directors in 2008.
Prior following the Annual General Meeting on and Sandvik AB.
to joining Tullow, Ian worked at BP for 28 April 2016.
23 years where he gained extensive Committee membership 5 international oil and gas experience.
Ian Nominations Committee Chair, PAUL McDADE has held a number of senior positions at Remuneration Committee and CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER BP, including Vice-President of BP Finance, EHS Committee.
Paul McDade age 53, British was appointed CFO for the United States and also served to the Board of Directors in 2006, having Other directorships and offices as a Business Unit Leader in Alaska.
Paul was appointed Simon is Chairman of 3i Group plc and Chief Operating Officer following the Energy Committee membership a non-executive Director of Rio Tinto plc.
Africa acquisition in 2004, having previously Ethics and Compliance Committee.
managed Tullows UK gas business.
An engineer with over 25 years experience, Paul has worked in various operational, commercial and management roles with Conoco, Lasmo and ERC.
He has broad international experience having worked in the UK North Sea, Latin America, Africa and South East Asia.
Paul holds degrees in Civil Engineering and Petroleum Engineering.
50 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Committee membership Committee membership Ethics and Compliance Committee Chair, EHS Committee Chair, Audit Committee and Audit Committee, Nominations Committee.
Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
Other directorships and offices Ann is a Board member of the Overseas Other directorships and offices Development Institute and a council Anne is a non-executive Director of Aker member of the London School of Hygiene Solutions ASA Norway and is an oil and and Tropical Medicine as well as the Rift gas advisor to the Government of the Valley Institute.
She also chairs the Serious Falkland Islands.
11 JEREMY WILSON 8 TUTU AGYARE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Jeremy Wilson age 51, British was Tutu Agyare age 53, Ghanaian was appointed as a non-executive Director in 10 12 appointed as a non-executive Director in October 2013 following a 26-year career August 2010.
He is currently a Managing at J. P. Morgan where he held a number Partner at Nubuke Investments, an asset of senior positions, most recently Vice management firm focused solely on Africa, Chairman of the Energy Group.
Previously, he Committee membership had a 21-year career with UBS Investment Remuneration Committee Chair, Bank, holding a number of senior positions, Nominations Committee and most recently as the Head of European Audit Committee.
Emerging Markets, and served on the Other directorships and offices Board of Directors.
Jeremy is a non-executive Director of Committee membership John Wood Group PLC UK.
Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and 12 MIKE DALY Remuneration Committee.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Other directorships and offices Mike Daly age 62, British was appointed Tutu is a director of the Nubuke as a non-executive Director in June 2014 Foundation, a Ghanaian-based cultural 6 following a 28-year career at BP where and educational foundation.
Tutu is also a he held a number of senior roles.
Most Senior Advisor to Power Africa, an initiative recently, he was Executive Vice President launched by the Obama administration to Exploration, and a member of BPs Group 6 ANGUS McCOSS increase access to electricity in Africa.
EXPLORATION DIRECTOR Committee membership Angus McCoss age 54, British was 9 STEVE LUCAS Audit Committee, appointed to the Board of Directors in NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Nominations Committee and 2006 following 21 years of wide-ranging Steve Lucas age 61, British was appointed EHS Committee.
exploration experience, working primarily as a non-executive Director in March 2012. with Shell in Africa, Europe, China, South Other directorships and offices A Chartered Accountant, Steve was Finance America and the Middle East.
Angus held Mike is a visiting Professor at the University Director at National Grid plc from 2002 to a number of senior positions at Shell, of Oxford and a Senior Director at Macro 2010 and previously worked for 11 years at including Regional Vice President of Advisory Partners.
Mike is also a nonRoyal Dutch Shell and for six years at BG Exploration for the Americas and General executive Director of CGG, an integrated Group, latterly as Group Treasurer.
Manager of Exploration in Nigeria.
He geoscience company based in France, Committee membership holds a PhD in Structural Geology.
which is listed on the Euronext and New Audit Committee Chair, York Stock Exchanges.
Other directorships and offices Nominations Committee, Angus is a non-executive Director of Ikon Remuneration Committee and Science Limited and a member of the KEVIN MASSIE Ethics and Compliance Committee.
Advisory Board of the industry-backed COMPANY SECRETARY Other directorships and offices Energy and Geoscience Institute of the Kevin Massie was appointed Company Steve is a non-executive Director of University of Utah.
Secretary on 1 January 2016, following Acacia Mining plc UK and is the Senior Graham Martins resignation as Company 7 Independent Director non-executive of Secretary.
Kevin was previously Corporate ANN GRANT HTN Towers plc.
Counsel and Deputy Company Secretary SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR at Tullow.
Ann Grant age 67, British was appointed 10 ANNE DRINKWATER as a non-executive Director in May 2008 and NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Senior Independent Director in April 2014.
Anne Drinkwater age 60, British was Ann was Vice Chairman Africa at Standard appointed as a non-executive Director in Chartered Bank from 2005 to 2014.
Annes appointment followed a earlier career was as a British Diplomat, Audit Committee 79 long career at BP, where she held a from 1971 to 2005.
From 1998, she worked Nominations Committee 84 number of senior business and operations at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office EHS Committee 86 positions, including President and Chief in London as Director for Africa and the Ethics & Compliance Committee 88 Executive Officer of BP Canada Energy Commonwealth.
From 2000 to 2005, Ann Company, President of BP Indonesia was the British High Commissioner to Remuneration Committee 90 and Managing Director of BP Norway.
com 51 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED STRENGTHENING HOW WE MANAGE RISKS Strong and effective risk management is an integral part of running our business.
Over the past year, Tullow has adopted a more rigorous and consistent approach to managing risks across the Group and rolled out an enhanced integrated enterprise-wide risk management process.
Managing risk is an integral part of our everyday business The Board, as part of its role in providing strategic oversight and we believe that risk management should be embedded and stewardship of the Company, is responsible for in our processes and procedures that we use to run our maintaining a sound risk management and internal control business.
Effectively managing risk across the Group is a system.
As part of that system, the Board determines competitive necessity and fundamental to creating and principal risks and sets respective risk tolerance appetite maintaining shareholder value.
An effective and joined up levels.
The Executive Team, Group Functional Heads and risk management framework enhances Tullows ability to Business Delivery Teams BDTs are responsible and achieve its strategic objectives, and helps to protect our accountable for monitoring and managing the risks that fall business, people and reputation.
It is then every leaders and managers job TULLOWS RISK UNIVERSE STRATEGIC RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS Internal Information reporting External Funding, Strategy & Planning About these risks About these risks Internal risks associated with inadequate strategy Financial risks arising from adverse market and external risks associated with external conditions and reporting risks from unreliable or competitive, political and social business inaccurate information and reporting procedures environment Oversight Oversight Board, Audit and EHS Committees Board Responsibility Responsibility Ian Springett, Chief Financial Officer Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer, Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer, and Ian Springett, Chief Financial Officer 52 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 to manage the day-to-day risks the Group may face.
They are Defined its risk appetite to clearly communicate the responsible for identifying the risks, assessing their impact level of risk the Board is willing to take in pursuit of and determining their consequence for the business.
its strategy: Appropriate actions are then taken to manage the risk Risk management embedded into business planning to an acceptable level defined by the Board.
and performance management to mandate accountability and responsibility for risk management Historically, Tullow has always managed its risks and this to all employees at all levels of the Group: and has not changed.
However, in the past year the Board Developed a Group Assurance Standard and integrated has implemented a number of actions to re-assess and assurance plans to monitor risks and to obtain further improve Tullows risk management framework.
assurance over effective risk management and These actions were part of the Groups overall organisational operation of internal controls.
design review that took place during the Major Simplification Project MSP and, as a result, the following enhancements Our inherent risk universe have been made: In order to ensure complete and systematic identification of risks and to ensure commonality of risk definitions across Developed a risk management policy and risk the Group, the Group maintains a Risk Universe, which management standard to mandate a consistent holds an extensive collection of potential risks that could approach to managing risk for all activities across impact the Groups performance.
These risks are separated all parts of the business: into four broad categories: Strategic, Financial, Operational Adopted a more rigorous and consistent approach to and Compliance.
Executive Directors are assigned managing risks across the Group and rolled out an responsibility for these categories, and assurance and enhanced integrated risk management process, with oversight responsibilities are assigned to the Board and strengthened governance and reporting requirements: respective Board committees.
A summary of our risk Driven a top-down and bottom-up approach to risk universe is detailed below.
management to ensure fully integrated risk management processes to enable decision making: OPERATIONAL RISKS COMPLIANCE RISKS Organisation & Human Resources, Health & Legal, Ethics & Compliance Safety, Information systems, Technical and About these risks Exploration Legal & Compliance risks arising from About these risks unethical behaviour or violation of applicable Operational risks that ultimately impact laws and regulations.
our business delivery, performance, stakeholders and reputation Oversight Ethics & Compliance Committee Oversight Board, Audit, EHS and Remuneration Committees Responsibility Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer, Responsibility Ian Springett, Chief Financial Officer Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer, Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer, and Angus McCoss, Exploration Director www.
com 53 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk management process The risk management process is an integral part of the The Groups risk register continues to be the core element annual business planning process and ongoing business of the risk management process.
Each layer of the performance management.
A key component of the process organisation is responsible for maintaining a risk register is not just risk identification, but also the top-down and at their business level, which is formally reviewed on a bottom-up discussions that occur to agree mitigation quarterly basis at their business performance review.
The plans and evaluate actions.
risk register identifies all key inherent risks facing the Group, Risk appetite taken from the Tullow Risk Universe.
These inherent risks The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk are then assessed at both an inherent and residual level, appetite, acceptable risk tolerance levels and putting in to determine the strength of existing controls and mitigating place a mechanism to monitor compliance with these actions and the required treatment action for each risk.
A number of enterprise-wide risk Tullow recognises that risk cannot be totally eliminated and workshops attended by the Executive Directors, BDT VPs that there are some risks the Board will choose to accept.
and Group Functional VPs were undertaken in 2015, to These decisions will come down to experience and after agree the principal risks and discuss and set the right consideration of the Groups defined risk appetite.
risk tolerances for each risk.
Risks are assessed on two scales: a according to their In considering the Groups risk appetite, the Board has likelihood and b by their potential impact on the Group, reviewed the risk process, assessment of principal risks, not just financially, but also in terms of safety, reputation and the existing controls and mitigating actions that drive and regulatory impact.
The risk registers are consolidated towards residual risk.
The risk appetite has been adopted upwards to the Group who then prepare a Group risk by the Board of Directors, and is going to be kept under register, identifying the principal risks facing the Company.
regular, at least annual, review to reflect the current The risk register, its method of preparation and the operation external and market conditions.
of key controls are periodically reported to the Executive and the Audit Committee.
Top-down Accountability, Board, Audit monitoring, Executive Directors Principal Committee, assurance risks Sub-Committees and evaluation of actions Board, SubBusiness and Enterprise Committees, Functional VPs risks Executive Directors Business Delivery Business Delivery Team Business delivery risks Team VPs Bottom-up Identification of risks and mitigating actions for BU Leadership, projects and Project Teams BU Functional Project risks Business Leads Delivery Teams 54 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts
