CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role The Committee reviews the composition and balance of NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE the Board and the senior executive team on a regular basis.
When recruiting new Executive or non-executive Directors, the Committee appoints external search consultants to provide a list of possible candidates, from which a shortlist is produced.
External consultants are instructed that diversity is one of the criteria that the Committee will take into consideration in their selection of the shortlist.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are set out on the corporate website.
Committees main responsibilities The Committees main duties are: Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members and making recommendations DEAR SHAREHOLDER to the Board with regard to any changes required: There are five Executive and seven non-executive Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, Directors on the Tullow Board.
They come from varied candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when professional backgrounds and provide the Board with a they arise: diverse range of experience, knowledge and approach.
Succession planning for Directors and other Their biographies are set out on pages 50 and 51 of senior executives: this report.
Reviewing annually the time commitment required The main task of the Nominations Committee is to of non-executive Directors: and ensure that the Board has the necessary skills and Making recommendations to the Board expertise to support the Companys current and regarding membership of the Audit, Remuneration future activities.
In addition, we work to ensure that and other Committees in consultation with the Chair we recruit, develop and retain a diverse group of senior of each Committee.
managers who will be able to take on the most senior positions in the Company in the future.
Committee membership and meetings The Committee was comprised of four non-executive Simon Thompson Directors for the majority of 2015.
In December 2015, on Chairman of the Nominations Committee the Committees recommendation, the Board approved the appointment of the remaining non-executive Directors, 9 February 2016 Anne Drinkwater, Mike Daly and Jeremy Wilson, to the Committee.
Simon Thompson was Chairman of the Committee throughout the year.
The membership and attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2015 are shown in the table on the next page.
In addition to the two formal meetings, the Committees remit allowed for informal discussions, interviews, telephone conversations and a number of informal meetings during the year.
Committee activities The principal activities of the Committee during 2015 and after the year-end were: Board diversity The Board currently consists of five Executive and seven non-executive Directors.
Two of the seven non-executive Directors are women but all of the Executive Directors are men, which translates to a relatively low level of gender diversity.
The Board supports the aspirations set out in the 2011 Davies Report Women on Boards that women should make up at least 25 per cent of board positions, but to achieve 84 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 this within the timeframe contemplated would restrict future Board appointments to women only, which may 2015 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE not be in the best interest of the Company.
MEMBERSHIP & ATTENDENCE However we continue to seek to address the problem of lack of gender diversity in the Senior Management pipeline, as described in the Organisation and Culture Meetings attended section on page 64.
Currently, 12 per cent of Senior out of a total Managers are women.
The Board most recently Committee member possible discussed diversity at its meeting in December 2015 Simon Thompson Chair 2 2 and agreed to prepare a specific plan to improve both Tutu Agyare 2 2 gender and ethnic diversity, including key performance Steve Lucas 2 2 indicators that would be used to determine an element Ann Grant 2 2 of performance-related pay for Senior Executives, in 2016.
Mike Daly 0 0 Anne Drinkwater 0 0 2015 was a difficult year for the entire oil industry and Tullow implemented significant changes to its internal Jeremy Wilson 0 0 structure and a major headcount reduction in response Appointed to Committee in December 2015 to market conditions.
In these circumstances, it proved difficult to proactively address the diversity shortfall through recruitment, but the Committee and the Board determined that it was critical that existing diversity levels should not be adversely impacted by this major reorganisation.
A review in December 2015 confirmed that diversity levels were broadly unchanged when compared with 2014 data.
Senior Management succession planning The Committee and the Board work closely with Executive Directors to review the Senior Management talent pool within Tullow.
We seek to ensure that all candidates have personal development plans that will provide them with the knowledge and skills required to progress within Tullow.
Within this work, we pay particular attention to the development of individuals who would increase the diversity of the Senior Management team.
During 2015 a new leadership programme was developed which will be implemented in 2016.
Membership of Board Committees The Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate individuals for appointment or re-appointment to Board Committees to ensure that those Committees have members with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience.
As set out above, in December 2015, on the Committees recommendation, the Board approved the appointment of Anne Drinkwater, Mike Daly and Jeremy Wilson to the Nominations Committee.
Committee evaluation The performances of the Board and its Committees were considered as part of the Board evaluation process and one of the resulting actions was the appointment of the remaining nonexecutive Directors as members of the Committee.
In December 2015, Tullow announced the retirement of Graham Martin following the 2016 Annual General Meeting, which will be held on 28 April 2016.
Graham also stepped down from his position as Company Secretary with effect from 1 January 2016 and was replaced as Company Secretary by Kevin Massie.
