Governance Report Nominations Committee Meetings attended Percentage Overview Name of Director scheduled attended Dame Helen Alexander Chair 4 4 100% As Chairman of the Nominations Committee, the purpose of this report Alan Gillespie 3 4 75% is to update shareholders on the Greg Lock 4 4 100% activities of the Nominations Pradeep Kar 4 4 100% Committee during 2015.
The principal John McConnell 4 4 100% role of the Nominations Committee is Mary McDowell 4 4 100% to ensure an appropriate balance of experience and abilities on the Board Terry Neill 4 4 100% recommending changes where 1 Jonathan Newcomb 4 4 100% appropriate, review succession planning and consider the leadership 1 Resigned 31 December 2015 needs of the Group as a whole.
The composition of the Nominations considering the re-election of Directors Appointments to the Board are made Committee is set out in the table above.
at the 2015 Annual General Meeting on merit, having regard to the skills During 2015, the Nominations Committee and making recommendations to and experience required to best met formally on four occasions and the Board support the business while recognising considered succession planning for both reviewing the composition of the Board.
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
MWM Consulting who provided no Committees first step is to agree a role The Committees activities during the year other services to UBM during the year and person specification which forms included the following: were engaged to undertake the search the basis for discussion with relevant appointing Marina Wyatt as CFO and for a new Non-Executive Director.
All members of the agreeing her terms of engagement with Committee reviewed and commented Committee then provide input into the Remuneration Committee on a draft specification: a long list of potential candidates was compiled and further refinement of the specification succession planning and reviewing several candidates interviewed by the through individual discussions with the skills and experience necessary to Chairman.
A shortlist was drawn up and the selected search firm.
meet the needs of the organisation, as it interviewed by the Committee and progresses with its Events First strategy Trynka Shineman was selected as the As regards gender equality, the contingency planning and identifying new Non-Executive Director Committee supports the overall aims steps required to build capacity at the most senior management level and of the Davies Report entitled Women ensure continuing stability throughout on Boards.
I am pleased to report that the organisation during the Chairmans we achieved our target to increase the and CEOs absence from the business proportion of female Directors to 30% due to medical reasons by the end of 2015 and, following the appointment of Trynka Shineman, the proportion of female Directors will be 40%.
Dame Helen Alexander Chairman, Nominations Committee 60 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015
