2 Governance Steve Lucas has been Audit Committee Chairman since AUDIT COMMITTEE May 2012.
Steve, who is a Chartered Accountant, was finance director at National Grid plc from 2002 to 2010.
It is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience and Steve Lucas therefore meets this requirement.
The other members of the Audit Committee are Ann Grant, Tutu Agyare, Anne Drinkwater, Jeremy Wilson and Mike Daly.
Biographies of the Committee members are given on pages 50 and 51.
Together the members of the Committee bring a broad range of industry, commercial and financial experience which is vital in supporting effective governance.
The Company Secretary serves as the secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit DEAR SHAREHOLDER Manager, the Vice President Finance and Commercial and representatives of the external auditors are invited to attend Strong corporate governance and risk management each meeting of the Committee and participated in all of the is a key part of Tullows business model and the Board meetings during 2015.
The Chairman of the Board also and Audit Committee continue to be focused on attends meetings of the Committee by invitation and was maintaining high standards of governance and risk present at all of the meetings in 2015.
The external auditors management across the Group.
The Audit Committee and the Group Internal Audit Manager have unrestricted oversees the financial reporting process in order access to the Committee Chairman.
to make sure that the information provided to the shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable In 2015, the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
and allows assessment of the Companys position, Meetings are scheduled to allow sufficient time for full performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit discussion of key topics and to enable early identification Committee also oversaw the risk management and and resolution of risks and issues.
Meetings are aligned internal control system and we were pleased that with the Groups financial reporting calendar.
during 2015 the risk management process has been The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference considerably enhanced and internal controls have during the year.
These are in line with best practice and been further improved following the finalisation of reflect the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance SAP roll-out and formalisation of the fraud risk Code, the FRCs 2012 Guidance on Audit Committees, the management framework, both of which strengthen FRCs 2014 Guidance on Risk Management and Internal control over accounting and reporting practices.
Control, and the Competition and Markets Authoritys The A key agenda item for the Audit Committee in 2015 was Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market implementation of the changes to the UK Corporate Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Governance Code and the revised Financial Reporting Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order Council FRC guidelines, which were published in the 2014.
The Audit Committees terms of reference can be second half of 2014.
Following the Board review of our accessed via the corporate website.
The Board approved risk management processes across the Group, the the terms of reference on 8 December 2015. new risk management policy and standards have Summary of responsibilities been approved which introduce a consistent The Committees detailed responsibilities are described enterprise-wide process of managing risk at Tullow.
in its terms of reference and include: The Audit Committee plays an active role in that process by making sure it meets business needs Monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements and remains fit for purpose.
of the Group, reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and Steve Lucas judgements, among others including going Chairman of the Audit Committee concern and viability assessments: 9 February 2016 Review and, where necessary, challenge the consistency of significant accounting policies, and whether appropriate accounting standards have been used: Review the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and advise the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Tullows position, performance, business model and strategy: www.
com 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness of The following describes the work completed to discharge the Companys internal financial controls and internal the Audit Committees main responsibilities: control and risk management systems: Financial reporting Review the adequacy of the whistle blowing system, Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements and and the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: formal announcements relating to the Groups financial Review and assess the annual internal audit plan performance.
Reviewing the significant financial reporting and receive a report on the results of the internal issues and accounting policies and disclosures in the audit functions work on a periodic basis: financial reports.
Oversee the relationship with the external auditors The Committee met with the external auditors as part of the including assessing their independence and objectivity full-year and half-year accounts approval process.
During and review the annual audit plan to ensure it is this exercise the Committee considered the key audit risks consistent with the scope of the audit engagement, identified as being significant to the 2015 accounts and the and review the findings of the audit: most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or Assess the qualifications, expertise and resources judgemental matters identified during the audit and halfof the external auditor and the effectiveness of the yearly review as well as any recommendations or audit process: and observations made by the external auditors.
The primary Ensure that, following the transition period applied areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation under the CMA Order, the audit services contract to the 2015 accounts and how these were addressed are is put out to tender at least once every 10 years.
detailed on the next page: During the year the Board established the Ethics & Compliance Committee, which took responsibility for 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS monitoring systems and controls to prevent bribery and corruption, which was previously a responsibility of the Approval of half-year and full-year Financial Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee still received Statements updates from the Group Ethics & Compliance Manager Review of the effectiveness of the external on any significant non-compliances.
audit process Review of the work of the independent Key areas reviewed in 2015 reserves auditor The Committee fully discharged its responsibilities during the year.
Assessment of the remit and results of internal audit A key element of the governance requirements regarding the Review of Senior Accounting Officer Groups Financial Statements is for the report and accounts sign-off process to be fair, balanced and understandable.
To ensure this Review of hedging and insurance arrangements requirement is met by Tullow, the Group takes a collaborative approach to creating its Annual Report and Accounts, with Oversight of key IT risks and major direct input from the Board throughout the process.
The systems implementation process of planning, writing and reviewing the Report is run Oversight of the enterprise risk by a central project team, alongside a formal audit process management process undertaken by our external auditors.
In order for the Audit Committee and the Board to be satisfied with the overall Audit Committee membership fairness, balance and clarity of the final report, the following Meetings steps are taken: attended out of a total Committee member possible Early planning, taking into consideration regulatory Steve Lucas 4 4 changes and best practice: Tutu Agyare 4 4 Comprehensive guidance issued to key report Anne Drinkwater 4 4 contributors across the Group: Ann Grant 4 4 Validation of data and information included in Jeremy Wilson 4 4 the report both internally and by external auditors: Mike Daly 4 4 A series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across different levels in the Group that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance: and Senior Management and Board sign-off.
80 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Significant financial judgements for 2015 How the Committee addressed these judgements Intangible assets The amounts for intangible exploration and evaluation The Group has a very active exploration and appraisal work assets represent active exploration projects.
These amounts are written-off programme and the Committee reviews and challenges to the income statement as exploration costs unless commercial reserves management assumptions and judgements underlying the are established or the determination process is not completed.
The key areas calculation of intangible assets for each well at each balance in which management has applied judgement are as follows: the Groups sheet date.
In addition, Deloitte LLP have identified this as a intention to proceed with a future work programme for a prospect or licence, significant area of focus for their audit and undertake discussions the likelihood of licence renewal or extension and the success of a well result with operational and finance staff to challenge evidence provided or geological or geophysical survey.
by management to support the value of intangible assets and provide detailed reporting to the Committee on the results of their work.
This is a recurring area of judgement.
Taxation The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary The Committee was satisfied with the treatment of these course of its business, including tax claims from tax authorities in a number issues and judgements applied through reporting from of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Group assesses all such Senior Management, supported by advice from external claims in the context of the tax laws of the countries in which it operates professional advisers and independent legal counsel.
This is and, where applicable, makes provision for any settlements which it also an area of higher risk and as a result the Committee receives considers are probable.
in-depth written and oral reporting from Deloitte LLP on their conclusions from the audit of these matters.
Decommissioning Decommissioning costs are uncertain and cost estimates A review of all decommissioning cost estimates is undertaken can vary in response to many factors, including changes to the relevant legal annually by an independent specialist.
The results are then requirements, the emergence of new technology or experience at other assets.
reviewed in the context of operator estimates for the purposes The expected timing, work scope, amount of expenditure and risk weighting may of the annual Financial Statements.
Provision for environmental also change.
Therefore significant estimates and assumptions are made in clean-up and remediation costs is based on current legal and determining the provision for decommissioning.
contractual requirements, technology and price levels.
The impact on decommissioning estimates was reviewed and challenged by the Committee.
Deloitte LLP also reviewed the results as part of their audit.
Value in use of property, plant and equipment PPE Management performs Results of the impairment tests were discussed and challenged impairment tests on the Groups PPE assets when there are indicators of by the Committee and Deloitte LLP review these calculations and impairments.
The calculation of the recoverable amount requires estimation audit the underlying economic models to satisfy themselves of of future cash flows within complex impairment models.
Key assumptions and the integrity of the process.
estimates relate to commodity prices based on forward curves for two years and the long-term corporate economic assumptions thereafter, discount rates that are adjusted to reflect risks specific to individual assets, commercial reserves and the related cost profiles.
Carrying value of goodwill Following the acquisition of Spring Energy in 2013, Results of the impairment tests were discussed and challenged Tullow recognised goodwill in line with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business by the Committee and Deloitte LLP review these calculations and Combinations.
Management performs impairment tests on the carrying value audit the underlying economic models to satisfy themselves of the of goodwill semi-annually.
The calculation of the recoverable amount is based integrity of the process.
on the likely future economic benefits of the exploration assets in the portfolio and is based on chance of exploration success and estimated value of the potential discoveries.
Provision for onerous contracts Due to the reduction in planned future work The Committee reviewed and challenged the assessment of programmes the Group has identified a number of onerous service contracts.
the Groups onerous contracts with Deloitte LLP, including an In order to calculate the provision management have estimated the expected assessment of the intended usage and assumed rates which future usage.
If the Group is able to sub-contract the rigs or find a use for underpinned the calculation of the provision.
them the provision will decrease.
Going concern The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions and Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different judgements in the underlying going concern forecast cashflows scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices, different by discussing and analysing the risks, sensitivities and mitigations production rates from the Groups producing assets and delays to development identified by management.
This is also an area of higher risk projects.
In addition to the Groups operating cash flows, portfolio management and as a result the Committee receives in-depth written and oral opportunities are reviewed to potentially enhance the financial capability and reporting from Deloitte LLP on their conclusions on management flexibility of the Group.
In the currently low commodity price environment, the assessment of going concern.
Group has taken appropriate action to reduce its cost base and had $1.9 billion of debt liquidity headroom at the end of 2015.
The Groups forecast, taking into account the risks described above, show that the Group will be able to operate within its current debt facilities and have sufficient financial headroom for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
com 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External auditor In order to ensure the effectiveness of the external Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment audit process, Deloitte LLP conduct an audit risk or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors and identification process at the start of the audit cycle.
overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditor This plan is presented to the Audit Committee for their and, where appropriate, the selection of a new external review and approval and, for the 2015 audit, the key auditor, and assessing the effectiveness of the external audit risks identified included carrying value of audit process is a key responsibility of the Audit Committee.
exploration and evaluation assets, carrying value of plant, property and equipment, provision for tax claims, The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the provision for onerous rig contracts, oil and gas reserves, Audit Committee should have primary responsibility decommissioning provisions, risk of management for making a recommendation on the appointment, override, liquidity risk and going concern, Depreciation re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
Depletion and Amortisation DD&A, as well as On the basis of the review of external audit effectiveness revenue recognition.
These and other identified risks described below, the Committee recommended to the are reviewed through the year and reported at Audit Board that it recommends to shareholders the reCommittee meetings where the Committee challenges appointment of the external auditors at the 2016 AGM: the work completed by the auditor and tests managements assumptions and estimates in The external auditors are required to rotate the audit relation to these risks.
The Committee also seeks an partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
assessment from management of the effectiveness of Following interviews with Tullow Directors, the new lead audit partner started his tenure in 2015: the audit process.
In addition, a separate questionnaire addressed to all attendees of the Audit Committee and The audit contract was last tendered in 2004 and no senior finance managers is used to assess external contractual obligations existed that acted to restrict audit effectiveness.
As a result of these reviews, the the Audit Committees choice of external auditors.
Audit Committee considered the external audit Under the EU Audit Regulation and the Competition process to be operating effectively: and Markets Authority The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use The Committee closely monitors the level of audit and of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee non-audit services provided by the external auditors Responsibilities Order 2014, Tullow elected to apply to the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited the transitional rules with an annual review of this to assignments that are closely related to the annual approach.
According to those rules, the Company is audit or where the work is of such a nature that a required to run a competitive tender process in respect detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
A of auditor appointment no later than 31 December policy and standard for the engagement of the external 2024 year end.
auditor to supply non-audit services is in place to formalise these arrangements, which requires Audit The Groups external auditors are Deloitte LLP and the Committee approval for certain categories of work.
This Audit Committee assessed the qualification, expertise policy and standard are designed to ensure the external and resources, and independence of the external auditors independence is maintained.
They have been auditors as well as the effectiveness of the audit revised in 2015 to reflect changes in the regulatory process.
This review covered all aspects of the audit environment: and service provided by Deloitte LLP, including obtaining a report on the audit firms own internal quality control A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in procedures and consideration of the audit firms annual respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 4 transparency reports in line with the UK Corporate to the Financial Statements.
In addition to processes put Governance Code.
The Audit Committee also in place to ensure segregation of audit and non-audit approved the external audit terms of engagement and roles, Deloitte LLP is required, as part of the assurance remuneration.
During 2015 the Committee held private process in relation to the audit, to confirm to the meetings with the external auditors and the Audit Committee that they have both the appropriate Committee Chairman also maintained regular contact independence and the objectivity to allow them to with the audit partner throughout the year.
These continue to serve the members of the Company.
meetings provide an opportunity for open dialogue This confirmation is received every six months and no with the external auditors without management being matters of concern were identified by the Committee.
Matters discussed included the auditors Internal controls and risk management assessment of significant financial risks and the Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the performance of management in addressing these risks, Groups risk management and internal control systems the auditors opinion of managements role in fulfilling was delegated to the Audit Committee by the Board.
obligations for the maintenance of internal controls, the transparency and responsiveness of interactions The Audit Committee obtained comfort over the effectiveness with management, confirmation that no restrictions of the Groups risk management and internal control have been placed on them by management, maintaining systems through activities coordinated by the internal the independence of the audit and how they have audit function.
These activities comprised: exercised professional challenge: 82 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 audit reviews undertaken by the internal audit team: Audit Committee receives regular reports on the status of the implementation of Internal Audit assurance activities undertaken by the Group functions: recommendations.
The Group also undertook managements review of internal controls through regular audits of non-operated joint ventures the control self-assessment CSA process: under the supervision of business unit management external auditors observations on internal financial and the Group Internal Audit Manager: controls identified as part of their audit, and The Committee receives summaries of investigations regular risk and assurance reporting by the business of known or suspected fraudulent activity by third unit and corporate teams to the Board.
parties and employees including ongoing monitoring and following-up of fraud investigations: and During the year, Group Internal Audit presented their The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of findings to the Audit Committee who monitored progress of Internal Audit through its review of progress versus issues raised and their timely resolution on a regular basis.
plan, the results of audits reported at each of the meetings, and through the thorough self-assessment In addition, during the year, the Audit Committee received review report provided by the Group Internal Audit reports from the independent reserves auditor ERCE Manager.
Results of the review were discussed at the and reviewed the arrangements in place for managing Committee and actions to further improve Internal Information Technology risk relating to the Groups critical Audit effectiveness are being implemented.
The Committee also reviewed the levels in Internal Audit are assessed by the Audit arrangements for Company employees and contractors Committee with a view to ensuring that it can fully to raise concerns through the SpeakingUp programme.
The Committee oversaw the enhancement of the enterprise risk management process and fraud Whistle-blowing procedure risk management framework.
Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place.
Based on the results of the annual effectiveness review of risk management and internal control systems that was In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow works coordinated by Group Internal Audit, the Audit Committee to the highest ethical standards, an independent concluded that the system of internal controls operated whistle-blowing procedure was in operation throughout effectively throughout the financial year and up to the 2015 to allow staff to confidentially raise any concerns date on which the Financial Statements were signed.
This procedure complements established internal reporting processes.
The whistleInternal audit requirements Considering how the Groups internal audit requirements blowing policy is included in the Code of Ethical Conduct shall be satisfied and making recommendations to which is available to all staff in printed form and on the the Board.
The Committee considers the whistle-blowing procedures to be appropriate for The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access the size and scale of the Group.
and responsibility to the Audit Committee Chairman Review of effectiveness of the Audit Committee and Committee.
His main responsibilities include: During the year, the Audit Committee commissioned evaluating the development of the Groups overall an independent review of its own effectiveness with control environment as well as the effectiveness of risk the results reported to the Board.
The Committee was identification and management at operating, regional considered to be operating effectively and in accordance and corporate levels.
During 2015, the Group Internal with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Audit Manager met with the Audit Committee Chairman relevant guidance.
and with the Audit Committee without the presence of management to assess managements responsiveness to Internal Audit recommendations made during the ALLOCATION OF AUDIT COMMITTEE TIME year and to assess the effectiveness of Internal Audit: The Committee reviewed and challenged the programme of 2015 Internal Audit work developed to address both financial and overall risk management objectives identified within the Group.
The plan was subsequently adopted with progress reported at each of the Audit Committee meetings.
32 internal audit reviews were undertaken during the year, covering a range of financial and business processes in the Groups London office and the main operational locations in Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, South Africa and Norway.
Detailed results from these reviews were reported to management and in summary to the Audit Financial results 40% Risk and controls 33% Committee during the year.
Where required the Audit Internal audit matters 11% Governance 16% Committee receives full details on any key findings.
