Strategic Report Sustainability Leadership This section details the progress made in 2015 People on our sustainability focus areas, most notably Communities our people and customers, but also our broader responsibility with regard to governance, the environment and society Environment Customers The UBM Sustainability Leadership Group SLG was set up in December 2014 to Governance establish UBMs global sustainability agenda, long-term goals and the route map towards achieving them.
The SLG includes two members of the Executive Committee ExCo and four members of the Events First 2020 leadership cohort see page 29.
As highlighted on page 11 there In order to prioritise our sustainability agenda, during 2015 the SLG conducted a are some key elements to our materiality assessment.
This involved a global survey which gathered feedback from sustainability agenda.
Over 6,000 stakeholders took part in the survey, including employees, investors, suppliers and customers.
High 3 5 Medium 7 2 1 4 8 6 9 Low Low Medium High Importance to internal stakeholders The resulting materiality matrix above has helped us better understand what is most important to our stakeholders, defining the structure of our sustainability agenda going forward and enabling us to prioritise where we put our efforts and resources.
KPIs have now been developed for each priority item: Sustainability focus area Our priorities Our measures KPIs Training spend People 1 Training and education % of women in management 2 Diversity and equal opportunity Net promoter scores Customers 3 Customer experience and satisfaction 4 Profitability UBMs financial performance Health & safety plan roll-out Governance 5 Health & safety 6 Code of business conduct % whistleblowing calls investigated Doing business at UBM and resolved Waste tonnage from UBM events Environment 7 Usage of materials for UBM events Energy usage at offices and events 8 UBMs energy usage Communities 9 % of employees volunteering Ability for UBM staff to volunteer Items assessed but below priority threshold 28 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Importance to external stakeholders Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements People One company living one strategy Simultaneously, we established the Operational effectiveness UBM excels in creating events that bring Events First 2020 leadership cohort During 2015, the Company focused on four people together to do business.
This team of almost 100 senior priority areas to drive operational effectiveness: skilled and engaged employees is leaders came together for the first time to Valuing Diversity fundamental to delivering these productive understand and discuss recent business We continued to build on our strong history and dynamic events.
performance, identify ways to drive the of ensuring a diverse organisation, reflective strategy and become more effective During the year we employed on average of the markets we serve and communities leaders in implementing the Events First 5,107 people and had 5,136 employees at we work in.
Of this 1,642 Our Group diversity strategy aims to PRN employees.
We were pleased to see that all identified create a working environment which critical leaders in Advanstar have been The following sections highlight our progress values, celebrates and makes the most of retained within UBM and are playing an in the key areas behind our people strategy.
We do not condone active role in E20.
Advanstars employee unfair treatment of any kind and offer equal engagement score within the poll was 66%, Organisation design opportunities in all aspects of employment reflecting the positive integration process.
Over recent years, UBM has been and advancement regardless of race, transformed from a largely federated, nationality, gender, age, marital status, We also keep employees regularly updated print-dominated media conglomerate to sexual orientation, disability, and religious on Group strategy, financial performance a globally unified B2B events company.
We are committed, and ongoing operational matters.
We aim We continue to look at how we organise whenever possible, to employing and to communicate in as interactive a way as ourselves to deliver services for our developing people who are disabled, or possible and at the same time meeting customers in an efficient and effective way, become disabled during their career with our obligations to consult with employees while reflecting the diverse markets we serve.
We work to ensure training, or representatives.
We additionally career development and promotion In 2015 the Americas business operated disseminate information through face-toopportunities are equitable for nonas a single division to which Advanstar was face town hall communications, email disabled and disabled colleagues alike.
This completed the simplification alerts and our social intranet.
of the corporate structure from 15 separate Highlighting the Boards commitment to divisions four years ago to just three: UBM Skills transformation increase the proportion of female Directors Asia, UBM Americas and UBM EMEA.
We are building the skills to deliver growth on the Board to more than 30%, UBM and a pre-eminent position in the industry.
has now achieved 40% female Board Employee engagement and leadership As deeper customer insights help shape membership and, as a whole, UBM has In 2015 we polled our organisation to our events of the future, we continue to improved the gender balance at all levels of evaluate how engaged employees were assess and invest in the emerging skills management.
Women now make up 52% with UBM as a global brand.
Three priority themes of our management team, more closely our organisation responded positively, were identified in 2015: Sales Excellence, reflective of the gender representation representing a strong position and a Marketing Excellence and Leadership across the organisation.
These areas saw the biggest In 2015, UBMs lesbian, gay, bisexual and training investments as they are expected Average age of our people transgender LGBT group was relaunched, to deliver most value in driving Events First.
and renamed UBM Pride, to reflect the In 2015, 65% of our training budget was support of the whole UBM community.
We targeted at these three areas.
37 partnered with Stonewall an LGBT rights charity and set up diversity workshops and 0.2% activities over the year including, for the first 6.7% 9.7% time, a campaign to walk at the London Pride 15.1% and L. A.
21.0% 2013 2014 2015 Headcount 5,012 4,661 5,136 26.1% Gender split % women 56% 56% 59% 21.1% 1 Women on the UBM Board 22% 20% 40% 2 Women in E20 leadership cohort new to 2015 n a n a 36% Under 20 2025 Women in wider management roles including above 47% 45% 52% 2630 3135 3 Training spend not reported not reported 1.8m 3645 4655 Over 55 1 Announced appointment of Trynka Shineman on 18 February 2016 increasing proportion from 30% to 40%.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 3 Third party spend only Strategic Report Sustainability Leadership continued People continued Continuous Improvement people deemed most critical to driving our The Group CFO replaced the PRN Members of the current Business Leaders Events First strategy.
CEO at what was an important juncture Programme BLP are leading the global in the sale process roll-out of Continuous Improvement 58% of our business critical positions tools across the organisation, training have identified ready replacements.
Rewarding Performance employees how to use and apply the tools This succession planning process will As part of the Events First strategy, during to increase business effectiveness.
These be embedded into our quarterly business the year we conducted a review of our tools include: the five Whys, Kaizen, Rapid processes to further develop our variable pay arrangements.
This culminated in revisions being made This initiative is not only about using the 2015 saw a powerful demonstration of the to annual bonus plans for key global tools of Continuous Improvement, it is also depth of UBMs home-grown talent as we leadership positions to support the about instilling a mindset and a culture navigated a number of unplanned events: strategy and also provide a demonstrable of continuous improvement in the link to Company growth and performance.
During the periods of absence of the organisation so that it becomes the way Group CEO and Chairman, the Group employees naturally address business In 2016, we will further refine these CFO and the Senior Independent challenges and opportunities.
principles across all elements of variable Director respectively stepped into pay, to ensure that sustainable long-term actingroles Succession Planning growth and Company performance The EMEA CEO transferred to the We identified the succession planning is rewarded.
Americas in an acting capacity, while his process as integral to driving sustainable EMEA team stepped up performance.
In 2015 we refreshed our approach, focusing on the positions and Customers community activity relevant to their industry.
only supported the charitable activity Customer focus is one of the UBM UBM employees donate their time and skills but also gained exposure, with 400 Commitments, and the sustainability to maximise impact and raise awareness on visitors to the charitable shop and agenda also focuses on exploring how the lead-up to, as well as during, the event.
we can help our customers.
All the proceeds went to The Womens Charity partnerships have now been formed Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation Industry awards at over 30 of our events.
As well as those dedicated to improving the lives of Our sustainability efforts have been already mentioned in the case studies on women and girls in Hong Kong recognised by both our customers and pages 21 and 22 these include: the broader exhibition industry: Medical Design & Manufacturing In April 2015, UBM EMEA was MD&M West Anaheim, US hosted presented with the Sustainable TFM our Technology for Marketing the 2nd Annual STEM Education Day Development Award, for innovative cost show in London teamed up with Media in collaboration with Science@OC saving in the value chain.
The award Trust which works with the media a not-for-profit organisation in Orange was presented by UFI, The Global industry to empower charities and County working to inspire middle Association of the Exhibition Industry communities.
TFM provided the trust school students to excel in STEM with a stand at the show and hosted Science, Technology, Engineering In November 2015, UBM Asia was match-making events.
As a result and Mathematics and explore related presented with the title of Most Reliable of this, they had over 100 marketing careers.
The education day gave Trade Show Organiser in Hong Kongs and advertising professionals sign up teachers a unique opportunity to Most Valuable Companies Awards to volunteer with charities in need of connect their STEM programmes to their expertise the skills and jobs required in advanced Event charity partnerships manufacturing, thus developing our We recognise that our customers Cosmoprof Asia has run the Boutique customers of the future themselves also have sustainability beauty sampling shop for the second agendas and we can help them achieve year running.
Thirteen exhibitors donated those aims.
UBM has developed eventtravel-sized products which were made specific charity partnerships, which enable into bespoke gift boxes and sold for our customers to be part of a charitable or a charity donation.
The exhibitors not 30 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Significant enhancements have been made policies and procedures across the e-learning training programme for all to governance across UBM in 2015 by business.
Towards the end of 2015, a global employees released at the end of 2014, embedding the Code of Business Conduct health & safety strategy SafeTrack was the UBM gifts and hospitality policy and Doing Business at UBM across the developed and agreed by the ExCo and the online register was introduced in 2015, organisation.
The Code of Conduct is a Board for implementation in 2016.
This where employees are required to record priority item in our sustainability agenda strategy introduces a new health & safety any gifts and hospitality they offer, have and is available to all employees via the policy and sets performance standards.
This is to ensure Hub UBMs intranet.
It covers issues such We have also introduced an online health that UBM employees are not in a position as anti-bribery and corruption, business & safety reporting system for incidents, where they might be or might appear to be conduct, health & safety, use of social audits and inspections.
We have nominated ABC media, labour standards, information representatives across the Group who act security and human rights.
Information security as key sources of advice on anti-bribery During September 2015, we launched an matters.
These are individuals steeped in In support of the Code of Conduct, UBM information security e-learning training the business who provide a very helpful has introduced an independent confidential programme so that all employees are more insight to the compliance professionals.
reporting line Safecall, for employees to aware of the cyber security risks directly report, anonymously, any breaches of the facing UBM.
This reflects the overwhelming Human rights Code of Conduct see case study on page evidence that it is behaviours that constitute Given the nature of our business and our 18.
This supplements the other very the greatest risk and greatest protection global reach, we believe that the principal important mechanisms by which against cyber risks.
We have rolled out human rights issues affecting our business employees can raise their concerns, further learning initiatives to tackle the relate to non-discrimination, fair whether through line management, HR or increasing risk of phishing that many global employment practices and the right to internal audit.
Any matters raised during operations face.
We remain committed to privacy.
We support the principles of the 2015 were investigated and resolved.
continuous assessment and improvement United Nations Declaration on Human for our information security procedures.
Rights and the International Labour Health & safety Organisations Declaration on Fundamental In January 2015, we appointed a Head Anti-bribery and corruption Principles and Rights at Work.
of Health & Safety to focus on our health Following on from our anti-bribery and & safety performance and in developing corruption ABC policy and mandatory Communities During 2015 we carried out an extensive In December 2015, all of UBM Asias In exceptional circumstances the consultation with our employees to senior managers volunteered for two Charity Committee has increased this understand better their view on how UBM days, building houses for a disadvantaged matched funding allowance should support community engagement community in the Philippines Following the tragic events after the in a way which was more closely aligned earthquake in Nepal in April 2015, UBM with the Events First strategy.
Taking The number of employees making use of employees acted quickly and began account of the feedback received we volunteering days has now doubled to 8% generously donating.
To support this, are implementing a new approach to our 2014: 4%.
UBM committed to matching employee community engagement through a mix donations up to 20,000.
UBM offices of funding and volunteering effort.
We will Matched giving across the globe rallied and set up also be improving our reporting in UBMs policy for matched giving enables events to raise money for the relief this area.
staff to double their fundraising up to efforts, with one office in Shanghai 500 per employee per year organising a charity sale and raising Volunteering 2,000 in just three days UBM volunteering policies which allow employees to take from one to four days per year working for a charity or not-for-profit organisations, are now applicable to all employees based in the 2014 2015 US, Europe and China Total cash donations to charity including matched funding not reported 249,912 Employees have been utilising these Total donations in kind to charity not reported 579,021 days in various ways, including reading to children at local schools, decorating % of staff using volunteering days 4% 8% homeless shelters, and running events with community groups UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Strategic Report Sustainability Leadership continued Environment 15% reduction in global offices emissions per employee since 2010 exceeding the targeted 10% by 2016 UBM became a leader in climate 2013 2014 2015 1 Mandatory carbon emissions reporting tCO e tCO e tCO e disclosure for the industry as the only 2 2 2 events-based business to be included in Scope 1 Direct emissions the CDP FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure Natural gas emissions from offices 168 122 108 Leadership Index CDLI, scoring 100 Fugitive emissions from offices 0 22 0 the maximum number of points available Emissions from Company-owned vehicles 155 115 110 UBM joined the CDP Commit to Action Scope 2 Indirect emissions programme ahead of the UN climate Electricity from offices 5,364 5,235 4,355 change conference COP 21 in Paris Scope 3 Other indirect emissions New London office achieved LEED Water use emissions from offices 5 5 2 Platinum certification the highest level Waste disposal to landfill from offices 5 5 7 of certification for Leadership in Energy Waste energy recovery from offices inc, anaerobic 4 1 0.3 and Environmental Design.
IndustryCommuter travel emissions 3,416 3,246 3,192 leading energy efficiencies has meant Business travel flights 5,137 3,191 2,358 that energy usage in the new building Business travel train 95 has been reduced by 50%, saving over Business travel taxi 94 0.1m per annum Business travel car hire 39 Offsite datacentre electricity 868 544 471 Global event emissions calculations 2 Events exhibitions globally 7,996 13,130 14,074 were carried out for the third year.
UBM continues to be the only global Total gross emissions 23,118 25,617 24,907 events organiser to monitor the carbon 1 Please refer to page 85 for calculation methodology footprint of its events 2 Emissions from recorded electricity, waste, paper and carpet usage 13 of our events are now certified with ISO 20121 sustainable events management system 2014: 11 Scope 1 Recorded Emissions CO e tonnes 2 Utilities data from UBM offices has been recorded over the last five years.
In line 800 with our new sustainability priorities and 700 our Events First strategy, we are now also 600 reporting on energy usage and waste from our events see table below.
500 400 For each new UBM office, energy smart 300 meters are installed wherever possible.
These meters measure UBMs energy 200 usage on a real-time basis, enabling 100 accurate monitoring and therefore 0 management of usage.
Monthly energy 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 reduction league tables keep facilities and sustainability teams aware of their offices position in the league and the associated cost savings.
This technology, reporting and regular communication has enabled us to Average coverage 2013 2014 2015 consistently reduce energy usage at our offices over the last three years.
Energy usage 95% of offices 14,289 MWh 11,935 MWh 9,868 MWh 91% of events 18,366 MWh Waste to landfill 40% of offices 23.7 tonnes 15.7 tonnes 16.3 tonnes 84% of events 4,631 tonnes Please refer to page 85 for calculation methodology 32 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015
