239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 28 Corporate Governance Report Introduction Chairmans Statement.
The Board undertakes formal performance evaluations set out in the Report of the Directors.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to The Company does not have a Remuneration Committee with the the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for investment Companies Board as a whole being responsible for Director and Board AIC Guide both of which can be found at www.
AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which can New Directors follow an induction process, including input from be found at www.
uk, as well as setting out additional the Investment Manager, Secretary and Corporate Broker, on principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific joining the Board and all Directors receive other relevant training relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
A recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC management agreement between the Company and its Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, Investment Manager sets out the matters over which the will provide an appropriate and satisfactory level of transparency Investment Manager has authority and the limits beyond which to shareholders.
Board approval must be sought.
All other matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing, and corporate The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC governance procedures, are reserved for the approval of the Board Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance of Directors.
The Board currently meets at least quarterly and Code, except as set out below: receives full information on the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in the role of the chief executive: advance of Board meetings.
In addition the Board has many ad executive directors remuneration: hoc meetings and an annual strategy day.
the need for an internal audit function.
Board Committees The Board has appointed four committees to cover specific For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the operations: Audit Committee, Management Engagement UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these Committee, Nominations Committee and Property Valuation provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference of each committee an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of are available on the Companys website, or upon request from the Companys day-to-day management and administrative the Company.
functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these Audit Committee provisions.
Information regarding the composition, responsibilities and activities of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit The Board Committee Report on pages 31 to 33.
The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which Mr Christopher Hill is Chairman and Mr Andrew Wilson is Senior Management Engagement Committee Independent Director.
All Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, The Management Engagement Committee comprises all are considered by the Board to be independent, with any potential independent Directors of the Company and has been chaired by conflicts considered at each Board meeting with reference to the Mr Christopher Hill.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of The Management Engagement Committee has met once in the the Board and, as all Directors will be subject to re-election on an past year preceding the date of the signing of these accounts.
The annual basis, it is not appropriate for the Board to have a limit on purpose of the Committee is to review the terms of the the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, agreements with the Manager including, but not limited to, the including the Chairman.
The Board also takes the view that management fee and also to review the performance of the independence is not compromised by length of tenure on the Manager in relation to the achievement of the Companys Board and Mr Hill, Mr Robertson and Mr Wilson, who have been objectives.
These reviews have been conducted during the year Directors since 2006, have not been compromised by length of and the outcomes are noted below.
In considering this, the Board considered a number of Ignis Fund Managers Limited was appointed as the Alternative factors including experience, integrity and judgement of Investment Fund Manager AIFM of the Company from 18 July character.
However, the Board has a clear strategy in place to 2014.
Following the takeover of Ignis Asset Management by refresh the Board on an ongoing basis which is set out in the 28 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 29 Standard Life Investments Limited in 2014, the Board appointed recognises the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense and the Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited as AIFM on value this brings to the Company in terms of skills, knowledge and 29 December 2015.
A summary of the current contract between experience.
The Nominations Committee did not require to meet the Company and Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds during the year but did meet in 2016 to consider the appointment Limited in respect of management services provided is given in of Mr Ayre.
Property Valuation Committee The Management Engagement Committee has considered the The Property Valuation Committee comprises all of the Directors investment performance of the Company and the capability and and is chaired by Mr Andrew Wilson, Chartered Surveyor.
resources of the Investment Manager to deliver satisfactory investment performance.
They also considered the length of the Committee members meet CBRE, the independent valuer to the notice period of the investment management contract and the Company, and representatives of Standard Life Investments at fees payable to the Investment Manager, together with the least twice a year and report back to the Board on the process for standard of the other services provided.
It was noted that, last arriving at independent valuations and on any issues that arise in year, the Investment Manager had reduced the level of fees relation to this process.
Internal Controls Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the terms control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole due to the established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular strength and quality of the management team, performance needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is achieved over the longer term and the Investment Managers exposed, consistent with the guidance in the Financial Reporting commitment to the sector.
The Management Engagement Council publication Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Committee have also conducted reviews where appropriate with Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
the assistance of the Investment Manager of the Companys other service providers.
The outcome of those reviews has been The process is based principally on the Investment Managers satisfactory.
existing risk-based approach to internal control whereby a risk matrix is created that identifies the key functions carried out by Nominations Committee the Investment Manager and other service providers, the individual The Nominations Committee comprises all Directors of the activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated Company and has been chaired by Mr Christopher Hill.
The with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those Nominations Committee considers appointments of new risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The risk matrix is Directors, undertaking a thorough and open process involving, regularly updated and the Board is provided with regular reports where appropriate, professional recruitment consultants and highlighting all material changes to the risk ratings and committee interviews with candidates whose skills have been confirmation of the action which has been, or is being, taken.
A identified as complementary to the existing Board.
The Board and formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Committee are cognisant of the debate around the Board and includes consideration of ISAE 3402 and similar reports recommendations of the Davies Report on Women on Boards and issued by the Investment Manager and other service providers.
In Director Meetings Attendance Summary Management Property Engagement Valuation Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 4 4 3 3 1 1 4 4 K McCullagh 4 4 3 3 1 1 4 4 S Platts 4 4 3 3 1 1 4 4 J Robertson 4 4 n a n a n a n a 4 4 A Wilson 4 4 3 3 1 1 4 4 The table above sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings all held during the year and the number attended by each Director post their appointment date.
In addition to the above, there were 57 ad hoc meetings held during the year.
All meetings were held outside the UK.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 29 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 30 Corporate Governance Report continued addition, the Board also receives quarterly updates from both the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The Compliance and Internal Audit departments of the Investment Board has decided that the systems and procedures employed by Manager on areas that specifically affect the Company.
the Investment Manager and the Secretary, including both their Compliance reports are also received from the administrator on a internal audit functions and the work carried out by the Companys quarterly basis.
external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investments and Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function period and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their Relations with Shareholders nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance The Company places great importance on communication with its against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the shareholders and welcomes the views of shareholders.
The Board monitors the investment performance of the Company in Manager and Broker of the Company meet existing and potential comparison to its stated objective and against comparable shareholders on a regular basis and the Board receives regular companies.
The Board also reviews the Companys activities since reports on the views of shareholders from these meetings.
In the previous Board meeting to ensure that the Investment addition the Chairman, where possible, meets larger shareholders Manager adheres to the agreed investment policy and approved annually and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to such required.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company and also policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the the annual and interim results presentations provides a forum, both Board receives reports from the Secretary in respect of formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of the with the Directors and Investment Manager of the Company.
Company including conflicts of interest.
Approved by the Board on 20 April 2016.
The Company formerly appointed Ignis Fund Managers Limited up until 29 December 2015 and now Standard Life Investments Christopher M. W. Hill Corporate Funds Limited as its AIFM and formerly Citibank Director International PLC up until 29 December 2015, now Citibank International Limited as its Depositary.
The Depositarys Ken McCullagh responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping of the Director Companys financial instruments and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
The AIFM has a permanent risk management function to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures are in place to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM has a risk policy which covers the risks associated with the management of the portfolio and the adequacy and appropriateness of this policy is reviewed at least annually.
30 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
