239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 31 Audit Committee Report Composition Valuation of Properties How was the issue addressed?
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Mr Ken McCullagh, The valuation of properties is undertaken in accordance with the operates within well-defined written terms of reference, which are accounting policy disclosed in note 1 h to the accounts.
The available on the Companys website.
It comprises all of the process adopted in the valuation of the portfolio and the Directors other than Mr John Robertson, who is invited to attend valuations themselves are considered by the Property Valuation meetings of the Committee unless, as a non-independent director, Committee, representatives of which met the external valuer, a conflict of interest would exist.
Given the non-executive nature along with the Manager, as part of the year end valuation process.
of the Board, the Committee also believe it is appropriate for the The Chairman of this Committee reported to the Audit Committee Chairman of the Company to sit on the Audit Committee.
Within in March 2016 and indicated that the following issues were the membership of the Committee, Mr Ken McCullagh, the discussed in the meeting with the external valuers: Chairman, is a chartered accountant.
Market review and outlook: Responsibilities The level of yields on properties within the portfolio: The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are as follows: Letting activity within the portfolio: Review the Annual and Interim Accounts and challenge where Rental value and void changes: necessary the actions and judgements of the Companys Manager: Comparable evidence relating to the valuation of the properties.
Review and monitor the internal controls and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: Particular focus was given to the underlying yields applied to a number of the properties and whether they appropriately Determine the terms of appointment of the auditor, together reflected the comparable evidence, letting activity and the with its remuneration: property market as a whole.
Following this meeting and To advise the Board on whether the Annual Report and subsequent discussions with the Investment Manager, a value of Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable 1,311,695,000 was agreed as the valuation of the property and provide the information necessary for shareholders to portfolio as at 31 December 2015.
The Audit Committee assess the Companys performance, business model and considered the report by the Chairman of the Property Valuation strategy.
Committee along with a summary of the valuation and its key movements by the Investment Manager and agreed that this The Audit Committee is also the channel through which the valuation was appropriate for the financial statements and that a auditor reports to the Board of Directors.
It meets at least three robust process of analysis had been followed.
In terms of existence times a year to take account of the requirements placed on audit of the properties, the Committee noted the procedures that the committees by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and AIC Manager has in place to ensure correct approval and title to all Code dated February 2015.
The Audit Committee considers any properties held which include any property transaction matters which the auditor wishes to communicate to the Audit documentation having to be approved and signed by the Board Committee and, through them, to the Board of Directors.
This irrespective of its value and the obligations on the Companys provides a forum for the external auditor to give their views about solicitors to ensure good and marketable title.
In addition, as part significant qualitative aspects of the Companys accounting of the external audit, the Committee sought assurance from the practices and to draw to the attention of the Audit Committee any auditor prior to sign off of the financial statements that the significant difficulties that they encountered during the audit, any confirmation of all titles had been included as part of the audit substantial uncorrected misstatements, any disagreements with work undertaken.
management and any other matters which they felt it appropriate to raise.
Recognition of Rental Income How was the issue addressed?
Significant Issues The recognition of rental income is undertaken in accordance with At a planning meeting of the Audit Committee with the auditor, the accounting policy disclosed in note 1 e to the accounts.
The the scope and timing of the audit were agreed and it was Committee considered the processes and controls the Manager confirmed that the Directors had no knowledge of any fraud has in place to ensure the completeness and accuracy of income.
within the Company: it was agreed that the significant issues in These include data input checks, rent demand reconciliations and the audit should be the valuations of the properties and the rent arrear reconciliations.
In addition the Committee also accuracy of income recognition in the Company and set out considered the various reports provided by the Investment below is how the Committee considered these issues during its review of the financial statements.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 31 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 32 Audit Committee Report continued Manager and reviewed on a quarterly basis during the year which approach to evaluate the auditor and the effectiveness of the included the following: audit process and found this to be satisfactory.
Portfolio Yield summaries: The Companys auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, was first appointed for the year ended 31 December 2006.
In accordance with regulatory Movement in annualised contracted rent: requirements, Ernst & Young LLP rotates the senior statutory auditor responsible for the audit every five years and this was last Quarterly Income Changes with details of lease activity in the changed in 2013.
There are currently no contractual obligations quarter: that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
However, in light of recent FRC guidance on audit tenders, the requirement for a FTSE Rent collection percentages: 350 Company to put its audit out to tender every ten years and EU Rental arrears: rules on the provision of non-audit services, the Audit Committee conducted an audit tender process during 2015.
This process Detailed quarterly financial reporting detailing out the main involved the submission of a detailed tender document followed reason for revenue movements in the quarter.
by Committee interviews with Audit firms invited to tender.
Following the audit tender process, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee concluded that, given the controls and recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP should be appointed reporting in place throughout the year, the rental income number as the auditor for the group for the year ending 31 December included in the financial statements of 69,558,000 was 2016, subject to shareholders approval.
Details of the amounts appropriate.
paid to Ernst & Young LLP during the year for audit fees is set out in note 3 to the accounts.
Review of Auditor The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee, In relation to non-audit fees, these amounted in aggregate to which also considers the terms under which the external auditor is 60,250 2014: 54,000 for the year ended 31 December 2015 appointed to perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and and related principally to costs in connection with tax returns, tax independence of the auditor is safeguarded by obtaining structuring and due diligence on the purchase of Brixton Radlett assurances from the auditor that adequate policies and Property Limited, a UK Company acquired during the year that procedures exist within its firm to ensure the firm and its staff are owned the asset at Ventura Park, Radlett.
All of these services were independent of the Company by reason of family, finance, deemed by the Committee to be beneficial to the operational and employment, investment and business relationships other than in tax position of the Group.
Where any non-audit fee is expected to the normal course of the business and enforcing a policy exceed 25,000, the Company operates a policy under which concerning the provision of non-audit services by the auditor specific prior approval must be given by the Committee.
which governs the types of work which are excluded.
The Audit Notwithstanding the provision of such non-audit services, the Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit including Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent, the following areas: given the safeguards put in place by Ernst & Young LLP to ensure independence.
Quality of audit work including ability to resolve issues in a timely manner: Recommendation to the Board Working relationship with the Committee and Manager: Following its review of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015, the Audit Committee has advised Suitably qualified personnel involved in the audit: the Board that its considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and Cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the provides the information necessary for shareholders and other auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
users to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The performance and effectiveness of the auditors in relation to the above points was considered through a formal evaluation The Audit Committee is able to give this advice on the basis that it template completed by the Committee and the Managers.
has carefully scrutinised the Annual Report and Accounts document, which is prepared by the Manager and subsequently The Audit Committee considers that it received all necessary subject to external audit, specifically focusing on the significant information from the Companys service providers as well as from issues detailed in this Report.
In its consideration of the document, the external auditor in order for it to compile the necessary the members of the Audit Committee put themselves in the disclosures.
The Committee noted the full co-operation of all position of a shareholder and considered carefully whether the parties in producing the Annual Report and no difficulties or comments made are consistent with their view of the overall disagreements were observed.
Following the completion of the performance of the Company during the period under audit, the Audit Committee and Board followed a systematic 32 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 33 consideration.
Specifically, consideration has been given to the Financial and Property Highlights section to ensure that the points raised in this have been selected so as to give a fair picture of the Companys position and that the performance data in the document has not been selected so as to give a misleadingly optimistic view of the Company.
The Audit Committee has also critically reviewed the Investment Managers report to ensure that the comments made in this are consistent with their knowledge of the Company and with the figures in the accounts.
As with any Company, there are some elements in the accounts that are inevitably more complex than others and the Audit Committee has been at pains to have these expressed in clear language so as to make them as understandable as possible.
Ken McCullagh Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 April 2016 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 33
