Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 65 Audit Committee Report Governance Audit Committee Report As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during the year.
John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee I am delighted to have assumed the role of Composition effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Chairman of the Audit Committee the The composition of the Committee is set out on control, including financial reporting, and the Committee this past year and I would like to page 58.
The Chairman of the Committee has processes for assessing business risks and thank Chris Bailey for his years of leadership of the recent and relevant financial and accounting monitoring and managing the impact of the the Committee.
Ultra is committed to ensuring experience required by the Code.
He is risks facing the Group that it has robust and effective risk management supported in his role by the other members of The Committee has written terms of reference and control processes.
As Chairman of the the Committee who have a wide range of which include all matters recommended by the Committee, I am pleased to present our report business experience and expertise, as evidenced Code.
These terms of reference are reviewed detailing the role and responsibilities of the in their biographies on page 53. and approved by the Board annually and are Committee and its activities during the year that available on the Groups website Meetings and attendance support this.
The Boards report on the systems www.
The Committee met five times during the year of internal control and their effectiveness can be under review.
In addition to the members of the The Board is kept fully informed of the found in the Corporate Governance Report on Committee, regular attendees were: the Committees work and the minutes of each pages 56 to 64.
An assessment of the Groups Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Committee meeting are circulated to Board principal risks and uncertainties, can be found Group Finance Director and the Group Marketing members.
on pages 36 to 41 and together with the going Director.
The Company Secretary & General concern and long-term viability statements, can Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee.
be found in the Strategic Report on page 27.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte is the Groups external During the year, the Committee continued to auditor.
To ensure full and open communication, review the appropriateness of the Groups Deloitte was represented at all scheduled system of risk management and internal Committee meetings, and the lead partner from controls, the robustness and integrity of the PwC attended those meetings at which key Groups financial reporting, along with both the findings from internal audit reports were internal and external audit processes.
A risk and rotational based approach is taken by During 2015, the Chairman of the Committee Ultra is committed to the Company in determining its internal audit met with Deloitte and PwC in the absence of plan, thereby ensuring the plan is clearly linked to Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In ensuring it has robust and the Companys strategy and flexible enough to addition, the Committee met with Deloitte effective risk management highlight and address emerging risks.
The focus in without Executive Directors present, where 2015 continued to be on the Groups Business Deloitte reported on its views of the Groups and control processes.
Continuity and IT Disaster Recovery processes, as financial management process and any matters well as working capital management and controls that they thought should be brought to the in integrating new businesses.
In addition, the attention of the Committee.
Company worked with  Role LLP PwC, the Companys internal auditor, to The Committees main responsibilities include: improve the Companys risk management Scrutinising the Groups annual and interim processes in line with the Code.
Further details on financial statements and accounts and reporting Ultras risk management processes can be found to the Board on the significant financial on pages 61 and 62. reporting issues and judgements made In 2015, the significant issues at the forefront of Reviewing the content of the Annual Report & the Committees deliberations were: valuation Accounts and advising the Board whether, and impairment testing of goodwill and taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and intangible assets: and accounting and disclosure understandable and provides the information in relation to the changes to the Groups necessary for shareholders to assess the operations in the Middle East.
The Committee Companys position and performance, business also considered the impact that the Groups model and strategy adoption of S3 would have in enhancing the Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
external audit process, including negotiating I am pleased to present the Committees Report the terms of the external auditors for 2015. appointment, scope, fees and independence and supervising any audit tender process John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the adequacy and 6.
Introduction 66 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Audit Committee Report continued Governance Audit Committee Report continued Activities of the Committee during the year Topic What was considered Financial reporting Annual and interim financial statements and related results announcements Reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their audit process Key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group, key accounting judgments and matters that required the exercise of significant management judgment The going concern statement see page 27 The long-term viability statement see page 27 Risk management Review of the principal risks, the Groups risk appetite and risk metrics.
Consideration of their alignment to the achievement of Ultras strategic objectives Assessment of the key controls in place and future planned management actions to address the risks Approval of the updated Risk Management Framework Further details of the approach to risk management and the new Risk Management Framework can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 61 and 62 Internal controls Reports on the internal control environment and risk management and their effectiveness Review of compliance with the Groups Business Continuity and IT Disaster Recovery Policies Internal Controls Improvement Status Report which summarise the results from the six monthly Divisional Control review meetings Internal audit Internal audit plan for the year Summary reports from the risk-based reviews Summary reports from the rotational reviews Progress reports on the implementation of remedial actions Regulatory and accounting update EU Audit Reform and the need for audit reports to contain key risk observations from 2016 Financial reporting update Adoption of FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework External auditor The external auditors engagement policy, independence and effectiveness Review of audit and non-audit fees The external audit plan for the year Governance The Committees terms of reference Significant financial judgements and How the Committee addressed these judgements financial reporting for 2015 Oman Airport IT Contract termination and The Committee considered the judgements taken in accounting for the termination event and the liquidation of Ithra liquidation including provisions for all known liabilities, revenue recognition, recoverability of assets, the treatment of the minority interest, and the associated disclosures presented in this Annual Report.
Revenue and profit recognition on the largest The Committee assessed the risk control processes and approval practices adopted when determining long-term contracts in the Group revenue and profit recognition.
Valuation of goodwill and intangibles The Committee reviewed the methodology and assumptions used to determine the balance sheet values.
The Committee also considered reports from, and held discussions with, the external auditors.
Retirement benefit plans The Committee reviewed the main assumptions used in determining the defined benefit post retirement obligation.
Internal audit taken to address the risks when they next visit the Institute of Chartered Accountants of PwC are appointed by Ultra as its internal auditor.
Scotland in October 2007 to assess performance, The Committee uses internal audit as its key effectiveness and independence and concluded The effectiveness of internal audit is assessed by resource for gaining independent assurance on the that Deloitte had been sufficiently transparent the review of internal audit reports, meetings with effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The and incisive and the audits had been effective.
the Chairman of the Committee without internal audit plan and resources are considered management being present and views from senior The Committee concluded that Deloitte was and monitored by the Committee, together with management and the Group Finance Director.
both independent and objective and that the all internal control findings and remedial actions.
re-appointment of Deloitte as external auditor External auditor The lead partner of PwC reports directly to the should be recommended to the shareholders.
The performance, effectiveness and Chairman of the Committee and presents the Accordingly, a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte independence of the Companys auditor, findings twice annually to the Committee.
will be put to shareholders at the 2016 Annual Deloitte, are reviewed annually by the Progress reports on follow-up remedial actions General Meeting.
The Committee considered the are reported regularly to the Committee.
PwC questions contained in a questionnaire issued by confirms whether appropriate action has been Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 67 Audit Committee Report continued External auditor continued the Group Finance Director has authority to highlighted and require explanation by the The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte on commission the external auditor to undertake business unit concerned.
The Chief Executive and the Groups audit is subject to a strict policy of non-audit work where there is a specific Group Marketing Director also attend such regular rotation such that there is a change in this project with a cost that is not expected to divisional business reviews as the case requires.
role at least once every five years.
Any individual assignments The internal control framework that is in place is accordance with professional practice guidelines.
with an estimated fee in excess of 50,000 supplemented by the external audit process which The current senior audit partners tenure must be referred in advance to the Chairman represents a second independent review of commenced in 2011 and therefore a new audit of the Committee for his approval.
All noncontrols and procedures, with selective transaction partner will be appointed in 2016.
Deloitte was audit work has to be reported to the testing of higher risk areas.
There is a fraud appointed in 2002.
The Committee considers that Committee at its next meeting: and reporting process in place.
All cases of fraud would for an organisation of the size and complexity of be immediately investigated and the situation before commissioning non-audit services, the Ultra, the tendering of external audit must be well reported to the Committee and the Board.
Group Finance Director or the Chairman of planned to ensure that the Group complies with the Committee, as appropriate, must ensure Whistleblowing best practice corporate governance as well as that there is no issue as regards independence An independently hosted Employee Hotline ensuring the Group receives a high quality, efficient and objectivity and that other potential EthicsPoint is used to provide a process for and effective external audit service.
In particular, the providers are adequately considered.
Such concerns can be Committee does not consider it is appropriate to The effectiveness of the external audit process is filed anonymously.
Employees are informed of consider tendering the external audit at the same assessed by the Committee, which meets this process through posters which are time as recruiting and inducting a new Group regularly throughout the year with the senior translated into local languages and through the Finance Director and therefore considers it would audit partner and senior audit managers.
Key to Group intranet which is accessible by all be appropriate to conduct an external audit the overall effectiveness of the process is that employees.
Activities were undertaken in 2015 tender by no later than 2023 at which point both the Company and the auditor make the to republicise EthicsPoint to increase awareness Deloitte would be precluded from being Ultras other aware of accounting and financial and engender a culture where employees feel external auditor.
The Company is in compliance reporting issues as and when they arise, and this comfortable raising ethical dilemmas.
Employee with the requirements of the Statutory Audit exchange is not limited to the period in which concerns are forwarded to the Chairman of the Services for Large Companies Market formal audit and review engagements take place.
Committee or, in the case of issues covered by Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive US security legislation, to the Chairman of the Tender Processes and Audit Committee This general approach is supported by a formal Security Committee of either Ultras Special Responsibilities Order 2014 and the Code.
feedback request process whereby each of the Security Agreement company or Ultras Proxy businesses in the Group are requested to There are no contractual obligations that restrict Board company, as appropriate.
During 2015, feedback comments on the audit process, the the Committees choice of external auditor.
13 reports were submitted two in 2014 which performance of the auditor and any The auditors engagement letter and the scope were investigated and dealt with appropriately.
recommendations for the audit process going of the years annual audit cycle is discussed in Ultra views the increase in reports as an forward.
A debrief meeting is then held with advance by the Committee, ensuring that any illustration of the success of its activities in 2015 Deloitte to discuss the results of the feedback changes in circumstances arising since the to republicise EthicsPoint and create a more and agree on any measures for improvement of previous year are taken into account.
With respect open and ethical workplace.
to non-audit services undertaken by Deloitte, Ultra The Committee believes that sufficient and has a policy to ensure that the provision of such Anti-bribery appropriate information is obtained from the services do not impair Deloittes independence or Ultra has robust anti-bribery policies and feedback request to form an overall judgment on objectivity.
The policy states that: procedures in place.
All Directors and employees the effectiveness of the external audit process.
are required to sign Ultras code of conduct on non-audit services are restricted to regulatory anti-bribery and commit to act in accordance reporting, consultancy services associated with The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of audit and with it.
Within one week of joining Ultra, all financial restructuring, responding to new non-audit services are shown in note 98 to the Directors and employees undertake anti-bribery reporting requirements, due diligence Financial Statements.
Further anti-bribery training is given to assessments of potential acquisitions and minor The Group has a policy on employment of targeted groups throughout the year.
In connection with due former employees of the external auditor.
This with the code of conduct on anti-bribery is diligence work and tax consultancy, it is the requires that any such employment is considered closely monitored by a requirement for Ultra Boards view that the auditors familiarity with on a case by case basis and takes into account businesses to submit monthly business the Companys accounting practices and the the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards performance reports confirming compliance with techniques that are involved in the Companys on such appointments.
Such appointment the code of conduct and reporting any breaches.
long-term contracting activities serves them requires approval by a combination of the Group The Group intranet contains a statement from well in carrying out such work: Finance Director, the Committee and the Board, the Chief Executive regarding compliance with when considering the use of the external depending on the seniority of the appointment.
auditor to undertake non-audit work, consideration must be given to the provisions The Audit Report was approved by the Board on Fraud of the Financial Reporting Council Guidance 26 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: The internal audit process carried out by PwC, on Audit Committees with regard to the described on page 62, and the Groups internal John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee preservation of independence and objectivity: control framework help to protect the Group the external auditor must certify to the against fraud.
Regular business reviews take place Company that they are acting independently: at all businesses, in which detailed balance sheet and cash flow reviews are carried out by the in providing a non-audit service, the external relevant Divisional Managing and Financial auditor should not: Directors.
In addition, the Group Finance Director audit their own work: and Group Chief Operating Officer review the make management decisions for performance of the businesses with the Divisional the Company: team monthly and directly with the businesses at create a mutuality of interest: or least twice a year.
Significant differences between find themselves in the role of advocate forecast and reported financial results are for Ultra: 6.
