GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER The Boards have delegated the operational running of the Group to the CEO with the exception of the following matters which are ABOUT UNILEVER reserved for the Boards: structural and constitutional matters, Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever PLC PLC, together with their corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall group companies have, since the Unilever Group was formed in strategy for the Group, approval of significant transactions or 1930, operated as nearly as practicable as a single economic arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures entity.
This is achieved by special provisions in the Articles of and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, litigation, financing Association of NV and PLC, together with a series of agreements and pensions.
The CEO is responsible to the Boards and is able to between NV and PLC which are together known as the Foundation delegate any of his powers and discretions which he does to Agreements described below.
These agreements enable Unilever members of the ULE.
The ULE is chaired by and reports to the to achieve unity of management, operations, shareholders rights, CEO.
The biographies of ULE members are on page 59. purpose and mission and can be found on our website.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of The Boards have established four Board Committees: the the shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate as if they held shares in a single company and also regulates the Responsibility Committee and the Nominating and Corporate mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
The terms of reference of these agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same financial periods Committees can be found on our website and the reports of and accounting policies.
each Committee, including attendance at meetings in 2015, can The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their be found on pages 60 to 83. respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for www.
com committees the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses THE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER the intention being to create and maintain a common operating Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, platform for the Group throughout the world.
The Deed also contains Vice-Chairman, CEO and other corporate officers and how our provisions for the allocation of assets between NV and PLC.
Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing delegate their authorities are set out in the document entitled between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website.
guarantee the borrowings of the other and the others subsidiaries.
The Governance of Unilever also describes the Foundation These arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for Agreements, Directors appointment, tenure, induction and certain significant borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our training, Directors ability to seek independent advice at Unilevers combined financial strength.
expense and details about Board and Management Committees Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic including the Disclosure Committee.
interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
com corporategovernance However, NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange listings.
Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the shares of the other.
More information on the exercise of voting BOARD EFFECTIVENESS rights can be found in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective Notices of Meetings, all of which can be found on BOARD MEETINGS our website.
A minimum of five face-to-face meetings are planned throughout the calendar year to consider, for example, the half-year and full-year Throughout this report when referring to NV shares or shareholders the term shares or shareholder also encompasses a depositary receipt or results announcements of the Group and the Annual Report and a holder of depositary receipts.
Other Board meetings and telephone conferences are held to discuss matters that arise as well as Group strategic issues.
com legalstructure Meetings of the Boards may be held either in London or in Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, with one or two BOARDS off-site Board meetings a year.
The Chairman sets the Boards The Boards of NV and PLC have ultimate responsibility for the agenda, ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear management, general affairs, direction, performance and information, and promotes effective relationships and open long-term success of our business as a whole.
The Boards are communication between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
one-tier boards, the same people are on both Boards and the responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account In 2015 the Boards met physically in January, March, April, July, their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive September and November and considered important corporate Directors.
The majority of the Directors are Non-Executive events and actions, such as: Directors who essentially have a supervisory role.
Until 1 October developing and approval of the overall strategy: 2015 Unilever continued to have two Executive Directors, the Chief oversight of the performance of the business: Executive Officer CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, who are review of risks and internal risk management and also members of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE.
control systems: Jean-Marc Hut, the CFO, resigned with effect from 1 October authorisation of major transactions: 2015.
His successor as CFO, Graeme Pitkethly, became a member declaration of dividends: of the ULE and the CFO on 1 October 2015 and will be proposed convening of shareholders meetings: to be appointed as an Executive Director at the 2016 AGMs.
nominations for Board appointments, including Chairman and CFO succession: A list of our current Directors, their roles on the Boards, their review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: and dates of appointment and their other major appointments is set out review of corporate responsibility and sustainability, on page 58. in particular the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ATTENDANCE APPOINTMENT The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board In seeking to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, meetings in 2015.
If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions which they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are with the Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the number of presented with the same candidates for election as Directors.
meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Anyone being elected as a Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice versa.
Therefore, if an individual fails Main Board to be elected to both companies he or she will be unable to take his or her place on either Board.
a Michael Treschow 8 8 b Ann Fudge 8 8 The report of the Nominating and Corporate Governance c Paul Polman 8 8 Committee NCGC on pages 64 and 65 describes the work d Jean-Marc Hut 5 6 of the NCGC in Board appointments and recommendations for e Nils Andersen 4 4 re-election.
In addition, shareholders are able to nominate Laura Cha 6 8 f Directors.
The procedure for shareholders to nominate Directors Vittorio Colao 3 4 is contained within the document entitled Appointment procedure Louise Fresco 8 8 g Byron Grote 4 4 for NV and PLC Directors which is available on our website.
To do e Judith Hartmann 4 4 so they must put a resolution to both the NV and PLC AGMs in line Mary Ma 7 8 with local requirements.
Directors are appointed by shareholders Hixonia Nyasulu 7 8 by a simple majority vote at each AGM.
g Sir Malcolm Rifkind 2 4 John Rishton 7 8 www.
com boardsofunilever Feike Sijbesma 7 8 g Kees Storm 3 4 DIRECTOR INDUCTION AND TRAINING g Paul Walsh 4 4 All Directors receive induction on joining the Boards and a new, and a more comprehensive, induction programme was put in place in Chairman b Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director with effect from 30 April 2015 2015.
The Chairman ensures that ongoing training is provided for c Executive Director Directors by way of site visits, presentations and circulated updates d Executive Director until his resignation with effect from 1 October 2015 at and between Board and Board Committee meetings on, among e Appointed to the Boards with effect from 30 April 2015 other things, Unilevers business, environmental, social, corporate f Appointed to the Boards with effect from 1 July 2015 governance, regulatory developments and investor relations g Retired from the Boards on 30 April 2015 matters.
Details of the training provided to the Directors in 2015 can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MEETINGS The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the INDEPENDENCE AND CONFLICTS Executive Directors present, to consider specific agenda items As the Non-Executive Directors make up the Committees of set by them, usually four or five times a year.
In 2015 they met six the Boards, it is important that they can be considered to be times.
The Chairman, or in his absence the Vice-Chairman and independent.
Each year the Boards conduct a thorough review Senior Independent Director, chairs such meetings.
of the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or connected persons, relevant relationships referencing the criteria set out BOARD EVALUATION in The Governance of Unilever which is derived from the Each year the Boards formally assess their own performance with relevant best practice guidelines in the Netherlands, UK and US.
the aim of helping to improve the effectiveness of both the Boards The Boards currently consider all our Non-Executive Directors and the Committees and at least once every three years an to be independent of Unilever.
independent third party facilitates the evaluation.
The last external evaluation was performed in 2014.
The evaluation consists of We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest individual interviews with the Directors by the Chairman and, when between NV and PLC and their respective Directors.
The Boards relevant, by the external evaluator.
These interviews complement ensure that there are effective procedures in place to avoid our annual process of completion by all Directors of three conflicts of interest by Board members.
If appropriate, confidential online evaluation questionnaires on our Boards, CEO authorisation of situational conflicts is given by the Boards to the and Chairman.
In this years evaluation the Board questionnaire relevant Director.
The authorisation includes conditions relating to was simplified and shortened and invited comments on a number keeping Unilever information confidential and to the Directors of key areas including Board responsibility, operations, exclusion from receiving and discussing relevant information at effectiveness, training and knowledge.
The Chairmans Statement Board meetings.
Situational conflicts are reviewed annually by the on page 4 describes the key actions agreed by the Boards Boards as part of the determination of Director independence.
between those reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Boards of any relevant changes to the situation.
A Director may not vote on, In addition to the evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, each year or be counted in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of the the Chairman conducts a process of evaluating the performance Boards in respect of any situation in which he or she has a conflict and contribution of each Director which includes a one-to-one of interest.
The procedures that Unilever has put in place to deal performance and feedback discussion with each Director.
The with conflicts of interest operate effectively.
evaluation of the performance of the Chairman is led by the Vice-Chairman and Senior Independent Director and the Chairman Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and the Group leads the evaluation of the CEO, both using bespoke questionnaires.
of senior executives acting as directors of other companies but, Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves annually under to ensure outside directorships of our Executive Directors do supervision of their respective Chairmen taking into account the not involve an excessive commitment or conflict of interest, the views of respective Committee members and the Boards.
The key number of outside directorships of listed companies is generally actions agreed by each Committee in this years evaluation can be limited to one per Executive Director and approval is required from found in each Committee Report.
46 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015
