REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS, MEMBERSHIP STATUS APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS AND ATTENDANCE Reappointment: Non-Executive Directors normally serve for a maximum of nine years.
The schedule the Committee uses for ATTENDANCE orderly succession planning of Non-Executive Directors can be found on our website at www.
All existing Feike Sijbesma 8 8 Executive and Non-Executive Directors, unless they are retiring, Chair since April 2015 submit themselves for evaluation by the Committee every year.
The Chairman will inform the Committee of the outcomes of his Kees Storm Chair until April 2015 2 2 discussions with each Director on individual performance.
Based Laura Cha Member since April 2015 8 8 upon the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and the Michael Treschow 10 10 continued good performance of individual Directors, the Committee Sir Malcolm Rifkind Member until April 2015 2 2 recommends to each Board a list of Directors for re-election at the relevant companys AGMs.
In 2015, Byron Grote, Sir Malcolm This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their Rifkind, Kees Storm and Paul Walsh decided not to put themselves attendance at meetings during 2015.
If Directors are unable to attend a forward for re-election at the 2015 AGMs in April 2015.
The meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda Committee proposed the reappointment of all other Directors.
items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number of Directors are appointed by shareholders by a simple majority vote meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
The Committee also recommends to the Boards candidates for HIGHLIGHTS OF 2015 election as Chairman and Vice-Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
After being reappointed as Non-Executive Directors at the Recommendations for new Non-Executive Directors 2015 AGMs, Ann Fudge became the Vice-Chairman and Senior Planning for Chairman succession Independent Director, and the following appointments of Committee Monitoring of emerging Corporate Governance developments Chairs were made: John Rishton Audit Committee, Ann Fudge Compensation Committee and Feike Sijbesma Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Louise Fresco remained as PRIORITIES FOR 2016 Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Chairman succession and induction Appointment: When recruiting, the Committee will take into Develop pipeline of potential Non-Executive and Executive account the profile of Unilevers Boards of Directors set out in The Director candidates Governance of Unilever which is in line with the recommendations Participating in the FRC corporate culture project of applicable governance regulations and best practice.
Pursuant to the profile the Boards should comprise a majority of NonROLE AND MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE Executive Directors who are independent of Unilever, free from any The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is conflicts of interest and able to allocate sufficient time to carry out responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, experience, their responsibilities effectively.
With respect to composition and independence and knowledge on the Boards and for drawing qualities, the Boards should be in keeping with the size of Unilever, up selection criteria, ongoing succession planning and its portfolio, culture and geographical spread and its status as a appointment procedures.
It also has oversight of all matters listed company, and the Boards should have sufficient financial relating to corporate governance and brings any issues in this literacy.
The objective pursued by the Boards is to have a variety respect to the attention of the Boards.
of age, gender, expertise, social background and nationality and, wherever possible, the Boards should reflect Unilevers consumer The Committees terms of reference are set out in The base and take into account the footprint and strategy of the Group.
Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website at In addition, the Non-Executive Directors in aggregate should have www.
During the year, the sufficient understanding of the markets where Unilever is active Committee reviewed its own terms of reference to determine in order to understand the key trends and developments relevant whether its responsibilities are properly described.
terms became effective on 1 January 2016.
In 2015, the Committee engaged the services of Russell Reynolds The Committee is comprised of two Non-Executive Directors Associates and MWM Consulting both executive search agencies and the Chairman.
The Group Secretary acts as secretary to which also assist Unilever with the recruitment of senior the Committee.
Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2015 executives to assist with the recruitment of new Non-Executive or part thereof were the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief HR Directors with the appropriate skills and expertise.
Officer and relevant external search agencies.
In the early part of the year, the Committee reviewed candidates In 2015 the Committee met ten times.
At the start of the year the presented by the agency, or recommended by Directors, an Committee considered the results of the Committees annual interview process was followed and the Committee ultimately self-evaluation for 2014 and its priorities for the year and used recommended to the Boards that Nils Andersen, Vittorio Colao these to help create an annual plan for meetings for 2015. and Judith Hartmann all be nominated as new Non-Executive Directors at the 2015 AGMs.
In April 2015 the AGMs resolved to appoint Nils and Judith with immediate effect and to appoint Vittorio with effect from 1 July 2015.
Nils, Judith and Vittorio have further strengthened the financial and digital expertise and industry experience of the Boards.
64 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Succession Planning: In consultation with the Committee, DIVERSITY POLICY the Boards review both the adequacy of succession planning Unilever has long understood the importance of diversity within processes and the actual succession planning at each of Board our workforce because of the wide range of consumers we and ULE level.
This goes right through our organisation, starting with the Boards.
The Boards feel that, whilst gender is The Committee, on behalf of the Boards, continued during 2015 an important part of diversity, Unilever Directors will continue to work on succession planning for the Boards given that Michael to be selected on the basis of their wide-ranging experience, Treschow the Chairman and Hixonia Nyasulu were expected backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight.
to retire in April 2016, each having then served for the maximum nine years.
Unilevers Board Diversity Policy, which is reviewed by the Committee each year, can be found on our website at Chairman Succession: Having agreed in the 2014 Board and www.
The Committee also Committee evaluation process that the Committee should give reviewed and considered relevant recommendations on diversity fuller feedback to the Boards on the appointment process of and remains pleased that over 50% of our Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors the Committee actively engaged with the are women.
Boards in 2015 on the profile of a future Chairman.
The Boards agreed that the main accountabilities of Unilevers CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS Chairman were that the Chairman should chair the shareholder The Committee reviews relevant proposed legislation and meetings, oversee the overall strategy, act as a sounding board changes to relevant corporate governance codes at least twice a for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors, plan year.
It carefully considers whether and how the proposed laws for succession of all Board members, keep all communication rules would impact upon Unilever and whether Unilever should open between the Boards and set an example of integrity and participate in consultations on the proposed changes.
ethical leadership for the entire Unilever Group.
In addition, in For example, during 2015 the subject of beneficial ownership view of Unilevers objectives and activities, it was important to the transparency and the new proposed legislation in the United Committee and the Boards that the profile of the new Chairman Kingdom were considered by the Committee as was the progress included a proven track record as a CEO, deep knowledge of of the European Shareholder Rights Directive.
industry, experience of working at more than one company, ability to spend sufficient time in Europe and support for the Unilever EVALUATION Sustainable Living Plan.
As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2015, During the search, the experience of each potential candidate was the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The matched against the profile agreed by the Boards, the views of Committee also carried out an assessment of its own performance Russell Reynolds and MWM on the shortlists of candidates drawn in 2015.
Whilst overall the Committee members concluded that up by the Committee were shared with the Boards, and the the Committee is performing well, the Committee has agreed to preferred candidate met with all Directors.
further enhance its effectiveness by developing the pipeline of potential Non-Executive and Executive Director candidates.
Unilever Leadership Executive: During 2015, the Committee consulted with the Chief Executive Officer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior management changes, including changes to the ULE.
In particular, the Committee was consulted on the appointments of Graeme Pitkethly and Amanda Feike Sijbesma Sourry to the ULE and the appointment of Graeme as the new Chief Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Financial Officer with effect from 1 October 2015 when Jean-Marc Governance Committee Hut ceased to be an Executive Director and hence ceased to hold Laura Cha executive office.
Michael Treschow Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 65
