CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REQUIRED MAJORITIES Non-Financial Performance Indicator: In determining the level Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC General and structure of the remuneration of the Executive Directors, Meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are among other things, the results, the share price performance other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs and non-financial indicators relevant to the long-term objectives Articles of Association.
For example, there are special of the Company, with due regard for the risks to which variable requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the remuneration may expose the enterprise, shall be taken into Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the account bpp II.
2.3. alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only responsibility and sustainability and is keen to ensure focus on key be made by the NV Board.
A proposal to alter the Articles of financial performance measures which we believe to be the drivers Association of PLC can be made either by the PLC Board or by of shareholder value creation and relative total shareholder return.
requisition of shareholders in accordance with the UK Companies Unilever therefore believes that the interests of the business and Act 2006.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in PLCs shareholders are best served by linking our long-term share plans Articles of Association, PLCs Articles of Association may be to such measures as described above, which are further set out in amended by a special resolution.
Proposals to alter the provisions the Directors Remuneration Report pages 66 to 83, and has in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively relating to therefore not included a non-financial performance indicator.
the unity of management require the prior approval of meetings of Risk Management and Control: With regard to financial reporting the holders of the NV special ordinary shares and the PLC deferred risks, as advised by the Audit Committee as described in its stock.
The Articles of Association of both NV and PLC can be found report on pages 60 and 61, the NV Board believes that the risk on our website.
management and control systems provide reasonable assurance www.
com corporategovernance that the financial statements do not contain any errors of material importance and the risk management and control systems have RIGHT TO HOLD SHARES worked properly in 2015 bpp II.
The statements in this Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on the paragraph are not statements in accordance with the requirements right to hold NV and PLC shares.
There are no limitations on the of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of Retention Period of Shares: The Dutch Code recommends that NV and PLC imposed by Dutch or English law.
shares granted to the Executive Directors without financial consideration shall be retained for a period of at least five years or until at least the end of the employment, if this period is shorter bpp II.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE Our Remuneration Policy requires Executive Directors to build and GENERAL retain a personal shareholding in Unilever.
In addition, Executive We conduct our operations in accordance with internationally Directors are required to hold 100% of the shares needed to accepted principles of good governance and best practice, whilst maintain their minimum shareholding requirement until 12 months ensuring compliance with the corporate governance requirements after they leave Unilever and 50% of these shares for 24 months applicable in the countries in which we operate.
Unilever is subject after they leave Unilever.
to corporate governance requirements legislation, codes and or Severance Pay: It is our policy to set the level of severance standards in the Netherlands, the UK and the US and in this payments for Directors at no more than one years salary, section we report on our compliance against these.
unless the Boards, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable given circumstances MATERIAL CONTRACTS or unless otherwise dictated by applicable law bpp II 2.8.
Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of Financing Preference Shares: The voting rights of the 6% and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Unilever is required 7% cumulative preference shares issued by NV are based on to provide information on contracts and other arrangements their nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
NV agrees essential or material to the business of the Group.
Other than the with the principle in the Dutch Code that the voting rights of any Foundation Agreements referred to on page 45, we believe we do newly issued preference shares should be based on their not have any such contracts or arrangements.
economic value rather than on their nominal value bpp IV.
1.2, but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of its outstanding THE NETHERLANDS preference shares.
NV complies with almost all of the principles and best practice Corporate Governance Statement: NV is required to make a provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Dutch Code, statement concerning corporate governance as referred to in which is available on the Commissie Corporate Governances article 2a of the decree on additional requirements for annual website.
reports Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften inhoud www.
nl jaarverslag with effect from 1 January 2010 the Decree.
The information required to be included in this corporate governance Certain large Dutch companies with a two-tier board are required statement as described in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree can to strive for a balanced composition of their management and be found on our website.
supervisory boards, to the effect that at least 30% of the positions on the management and supervisory boards are held by women www.
com corporategovernance and 30% by men.
The rule does not acknowledge one-tier boards, but NV confirms that over 30% of its Directors were female and over 30% of its Directors were male in 2015.
Statements required by the Dutch Code and explanations of the NV compliance position are set out below.
50 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 THE UNITED KINGDOM Our GHG data does not include minor emissions sources that are PLC, being a company that is incorporated in the UK and listed beyond our boundary of operational control or that are not on the London Stock Exchange, is required to state how it has material.
For example, emissions of CO from energy used in our 2 applied the main principles and how far it has complied with the offices and warehouses are excluded, although we continue to provisions set out in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code drive improvements in these areas through our USLP targets.
The UK Code, which is available on the Financial Reporting Councils data also excludes Scope 3 emissions including consumer use of FRC website.
In 2015 PLC complied with all UK Code provisions, our products which we report as part of our USLP.
with the exception of D. 2.1 for a short period of time, as explained www.
com sustainable-living on page 82. www.
uk Employee Involvement and Communication: Unilevers UK Risk Management and Control: Our approach to risk companies maintain formal processes to inform, consult and management and systems of internal control is in line with the involve employees and their representatives.
A National recommendations in the FRCs revised guidance Risk Consultative Forum comprising employees and management management, internal control and related financial and business representatives meets regularly to provide a forum for discussing reporting the Risk Guidance.
It is Unilevers practice to review issues relating to all Unilever sites in the United Kingdom.
We acquired companies governance procedures after acquisition recognise collective bargaining on a number of sites and engage and to align them to the Groups governance procedures as soon with employees via the Sourcing Unit Forum, which includes as is practicable.
national officer representation from the three recognised trade Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions: In line with the Companies Act unions.
A European Works Council, embracing employee and 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 management representatives from countries within Europe, has our greenhouse gas performance is set out below.
Since 2008 we been in existence for several years and provides a forum for report our CO emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas discussing issues that extend across national boundaries.
2 GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard The Directors Reports of the United Kingdom operating GHG Protocol to calculate emissions of carbon dioxide from the companies contain more information about how they have combustion of fuels and the operation of facilities Scope 1 and communicated with their employees during 2015. from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2 for our manufacturing facilities.
Changes to the GHG Protocol for Equal Opportunities and Diversity: In accordance with our Scope 2 reporting during this reporting year will be implemented Code of Business Principles, Unilever aims to ensure that in subsequent years.
applications for employment from everyone are given full and fair consideration and that everyone is given access to training, Carbon emission factors are used to convert energy used in development and career opportunities.
Every effort is made to manufacturing to emissions of CO.
Carbon emission factors for 2 retrain and support employees who become disabled while fuels are provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate working within the Group.
Independent Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors: Carbon emission factors for electricity reflect the country or To the best of each of the Directors knowledge and belief, and sub-region where each manufacturing site is located and are having made appropriate enquiries, all information relevant to provided by the International Energy Agency IEA and local enabling the auditors to provide their opinions on PLCs regulatory authorities, for example the United States consolidated and parent company accounts has been provided.
Environmental Protection Agency US EPA.
We have selected Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable steps to ensure an intensity ratio based on production: this aligns with our their awareness of any relevant audit information and to establish long-standing reporting of manufacturing performance.
that Unilever PLCs auditors are aware of any such information.
The GHG data relates to emissions during the 12-month period from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015.
This period is different from that for which the remainder of the Directors Report is prepared which is the calendar year 2015.
EMISSIONS OF CO FROM MANUFACTURING, 2 1 OCTOBER 2014 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 1 OCTOBER 2013 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2014 # Scope 1 852,672 tonnes CO 929,803 tonnes CO 2 2 # Scope 2 918,301 tonnes CO 920,483 tonnes CO 2 2 # Total Scope 1 & 2 1,770,973 tonnes CO 1,850,286 tonnes CO 2 2 Intensity ratio 88.49 kg CO per tonne of production 2 # 92.14 kg CO per tonne of production 2 # Prior year restated to exclude third party site.
For further details and the basis of preparation see our website.
Emissions data includes material sources of Scope 1 and 2 emissions that have been subject to external assurance, ie emissions of CO from energy used in manufacturing.
Emissions 2 from the combustion of biogenic fuels biomass, fuel crops etc at our manufacturing sites are reported separately to other Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as recommended by the GHG Protocol, and excluded from our intensity ratio calculation.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED THE UNITED STATES Risk Management and Control: Following a review by the Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Disclosure Committee, Audit Committee and Boards, the CEO NYSE.
As such, both companies must comply with the and the CFO concluded that the design and operation of the requirements of US legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Groups disclosure controls and procedures, including those of 2002, regulations enacted under US securities laws and the defined in the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Listing Standards of the NYSE, that are applicable to foreign Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December 2015 were effective, and that private issuers, copies of which are available on their websites.
subsequently until 17 February 2016 the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Boards there have been no www.
gov significant changes in the Groups internal controls, or in other www.
com factors that could significantly affect those controls.
We are substantially compliant with the Listing Standards of the Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley NYSE applicable to foreign private issuers except as set out below.
Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.
This requirement will be reported on We are required to disclose any significant ways in which our separately and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report on corporate governance practices differ from those typically Form 20-F. followed by US companies listed on the NYSE.
Our corporate governance practices are primarily based on the requirements of the UK Listing Rules, the UK Code and the Dutch Code but substantially conform to those required of US companies listed on the NYSE.
The only significant way in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under Section 303A Corporate Governance Standards of the NYSE is that the NYSE rules require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions thereto, with certain limited exemptions.
The UK Listing Rules require shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans only if new or treasury shares are issued for the purpose of satisfying obligations under the plan or if the plan is a long-term incentive plan in which a director may participate.
Amendments to plans approved by shareholders generally only require approval if they are to the advantage of the plan participants.
Furthermore, Dutch law and NVs Articles of Association require shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans only if the Executive Directors are able to participate in such plans.
Under Dutch law, shareholder approval is not required for material revisions to equity-compensation plans unless the Executive Directors participate in a plan and the plan does not contain its own procedure for revisions.
Attention is drawn to the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 60 and 61.
In addition, further details about our corporate governance are provided in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website.
All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared their understanding of and compliance with Unilevers Code of Business Principles and the related Code Policies.
No waiver from any provision of the Code of Business Principles or Code Policies was granted in 2015 to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC requirements.
No material amendments were made to the Code of Business Principles or related Code Policies in 2015.
Our Code of Business Principles can be found on our website.
com corporategovernance 52 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015
