56 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement Board matters Throughout the financial year ended At every Board meeting standing agenda items include: 31 December 2015, the Board considers that it and the Company have complied with the The Chief Executives Report which covers the Groups operational performance, particular provisions set out in the September 2014 performance issues in each division and any compliance matters edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Group Finance Directors Report which covers financial forecasts for the half and full year the Code.
The Code is issued by the Financial and reviews of: financial performance: banking covenants: and analysts views of the Group, Reporting Council and is publicly available on major shareholdings and major share buyers and sellers their website www.
This corporate governance section of the Annual Report & Major Project Reports Accounts describes how we have applied the Group Marketing Directors Report main principles of the Code.
Human Resources Report Role of the Board The role of the Board is to provide effective Review of current acquisition activity and approval of any offers for proposed acquisitions leadership and direction in delivering the key corporate objective to outperform the market in Other important topics which are covered on a routine basis during the year include: terms of annual increases in shareholder return.
Approval of annual and interim financial statements and accompanying regulatory announcements The Executive Directors set the Group strategy which is subject to challenge before final Review and approval of the annual budget agreement by the Board.
The Board ensures that Approval of the Groups dividend policy, the payment of the interim dividend and the adequate controls are in place, including recommendation of the final dividend calibrating risk appetite and maintaining oversight of Ultras risk management processes.
Review reports from the Boards Committees, including recommendations from the Audit The Board also receives and reviews regular Committee in respect of: the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal Compliance Reports.
The Board encourages the control statement: the adoption of the going concern statement: the long term viability Groups businesses to behave ethically and statement: impairment and the re-appointment of the Auditors properly at all times and engenders a culture of Review and approval of major capital investment projects and bids fairness to customers, suppliers and employees.
It is the function of the Groups management, A full day Board meeting devoted wholly to the review of the five-year strategic plan and through the Chief Executive and his Executive principal risks, with presentations given by the Executive Team and discussions held on Team, to run the operations of the Group.
significant matters identified in the proposed plan.
Actions from this meeting are followed up in subsequent Board meetings and two scheduled half-day Board strategy meetings In addition to the ten scheduled Board meetings, the Board held unscheduled Board Six-monthly reviews of Compliance Reports prepared by Divisional Managing Directors and meetings in the year.
This enabled detailed Presidents which summarise the compliance matters in the Business Performance Reports discussions and a robust risk review of the submitted each month by the business MDs and Presidents termination of the Oman Airport IT contract, Annual reviews of health, safety and environment reports summarising the position across Ultras strategy for the Middle East and the all Group businesses acquisition of the Electronic Products Division of Kratos Defense & Security Solutions now Effectiveness of internal controls known as Ultra Electronics Herley.
Review of the risk register and the Groups insurance programme A summary of some of the Boards key Post acquisition reviews responsibilities and activities is set out opposite and the full range of Board responsibilities are Policy reviews including offset and Directors expenses policy detailed in the document entitled Terms of Board evaluation References for Main Board which is available from the Investors section of the Groups Consideration of Non-Executive Directors fees website www.
Review of the terms of reference of the Board and the Board Committees Corporate governance updates Other important matters addressed by the Board in 2015 included: Divisional changes and adoption of the market segment strategies see page 12 Proposal to close the defined benefit scheme to future accruals see page 26 Standardisation and shared services see page 5 Consideration of the Groups operations in the Middle East Risk Management Framework see pages 61 and 62 Succession and talent management Review of the Companys loan facilities The Cyber Protection Groups role in mitigating the Groups cyber security risk see page 38 Appointment of Investec Bank plc as joint corporate broker alongside J. P. Morgan Cazenove Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 57 Corporate Governance Report continued How the way we are governed supports the delivery of our strategy Good governance is crucial to ensuring we are well managed and can deliver our strategy.
The Board Chairman: Douglas Caster: Senior Independent Director: Sir Robert Walmsley All the Directors are collectively responsible for the success of Ultra.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent and objective judgement and for scrutinising and challenging management.
The Board is responsible for approving our strategy and policies, for oversight of risk and corporate governance, and for ensuring expected returns on investment are made from leveraging our portfolio strength.
The Board is accountable to our shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and our long-term success.
It represents the interests of all stakeholders.
Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 52 and 53.
The Board has delegated certain key responsibilities to three Committees see below and the Chief Executive see below.
The responsibilities of each Committee are in line with the recommendations of the Code and the detailed terms of reference of each Committee are available from the Investors section of the Groups website www.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman: Douglas Caster Chairman: John Hirst Chairman: Martin Broadhurst Talented people are critical to the delivery of the To deliver the Groups strategy we must have We seek to reward senior management Groups strategy.
The Nomination Committee sound financial and non-financial controls.
competitively to enable Ultra to recruit, met four times in 2015 to: The Audit Committee met five times in 2015. motivate and retain executives of a high calibre whilst avoiding making excessive remuneration Recommend appointments to the Board and Full details of the activities of the Audit payments.
The Remuneration Committee met Board Committees Committee during 2015 are given in the four times in 2015. Review the succession planning process for Audit Committee Report on pages 65 to 67. senior executives Full details of the activities of the Remuneration In 2016, the focus of the Audit Committee will Commence the recruitment process for the Committee during 2015 are given in the be to review: Group Finance Director role see page 59 Remuneration Report on page 79.
The bid process Review its terms of reference In 2016, the focus of the Remuneration Project management of long-term contracts Committee will be to review: The Boards policy on diversity is described on Business Continuity Planning and IT Disaster The Directors Remuneration Policy for page 59.
Recovery submission to the shareholders at the 2017 The embedding of the Risk Management In 2016, the focus of the Nomination AGM i. e. at the end of the original three-year Framework within the businesses Committee will be to: policy period Oversee the Group Finance Director New employee share plans for shareholder recruitment process approval at the 2017 AGM Review the developments made by the Company in improving talent management Review the Director induction process Chief Executive: Rakesh Sharma The Executive Team comprises: Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: Group Marketing Director: Chief Operating Officer: Group Human Resources Director: Company Secretary & General Counsel: and the Divisional Managing Directors Presidents of the three divisions The Executive Team is the body through which the Chief Executive exercises the authority delegated to him by the Board.
It considers major business issues and makes recommendations to the Chief Executive, and typically reviews those matters which are to be submitted to the Board for its consideration.
The Chief Executive is responsible for establishing the Executive Team and chairing the Executive Team meetings.
Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
In this regard, the Group has the benefit of an independent Ethics Overview Committee.
The Group has issued a Policy Statement on Ethics and Business Conduct available from the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website: www.
Ethics Overview Committee Three independent members: David Shattock Chairman : Martin Bell: and Major General retired Tim Cross Three Ultra members: Chief Executive: Company Secretary & General Counsel: and Divisional Managing Director Communications & Security Further details about the Ethics Overview Committee are given on page 49.
Introduction 58 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board meetings stage.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance When a scheduled Board meeting is not held in Financial results for operating businesses, each Director explain the significance of any major the month, the Directors receive the following division and the Group are provided to the Board impacts on the financial performance and draw information: a summary financial report for the monthly and presented at every scheduled Board the Boards attention to any significant trends or Group comprising consolidated financial meeting.
Comprehensive briefing papers are deviations from budget revealed by forecasts of information and business financial information: circulated to the Directors in advance of each future performance.
summary financial reports from each of the Board meeting to enable an informed debate to businesses: and a shareholder analysis summary Other significant matters that require formal take place.
Acquisition opportunities are report on Ultra.
Board approval which are routinely presented by presented to the Board by the appropriate the appropriate business include major bids, The Executive Team as a whole meets the Board Divisional Managing Director President.
This updates on key strategic initiatives and major annually to present the proposed Strategic Plan enables a full discussion of the merits and risks of capital and private venture development for the next five years.
This is then debated with any acquisition proposal to take place at an early expenditure proposals.
the Directors, changes agreed and a final plan is approved.
In addition, in line with the areas of focus from the 2014 Board evaluation see page 60, there were two additional annual half-day Board strategy sessions in the year.
The scheduled Board meetings are rotated around the sites of the operating businesses at which the Board undertake site tours and are given product demonstrations.
During 2015, the Board visited four operating businesses in the UK.
The Board held one of the Board meetings at one of its North American businesses, following a tour by the Non-Executive Directors of some of the North American operations.
The Board receives presentations by Ultras business units detailing recent performance, key opportunities and future forecasts.
This gives the Non-Executive Directors a good practical insight into the operating businesses.
Product demonstrations and site tours take place, giving the Non-Executive Directors a good practical insight into operating businesses.
They also conduct individual visits to businesses.
Meeting attendance 2015 short notice or because of prior commitments, The table below shows attendance by Directors they received and read papers for consideration at the Board and Committee meetings.
To the at the relevant meeting, relayed their comments extent Directors were unable to attend meetings, in advance and, where necessary, followed up because unscheduled meetings were called at with the Chairman on the decisions made.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Actual inclusive of unscheduled Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Board meetings possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Chairman Douglas Caster 21 21 5 5 4 4 4 4 Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma 21 21 5 5 3 3 3 3 Executive Directors 1 Mary Waldner 20 21 5 5 - - - - 1 Mark Anderson 19 21 2 2 - - - - Non-Executive Directors 1 2 3 Chris Bailey 10 11 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 Martin Broadhurst 20 21 5 5 4 4 4 4 1 John Hirst 20 21 3 3 3 3 3 3 1 2 Sir Robert Walmsley 19 21 5 5 3 4 4 4 1 Mark Anderson and Sir Robert Walmsley were each unable to attend two unscheduled Board meetings and Chris Bailey, Martin Broadhurst, John Hirst and Mary Waldner were each unable to attend one unscheduled Board meeting.
2 Chris Bailey and Sir Robert Walmsley were unable to attend one unscheduled Remuneration Committee meeting.
3 Chris Bailey ceased to attend Board and Committee meetings following his resignation at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
By invitation Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 59 Corporate Governance Report continued Board composition Board tenure and independence Chairman 1 Experience on Executive Directors 3 Tenure years Independence other plc boards Non-Executive Chairman Directors 3 Douglas Caster 5 No Yes Non-Executive Directors Martin Broadhurst 3.5 Yes No John Hirst 1 Yes Yes Throughout 2015, the Board structure was in Sir Robert Walmsley 7 Yes Yes line with the Code.
Executive Directors Diversity Rakesh Sharma 5 No No Ultra continues to follow its overriding policy of Mary Waldner 2.5 No Yes appointing the best person for a particular role, regardless of sex, race, nationality, disability, Mark Anderson 4 No No sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion or beliefs.
The Board contends that a board Douglas Caster holds Non-Executive Director positions in Morgan Advanced Materials plc since composed of the right balance of skills, January 2015 and Metalysis Limited since February 2014. experience and diversity of views is best placed to support a company in its strategic objective.
Board roles Insurance The Board has considered in detail the There is a clear division of responsibilities The Group maintains an appropriate level of requirements of the Code regarding gender between the Chairman, the Chief Executive and Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover in diversity.
In selecting the best person for a role, the Senior Independent Director.
This formal respect of legal action against its Directors.
the Board gives active consideration to the division of responsibilities has been agreed by benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
Board appointments the process the Board and is summarised in a table which is However, setting diversity target aspirations, In making appointments to the Board, the available from the Investors section of the especially by specific dates, can distort the Board, through the Nomination Committee, is Groups website www.
selection process and conflict with its preferred, careful to identify the skills, knowledge and diversity-aware best person for the role Non-Executive Directors experience needed for each role and to approach.
You can read more about Ultras Martin Broadhurst, John Hirst and Sir Robert complement the existing skills mix provided by initiatives to improve diversity across the Group, Walmsley are the Groups independent other Board members.
To ensure selection from including information on the gender split across Non-Executive Directors.
Chris Bailey had served the widest possible talent pool, it is Ultras the Board, Executive Team and the Group as a on the Board for over ten years and retired as normal practice to engage the services of whole, in the sustainability sections of our Non-Executive Director at the 2015 Annual independent external search consultants in Strategic Report on page 50.
John Hirst became a recruiting new Directors.
The Board skills and experience Following a tender process the executive search Board considers all Non-Executive Directors to The Board has a balance of skills, understanding, firm Russell Reynolds Associates was engaged to be independent.
In assessing independence, the perspectives and experience relevant to the identify potential candidates for the position of Board considers that they are independent of Groups activities.
The Board collectively Group Finance Director following the notice from management and free from business and other possesses a deep understanding of the Groups Mary Waldner of her intention to leave the relationships which could interfere with the core defence, security, transport and energy Group.
The search firm does not have any other exercise of independent judgment, now and in markets.
This is complemented by its members connection with the Company.
The Chairman has also considered the experience and expertise in other industries and specification and selection criteria was determined Non-Executive Directors performance in the year disciplines including procurement, accountancy, by the Nomination Committee and required the and has determined them to be effective and to financial management and growing candidate to: be a qualified accountant, have have demonstrated commitment to their roles.
This range of skills and experience in corporate financial matters and The Board believes that any shareholdings of the experience informs the Boards decision-making have: extensive senior level accounting Chairman and Non-Executive Directors serve to and enables it to provide effective leadership.
experience: significant leadership and managerial align their interests with those of all shareholders.
The particular skills and experience that each experience: technical appreciation and knowledge The key role of the Non-Executive Directors, along Director brings to the Board are described in of long-term contract accounting: and strategic with the Chairman, is to provide an appropriate their biographies on pages 52 and 53. thinking skills.
The curriculum vitaes of the level of challenge and constructive criticism to the shortlisted candidates will be considered by the Executive Directors, excluding the Chief plans of the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Nomination Committee and a subcommittee will Executive, have been permitted to accept one Directors met without the Chairman or Executive interview the short listed candidates and select appointment as a Non-Executive Director in Directors being present during the year to those candidates to go through to final interview.
Going forward, the discuss aspects relating to the Board and the All members of the Nomination Committee will Group will extend this to include the Chief Company and appropriate feedback was given.
be invited to attend the final interviews.
The Board considers that such roles On behalf of the Company, the Non-Executive this process, the Nomination Committee will meet enrich the skills and experience of its Executive Directors are active in developing relationships at to agree upon the successful candidate before any Directors to the benefit of the Company.
a senior level with the Companys key suppliers, recommendation is put to the Board.
Executive Directors are permitted to retain any customers and business partners.
fees from such external appointments.
The recruitment process for the appointment of John Hirst as Non-Executive Director was set out in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Ultras succession planning process is described in detail on page 48.
Introduction 60 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Directors induction and training for the Groups style and culture.
John Hirst pensions and tax.
Specific training is arranged for All new appointments to the Board receive a joined Ultra as Non-Executive Director on 1 Directors as and when appropriate.
The Directors comprehensive induction to the Group covering January 2015.
In addition to receiving a full are able to call on independent professional the Groups strategy, governance framework, induction pack, he undertook an induction advice at any time should this be necessary in policies and procedures, the products and programme of visits to various businesses across order for them to carry out their duties.
services of the Groups businesses, the key the Group and meetings with management Board evaluation markets in which the businesses operate, the teams of those businesses.
He also met with the The Chairman commissions  key risks which the Group faces together with Groups internal and external auditors.
Board evaluations run the actions and plans which are in place to The Directors induction programme will be on a two year cycle.
One year, the effectiveness mitigate against these, corporate and reviewed in 2016 in advance of the appointment of the Board and its Committees is evaluated.
organisational structure, financing principles and of the new Group Finance Director.
The following year, individual Directors legal and regulatory issues.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel performance is evaluated.
Programmes of visits to Group businesses are annually presents to the Board on corporate Following an evaluation of the effectiveness of arranged.
It is important for these to encompass governance.
The Board is briefed on significant the Board and its Committees in 2014, the 2014 as many businesses as possible, since Ultras changes in the law or governance codes Annual Report and Accounts set out the areas of businesses cover a broad range of capabilities.
affecting their duties as Directors.
An update on progress made New Directors are encouraged to meet business present to the Board on specialist areas, such as on these actions is set out in the table below.
and divisional management teams to gain a feel Board evaluation action points Focus Actions Progress Increased strategic focus In addition to the annual off-site meeting Half-day Board strategy sessions were held in dedicated to strategy, there will be two additional April and July and the full day Board strategy annual half-day Board strategy sessions.
session focused on the strategy for the new market segments.
The Chief Executive will provide the Board with a written summary of strategic matters prior to The Chief Executive provides his reports in writing each Board meeting.
to the Board as part of the Board pack issued in advance of each meeting.
There will be an increased focus on strategy in the businesses presentations to the Board.
Business presentations to the Board highlight how they fit with the applicable segment strategy.
Succession planning for senior managers The Board will receive annually a report on the The Nomination Committee met in July to succession planning and career progression of discuss succession planning and career senior employees.
progression for senior employees and considered the skills and qualities needed to support the Groups organic growth and the tools and training available to develop these skills.
Progress made in this area will be considered by the Nomination Committee in 2016.
Continued improvements to risk management A review of the Companys risk management The Group engaged PwC to carry out a review processes processes in light of the Codes new of risk management processes and their report requirements will be undertaken.
was considered by the Board and the Audit Committee.
Further details of the Groups management of risk are provided on pages 61 and 62.
In November 2015, Mr Telfer of Auxesis The review concluded that each Director Ultra to set up his own consultancy and so was Consulting Ltd undertook an assessment of contributed effectively and demonstrated able to facilitate the evaluation from a position of individual Directors performance.
All Directors commitment to the role.
There is an appropriate having a good understanding of the Group and completed a detailed questionnaire requiring balance of skills, experience, independence, its culture.
He provides a valuable insight into them to give feedback on their fellow Board diversity and knowledge of the Company to Ultras challenges and needs and is able to assess members contribution.
The objective of the enable the Directors to discharge their respective the Board and its Committees in the context of process was to encourage the improved duties and responsibilities effectively.
performance and effectiveness of the Board.
A Commitment of time by all Directors for Board Annual re-election of Directors report of the results was given to the Chairman and Committee meetings and other duties was All the Directors will stand for re-election at the of the Board, detailing any significant points also considered sufficient for the effective Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2016. pertaining to the individual Directors and discharge of their responsibilities.
The Chairman broader issues regarding the combined strengths will meet with each Director to discuss their and weaknesses of the Board.
Mr Telfer individual reports and the Board will discuss reviewed the report with the Chairman to initiatives to enhance the operation of the Board.
discuss possible actions arising and the feedback Mr Telfer has considerable experience of working to be provided to individual Directors.
He was the Human Resources feedback reports were given to each Director.
Director of Ultra up until June 2004 when he left Regulators External audit Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 61 Corporate Governance Report continued Conflicts of interest Each enhancement to our risk management Assurance from management that a particular The Company has in place procedures for approach has further embedded risk risk is owned by the individual best positioned managing conflicts and potential conflicts of consideration as part of the culture of the Group.
to control mitigate that risk interest.
The Companys Articles of Association Driving business improvements and improved This evolution of our risk maturity is something also contain provisions to allow the Directors to intelligence for key decision making we will continue in 2016 with particular focus on: authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of Support and development of our reputation as Ensuring consistent application of the new interest so that a Director is not in breach of his a well governed and trusted organisation Risk Management Framework at a Divisional or her duty under UK company law.
If Directors and individual business level become aware of a conflict or potential conflict The key components of the Risk Management of interest they should notify in line with the Further work on considering risk in aggregation Framework are: Companys Articles of Association.
Directors have More detailed quantification, deep dives and Oversight structure and accountability The risk a continuing duty to update any changes to their scenario analysis on our principal risks management oversight structure has been conflicts of interest.
Directors are excluded from developed using the principles of the three lines On going review of the risk appetite metrics to the quorum and vote in respect of any matters in of defence a simple but well established identify any potential breaches before they arise which they have a conflict of interest.
No material governance and internal control model and conflicts were reported by Directors in 2015.
Risk management ensures risk is considered from both a top down The Board, supported by the Audit Committee and a bottom up perspective with risk Risk management and internal control and the Executive Team, has overall information captured at a strategic, divisional The Board has overall responsibility for responsibility for implementing an effective risk and individual business levels.
establishing, monitoring and maintaining an management approach.
Process The risk management process is a effective system of risk management and The overall approach is governed by the Risk consistently applied approach across each level internal control.
In accordance with the Code Management Framework which is supported by of the business.
It is focused on risk the Board confirms that: a guiding principle of ensuring the consideration identification using cause and effect analysis, There is a continuing process for identifying, of risk is embedded into the culture and inherent pre controls and residual post evaluating and managing the principal risks behaviours of the way Ultra operates.
controls assessment, control identification and faced by the Group see principal risks on The Risk Management Framework facilitates the the development and implementation of further pages 36 to 41 following objectives: mitigation strategies.
The systems have been in place for the year Identification, measurement, control and As part of this process, risk appetite is considered under review and up to the date of approval reporting of risks that can undermine the for each of the principal risks, allowing the Board of this Annual Report and Accounts business model, future performance, solvency to clearly set out the nature and extent of the The systems are regularly reviewed by the Board or liquidity of the Group risk the Group is willing to accept in pursuit of The systems accord with the FRC guidance on the Groups strategic objectives.
Better allocation of efforts and resources for the risk management, internal control and related management of principal and emerging risks financial business reporting During 2015 the Board has directly, and through The risk management process delegated authority to the Executive Team and the Audit Committee, overseen and reviewed Board and Committees the performance and evolution of the approach to risk management and internal control.
Through this involvement, the Board is satisfied Executive Team that the risk management and internal control systems are in place and effective.
Divisions Whilst the review did not identify any significant weaknesses in the system of internal control Aerospace & Infrastructure there were some improvements identified Communications & Security during the year to enhance further the overall Maritime & Land approach to risk management.
The particular enhancements made included: The implementation of a formal Risk First Line Second Line Third Line Management Framework that sets out Ultras risk and control Group and independent challenge processes as part of Divisional oversight to the levels of assurance approach to risk management business as usual provided by management Group Board & Committees A re-fresh of the strategic risk profile using a on the effectiveness of Group Operating Manual oversight and challenge governance, risk more detailed risk assessment criteria to setting out policies & Executive Team oversight management and internal reflect a robust assessment of the principal processes and challenge controls risks see principal risks on pages 36 to 41 Training and development Divisional business Internal Audit Regulatory and compliance performance reviews provided by PwC The development of risk appetite statements requirements Divisional Control Review Other independent assurance and supporting metrics for each principal risk Risk registers meetings activities e. g. Health, safety identified Six monthly Compliance and environment audits Reports The introduction of Risk Champions to Review of monthly Business support the identification, capture, assessment Performance Reports including and management of risk at each division Financial Performance Co-ordination of the implementation of the Risk Management Framework provided by Deloitte 6.
Introduction 62 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Risk Management continued Summary results from these reviews are Annual programme Escalation, monitoring and reporting A clear included in the Internal Controls Improvement A full programme of engagement with escalation criteria is in place to ensure changes Status Report, which is presented to the Audit shareholders, potential investors and analysts is to risk exposure are notified through the Committee twice a year.
undertaken each year by the Executive Directors.
Risk leads are Ultra organises focused events and or site visits Operational controls identified for all risks who have the responsibility to provide greater insight into the strengths and The Group Operating Manual which is for ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of potential of its extensive portfolio of specialist communicated across Ultra sets out the current controls and the progress against the capabilities.
These range from introductory mandatory Group policies and procedures implementation of further mitigating actions.
briefings on the Group as a whole to to be followed.
The risk reporting flow is based on a combination presentations on specific areas of capability.
The Managing Directors and Presidents, Finance of annual, bi-annual, quarterly and monthly Visits and presentations in the year included a Directors and Vice Presidents of Finance of each reporting to the Board, Audit Committee, presentation to shareholders and to analysts in business are required to give a formal written Executive Team and Divisional individual June 2015.
At this event the Directors gave representation to the Board each year businesses management teams.
presentations on the reorganisation of market confirming that they accept responsibility for Details of the Groups principal risks and how segments, standardisation and shared services maintaining effective internal controls in line they are being managed or mitigated is provided and the acquisition of what is now known as with the Group Operating Manual and that they on pages 36 to 41.
In addition, Ultra invited have disclosed full details of any fraud or investors and members of the financial Financial control suspected fraud within their business.
community to the Defence and Security The Group has in place internal control and risk Internal audit Equipment International exhibition where a management arrangements in relation to the The Board maintains an internal audit process, significant proportion of the Groups products Groups financial reporting processes and the carried out by PwC, to review financial and and capabilities were exhibited.
preparation of its consolidated accounts.
The information systems control procedures arrangements include procedures to ensure the Meetings are held with institutional investors and throughout the Group.
The internal audit plan is maintenance of records which accurately and financial analysts after the release of the interim a combination of Group-wide risk-based reviews fairly reflect transactions to enable the and full year financial results, at which detailed and a rolling rotational individual business preparation of financial statements in briefings are given.
These briefings are also programme.
All significant individual businesses accordance with International Financial available from the Investors section of the Groups are audited at least once every two years, while Reporting Standards or UK Generally Accepted website www.
com, together other businesses are audited on a three-year Accounting Principles, as appropriate, with with copies of all regulatory announcements, press cycle.
In addition, all newly acquired individually reasonable assurance.
They also require reported releases and copies of the published full year and operating businesses are audited within a year of data to be reviewed and reconciled, with Interim Reports and Accounts.
Where required, additional appropriate monitoring internally and by the audits are identified during the year in response The Board is regularly updated by the Audit Committee.
to changing priorities and requirements.
Companys stock broker on analysts and major Business Performance Reports comparing shareholders views on the Company.
The Board All internal audit findings are graded and actuals, budget, forecasts and prior year are receives a report at each Board meeting on any appropriate remedial actions, responsibilities and prepared for all businesses on a monthly basis changes to the holdings of the Companys main timescales are agreed with management.
and reviewed where relevant by the Divisional institutional shareholders.
Progress is monitored and reported through the Finance Director, Group Finance Director, Audit Committee.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual members of the Executive Team and the Board.
General Meeting on 29 April 2016 where they When preparing and reviewing financial Shareholder communication have the opportunity to meet with Directors and information, the businesses do not work to a Commitment to dialogue to ask questions.
All variances judged to be The Board is committed to a high-quality dialogue Voting at the Annual General Meeting is significant are investigated and explained.
The Executive Directors lead in conducted by way of a show of hands.
Proxy votes In addition to this, there is a Group-wide process this respect.
The Chairman, Senior Independent lodged for each Annual General Meeting are specifically for monitoring financial controls and Director and other Non-Executive Directors are announced at the meeting and published on the risks.
Management have delegated control available to meet with shareholders on request.
ownership to each of the businesses and In 2015, the Remuneration Committee Electronic communication with shareholders is established a framework for reporting whether considered the views of one institutional preferred wherever possible since this is both the controls are designed and operating shareholder on applying a holding requirement more efficient and environmentally friendly.
Every six months, Divisional Control to long-term incentives and agreed to However, shareholders may opt to receive hard Review DCR meetings, which are attended by implement the changes outlined on page 68. copy communication if they wish.
the Group Finance Director, each Divisional The Company wrote to shareholders on Finance Director and PwC are held.
19 January 2016 advising them of the Companys At the DCR meetings, the internal controls decision to adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure processes and issues for each business are Framework FRS 101 and to take advantage discussed.
These include: of the permitted election to the disclosure Results from the Senior Accounting Officer exemptions allowed under FRS 101.
The review and any tax audits consolidated financial statements of the Group Self-assessment against the Group Operating continue to be prepared in accordance with Manual International Finance Reporting Standards IFRSs.
Outstanding internal and external audits Segregation of duties and IT access audits Compliance with the Groups Information Security Policy Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 63 Corporate Governance Report continued Shareholder analysis The majority of Ultras shares are held by institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and other members of the Executive Team have significant holdings in the Company, including shares awarded through share option or long-term incentive schemes.
Introduction 64 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for the maintenance The Directors are responsible for preparing the and integrity of the corporate and financial Annual Report and the financial statements in information included on the Groups website accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Company law requires the Directors to prepare dissemination of financial statements may differ financial statements for each financial year.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in We confirm that to the best of our knowledge, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the taken as a whole: European Union and Article 4 of the The financial statements, prepared in International Accounting Standards Regulation accordance with the relevant financial reporting IAS and have elected to prepare the Companys framework, give a true and fair view of the financial statements in accordance with United assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting loss of the Company and the undertakings Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards included in the consolidation taken as a whole and applicable law including FRS 101.
Under The Strategic Report includes a fair review of company law, the Directors must not approve the development and performance of the the accounts unless they are satisfied that they business and the position of the Company and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs the undertakings included in the consolidation, and of the profit or loss of the Company as well together with a description of the principal as the undertakings included in the risks and uncertainties that they face consolidation for that period.
The Annual Report and financial statements, In preparing the Companys financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and the Directors are required to: understandable and provide the information Select suitable accounting policies and then necessary for shareholders to assess the apply them consistently Companys performance, business model and strategy Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent The Annual Report including the Strategic Report State whether applicable UK Accounting and Directors responsibilities statement on Standards have been followed subject to any pages 1 to 83 was approved by the Board on material departures disclosed and explained in 26 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: the financial statements Rakesh Sharma, Chief Executive Prepare the financial statements on the Mary Waldner, Group Finance Director going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
