GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER The Boards have delegated the operational running of the Group to the CEO with the exception of the following matters which are ABOUT UNILEVER reserved for the Boards: structural and constitutional matters, Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever PLC PLC, together with their corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall group companies have, since the Unilever Group was formed in strategy for the Group, approval of significant transactions or 1930, operated as nearly as practicable as a single economic arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures entity.
This is achieved by special provisions in the Articles of and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, litigation, financing Association of NV and PLC, together with a series of agreements and pensions.
The CEO is responsible to the Boards and is able to between NV and PLC which are together known as the Foundation delegate any of his powers and discretions which he does to Agreements described below.
These agreements enable Unilever members of the ULE.
The ULE is chaired by and reports to the to achieve unity of management, operations, shareholders rights, CEO.
The biographies of ULE members are on page 59. purpose and mission and can be found on our website.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of The Boards have established four Board Committees: the the shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate as if they held shares in a single company and also regulates the Responsibility Committee and the Nominating and Corporate mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
The terms of reference of these agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same financial periods Committees can be found on our website and the reports of and accounting policies.
each Committee, including attendance at meetings in 2015, can The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their be found on pages 60 to 83. respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for www.
com committees the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses THE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER the intention being to create and maintain a common operating Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, platform for the Group throughout the world.
The Deed also contains Vice-Chairman, CEO and other corporate officers and how our provisions for the allocation of assets between NV and PLC.
Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing delegate their authorities are set out in the document entitled between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website.
guarantee the borrowings of the other and the others subsidiaries.
The Governance of Unilever also describes the Foundation These arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for Agreements, Directors appointment, tenure, induction and certain significant borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our training, Directors ability to seek independent advice at Unilevers combined financial strength.
expense and details about Board and Management Committees Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic including the Disclosure Committee.
interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
com corporategovernance However, NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange listings.
Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the shares of the other.
More information on the exercise of voting BOARD EFFECTIVENESS rights can be found in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective Notices of Meetings, all of which can be found on BOARD MEETINGS our website.
A minimum of five face-to-face meetings are planned throughout the calendar year to consider, for example, the half-year and full-year Throughout this report when referring to NV shares or shareholders the term shares or shareholder also encompasses a depositary receipt or results announcements of the Group and the Annual Report and a holder of depositary receipts.
Other Board meetings and telephone conferences are held to discuss matters that arise as well as Group strategic issues.
com legalstructure Meetings of the Boards may be held either in London or in Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, with one or two BOARDS off-site Board meetings a year.
The Chairman sets the Boards The Boards of NV and PLC have ultimate responsibility for the agenda, ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear management, general affairs, direction, performance and information, and promotes effective relationships and open long-term success of our business as a whole.
The Boards are communication between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
one-tier boards, the same people are on both Boards and the responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account In 2015 the Boards met physically in January, March, April, July, their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive September and November and considered important corporate Directors.
The majority of the Directors are Non-Executive events and actions, such as: Directors who essentially have a supervisory role.
Until 1 October developing and approval of the overall strategy: 2015 Unilever continued to have two Executive Directors, the Chief oversight of the performance of the business: Executive Officer CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, who are review of risks and internal risk management and also members of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE.
control systems: Jean-Marc Hut, the CFO, resigned with effect from 1 October authorisation of major transactions: 2015.
His successor as CFO, Graeme Pitkethly, became a member declaration of dividends: of the ULE and the CFO on 1 October 2015 and will be proposed convening of shareholders meetings: to be appointed as an Executive Director at the 2016 AGMs.
nominations for Board appointments, including Chairman and CFO succession: A list of our current Directors, their roles on the Boards, their review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: and dates of appointment and their other major appointments is set out review of corporate responsibility and sustainability, on page 58. in particular the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 45
