REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE oversight of risk management and internal control arrangements: oversight of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: ATTENDANCE oversight of the external auditors performance, objectivity, qualifications and independence: the approval process of John Rishton 8 8 non-audit services: recommendation to the Boards of their Chair since April 2015 nomination for shareholder approval: and approval of their fees, refer to note 25 on page 135: Byron Grote Chair until April 2015 5 5 the performance of the internal audit function: and Judith Hartmann Member since April 2015 3 3 approval of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE expense Mary Ma 8 8 policy and the review of Executive Director expenses.
Hixonia Nyasulu 8 8 In order to help the Committee meet its oversight responsibilities, This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their each year management organise knowledge sessions for the attendance at meetings during 2015.
If Directors are unable to attend Committee on subject areas within their remit.
In 2015, sessions a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda on legislative developments in tax and the reporting and assurance items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number methods used for the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan were held.
of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
In addition, both Byron Grote and John Rishton visited one of our key accounting and reporting centres in Bangalore.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2015 HOW THE COMMITTEE HAS DISCHARGED ITS RESPONSIBILITIES During the year, the Committees principal activities were as follows: Annual Report and Accounts Viability assessment FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-Financial KPIs The Committee reviewed the quarterly financial press releases Impact of upcoming tax regulations together with the associated internal quarterly reports from the Chief IT security and data privacy Financial Officer and the Disclosure Committee, and with respect IT resilience to the half-year, and full-year results the external auditors reports, prior to their publication.
They also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Report on Form 20-F.
These reviews PRIORITIES FOR 2016 incorporated the accounting policies and significant judgements Exchange rate management and estimates underpinning the financial statements as disclosed Non-Financial KPIs within note 1 on pages 94 and 95.
Particular attention was paid to the IT security and data privacy following significant issues in relation to the financial statements: Tax strategy and reporting revenue recognition estimation of discounts, incentives on sales made during the year, refer to note 2 on page 96: direct tax provisions and contingencies, refer to note 6 on pages MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE 106 to 108: and The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Nonindirect tax provisions and contingencies, refer to note 19 Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such on page 129 members.
It is chaired by John Rishton.
The composition of the Committee changed after the AGMs in April 2015 when Byron Grote The external auditors have agreed the list of significant issues left the Committee and Judith Hartmann joined the Committee.
At that discussed by the Audit Committee.
time John Rishton took over the Chairmanship of the Committee from For each of the above areas the Committee considered the key Byron Grote.
The other members are Mary Ma and Hixonia Nyasulu.
facts and judgements outlined by management.
Members of For the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 John Rishton management attended the section of the meeting of the Committee is the Audit Committees financial expert.
The Boards have satisfied where their item was discussed to answer any questions or themselves that the current members of the Audit Committee are challenges posed by the Committee.
The issues were also competent in financial matters and have recent and relevant discussed with the external auditors and further information can experience.
Other attendees at Committee meetings or part thereof be found on page 86.
The Committee was satisfied that there are were the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor, Group Controller, Chief relevant accounting policies in place in relation to these significant Legal Officer, Group Secretary and the external auditors.
Throughout issues and management have correctly applied these policies.
the year the Committee members periodically met without others present and also held separate private sessions with the Chief At the request of the Boards the Committee undertook to: Financial Officer, Chief Auditor and the external auditors, allowing review the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis the Committee to discuss any issues in more detail directly.
of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements: and assess whether the business was viable in accordance with ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE the new requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out The assessment included a review of the principal risks facing in written terms of reference which are reviewed annually by Unilever, their potential impact, how they were being managed, the Committee taking into account relevant legislation and together with a discussion as to the appropriate period for the recommended good practice.
The terms of reference are assessment.
The Committee recommended to the Boards that contained within The Governance of Unilever which is available there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to on our website at www.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due The Committees responsibilities include, but are not limited to, over the three-year period of the assessment.
the following matters with a view to bringing any relevant issues At the request of the Boards the Committee also considered to the attention of the Boards: whether the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced oversight of the integrity of Unilevers financial statements: and understandable and whether it provided the necessary review of Unilevers quarterly and annual financial statements information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and including clarity and completeness of disclosure, and approval performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was of the quarterly trading statements for quarter 1 and quarter 3: 60 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2015 Annual Report and Both Unilever and KPMG have safeguards in place to avoid the Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
possibility that the external auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised, such as audit partner rotation and the RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS restriction on non-audit services that the external auditors can The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk perform as described below.
The Committee reviewed the report management and control, and its processes, outcomes and from KPMG on the actions they take to comply with the professional disclosure.
It reviewed: and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure the Controllers Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report, their independence from Unilever.
including Code of Business Principles cases relating to frauds Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the and financial crimes and significant complaints received external audit process which includes discussing feedback through the Unilever Code Support Line: from the members of the Committee and stakeholders at all the 2015 corporate risks for which the Audit Committee had levels across Unilever.
Interviews are also held with key senior oversight and the proposed 2016 corporate risks identified management within both Unilever and KPMG.
by the ULE: managements improvements to reporting and internal The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, audit related and financial control arrangements: non-audit related services provided by KPMG and compliance with processes related to cyber security, information management Unilevers documented approach, which prescribes in detail the and privacy: types of engagements, listed below, for which the external auditors tax planning, insurance arrangements and related can be used: risk management: statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries: treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: and audit related engagements services that involve attestation, litigation and regulatory investigations.
assurance or certification of factual information that may be required by external parties: The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements non-audit related services work that our external auditors under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with are best placed to undertake, which may include: respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
In addition, tax services all significant tax work is put to tender: the Committee reviewed the annual financial plan and Unilevers acquisition and disposal services, including related due dividend policy and dividend proposals.
diligence, audits and accountants reports: and During 2015 the Committee continued its oversight of the internal control reviews.
independent assurance work that is performed on a number Several types of engagements are prohibited, including: of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP metrics bookkeeping or similar services: selected on the basis of their materiality to the USLP.
design and or implementation of systems or processes related In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk to financial information or risk management: management, internal control and the financial statements, the valuation, actuarial and legal services: Committee met regularly with senior members of management internal audit: and is fully satisfied with the key judgements taken.
broker, dealer, investment adviser or investment bank services: transfer pricing advisory services: and INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION staff secondments of any kind.
The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year and All audit related engagements over 250,000 and non-audit agreed its budget and resource requirements.
It reviewed interim and related engagements over 100,000 required specific advance year-end summary reports and managements response.
The approval by the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee Committee carried out an evaluation of the performance of the internal further approved all engagements below these levels which have audit function and was satisfied with the effectiveness of the function.
been authorised by the Group Controller.
These authorities are The Committee met independently with the Chief Auditor during the reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the light of year and discussed the results of the audits performed during the year.
internal developments, external developments and best practice.
AUDIT OF THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS The Committee confirms that the Group is in compliance with The KPMG, Unilevers external auditors and independent registered Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation public accounting firm, reported in depth to the Committee on the Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit scope and outcome of the annual audit, including their audit of Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The last tender for the internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section audit of the annual accounts was performed in 2013.
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Their reports included audit and accounting matters, governance and control, and EVALUATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE accounting developments.
As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2015, the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee held independent meetings with the external The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own auditors during the year and reviewed, agreed, discussed and performance in 2015.
Whilst overall the Committee members challenged their audit plan, including their assessment of the concluded that the Committee is performing effectively, the financial reporting risk profile of the Group.
The Committee Committee agreed that to further enhance its effectiveness they discussed the views and conclusions of KPMG regarding needed to ensure they continued to develop their knowledge of managements treatment of significant transactions and areas of business operations and how they were evolving which would judgement during the year and KPMG confirmed they were satisfied involve further knowledge sessions and site visits.
that these had been treated appropriately in the financial statements.
John Rishton EXTERNAL AUDITORS Chair of the Audit Committee Shareholders approved the appointment of KPMG as the Groups Judith Hartmann external auditors at the 2015 AGMs in April.
On the recommendation Mary Ma of the Committee, the Directors will be proposing the Hixonia Nyasulu re-appointment of KPMG at the AGMs in April 2016.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 61
