01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS 03 Financial statements STRONG RELATIONSHIPS 04 Other information UNDERPIN OUR BUSINESS Here we describe our key resources and relationships which are material to our business model and strategy.
UNIVERSITIES AND STUDENTS SUPPLIERS Key to our success is the relationships that we have developed We work closely with our suppliers to develop relationships that with both University partners and students that choose to spend are mutually beneficial, selecting partners that are more suited their academic lives with us.
We operate in 28 cities and towns to our business needs to provide better value.
We consider the across the UK and in 2015 we let 57% of our beds under needs of both the operations and property development parts nominations agreements with Universities.
of our business to achieve better rates and select partners that are most suited to our long term strategy and company values.
How it supports our business model and strategy This approach helps us deliver the best possible experience How it supports our business model and strategy and value that we can for our students, supporting our aim to By selecting the right suppliers to the business we are able to become the most trusted brand in the sector.
We provide an ensure that products fit the needs of the business and provide environment that is safe, secure and supports personal and value for money through economies of scale.
Ensuring that our academic achievement for over 46,000 students.
values align also supports our most trusted ambitions by helping to minimize negative environmental, social, communal and economic impacts throughout the lifecycle of procured products, contracted services and works.
TECHNOLOGY GREEN PARTNERSHIPS At Unite Students, we strive to build strategic partnerships We have partnered with the National Union of Students to with a small but focused number of leading organisations.
bring the Green Impact scheme to Unite Students.
NUS Green We look for organisations that are able to demonstrate the Impact is an environmental accreditation scheme that drives quality, experience and agility to add value to our fast improvements in sustainability, and we are the first and only moving and dynamic environment.
accommodation provider to run the scheme.
How it supports our business model and strategy The scheme enables us to offer volunteer opportunities For major IT projects and services, we run competitive tender to our students as Green Impact Consultants and Green exercises designed to find the right partner for the long term.
Impact Auditors, helping them to develop their life skills This goes beyond the best commercial fit as it is essential that and career opportunities any supplier reflects the values and behaviours of our company.
How it supports our business model and strategy This includes taking a leading role in industry developments, The actions in our scheme are bespoke to Unite Students acting with integrity at all times, being value rather than sales and are aligned with our key business targets to ensure driven and offering proactive independent advice.
that sustainability is fully embedded throughout our entire Vendor management is a crucial part of this process.
Our partnership with the NUS supports our the appointment of a supplier, we conduct ongoing and regular sustainability strategy by giving us external verification for vendor management activities through collaboration between our localised action and accredited sustainability training Procurement and IT.
This process is designed to not only monitor opportunities for our employees and students.
It also enables performance against agreed levels, but to ensure we remain us to work collaboratively with the Higher Education sector innovative and aware of upcoming trends and advancements.
EMPLOYEES The skills, knowledge and capabilities of our employees are How it supports our business model and strategy central to the success of Unite Students, so we aim to attract We recruit, develop and retain employees in accordance with talented and motivated people and then help them become the following key themes: Resourcing, Reward, Talent and HR outstanding at what they do.
Thats why we believe passionately Policies and Procedures, Diversity and culture.
in the value of high quality training and development, and We want to enhance business performance by harnessing the because our customers are from all walks of life and from all increased potential of a diverse workforce that reflects the local communities, we recognize that to understand and respect communities in which we operate, therefore our People Strategy their individual needs and expectations we must aim to have focuses on supporting the delivery of our business purpose, a workforce that reflects their diversity.
Unite understands the benefit of having a happy and motivated workforce who earn a fair salary for their hard work and commitment, and in 2015 we were proud to receive the Living Wage accreditation, a first for our sector.
In becoming accredited, Unite Students will continue to work with key suppliers to encourage a Living Wage approach and ensure that regular contractors working at our properties move to paying a Living Wage.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
