01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 03 Financial statements 04 Other information As noted in this Corporate Governance Statement, the Board COMMITTEE MEETINGS delegates certain duties, responsibilities and powers to the Audit The Committee meet four times during the year and attendance Committee so that these can receive suitably focused attention.
at those meetings is shown on page 58 of this Corporate However, the Audit Committee acts on behalf of the full Board, Governance Statement.
and the matters reviewed and managed by the Committee remain the responsibility of the Directors as a whole.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THEYEAR ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior The Audit Committee has delegated authority from the Board to a Group Board meeting.
I report to the Board as part of a set out in its written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and the Audit Committee take into account the requirements of the matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of Code and are available for inspection at the registered office their work.
At its four meetings during the year, the Committee and at the Annual General Meeting, and can also be found focused on the activities described below.
on the Group website at www.
co. uk about-unite The Committee reviewed the half year and annual financial corporate-governance.
statements and the significant financial reporting judgements.
The key objectives of the Audit Committee are: As part of this review, the Committee supported the Board by reviewing the financial viability and the basis for preparing To provide effective governance and control over the the accounts on a going concern basis as outlined below.
integrity of the Groups financial reporting and review The Committee also reviewed and challenged the external significant financial reporting judgements auditors report on these financial statements.
To support the Board with its ongoing monitoring of the The external audit contract was tendered during the year effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, leading to the appointment of Deloitte.
As part of this tender including financial controls and risk management systems process, the Committee considered the independence of the To monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit external auditor, the proposed audit approach and the scope function and review its material findings of the audit as well as the proposed fees.
The effectiveness of the new auditor will be considered during 2016.
To oversee the relationship with the external auditor, including making recommendations to the Board in The Committee discussed reports from PwC as the Groups relation to the appointment of the external auditor internal auditor on their audits and assessment of the control and monitoring the external auditors objectivity environment.
The Committee reviewed and proposed areas and independence of focus for the internal audit programme of review.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Committee are set out on page 55 of this Corporate Governance Statement.
The Committee members are all independent Non-Executives and have been selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
The Board considers that as a chartered accountant I have recent and relevant financial experience.
Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
I also invite our external auditor, Deloitte, to each meeting.
The Committee regularly meets separately with Deloitte without others being present.
As appropriate, I also invite our internal auditor, PwC, to attend the meetings.
Deloitte and PwC meet independently of management to ensure alignment, to update on respective findings and consider the impact on the relative approaches of their work.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL REPORTING SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE The primary focus of the Committee, in relation to financial After discussion with both management and the external auditor, reporting in respect of the year ending 31 December 2015, was the Committee determined that the key risk of misstatement of to review with both management and the external auditor the the Groups 2015 financial statements related to: appropriateness of the half year and annual financial statements Property valuations concentrating on: Deferred tax assets The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices Joint venture accounting The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial PROPERTY VALUATIONS reporting standards and relevant financial and governance The Groups principal assets are investment properties and reporting requirements investment properties under development that are either owned on balance sheet or in USAF or LSAV.
The investment properties are Material areas in which significant judgements have been carried at fair value based on an appraisal by the Groups external applied or where there has been discussion with the external valuers who carry out the valuations in accordance with the RICS auditor Red Book valuation guide, taking into account transactional Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, evidence during the year.
The valuation of property assets involves are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the significant judgement and changes in the core assumptions could information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups have a significant impact on the carrying value of these assets.
position and performance, business model and strategy Management discuss the underlying performance of each asset with the external valuers and provide detailed performance data The Committees assessment of the Annual Report to ensure that to them including rents, University lease agreements, occupancy, it is fair, balanced and understandable took into account the property costs and costs to complete for development following considerations: properties.
Management receive detailed reports from the A review of what fair, balanced and understandable means valuers and perform a detailed review of the valuations to ensure for Unite that management consider the valuations to be appropriate.
The valuation report is reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and The high level of input from the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Property prior to sign-off.
Chief Financial Officer with early opportunities for the Board to review and comment on the Annual Report During the year, the Committee and or the Board met with all three of the Groups valuers and challenged them on the basis Ensuring consistency in the reporting of the Groups of their valuations and their core assumptions, including the yield performance and management information as described for each property, rental growth and forecast costs.
on pages 26-27, risk reviews as described on pages 31-34, business model and strategy as described on page 14 The Committee questioned the external valuers on market trends and transactional evidence that supports the valuations.
A cross-check between Board minutes and the Annual Report The Committee was satisfied that the Groups valuers were is undertaken to ensure that reporting is balanced appropriately qualified and provided an independent assessment of the Groups assets.
The Committee was satisfied Whether information is presented in a clear and concise that an appropriate valuation process had taken place, the core manner, illustrated by appropriate KPIs to facilitate assumptions used were reasonable and hence the carrying shareholders access to relevant information value of investment and development properties in the financial To aid our review, the Committee considers reports from the statements was appropriate.
Group Financial Controller and also reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their half year review and annual The auditor explained their audit procedures to test the valuation audit.
As a Committee, we support Deloitte in displaying the of investment and development properties and the Groups necessary professional scepticism their role requires.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditor reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
Further analysis and detail on asset valuations is set out on page 39.
64 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information DEFERRED TAX ASSETS RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has significant tax losses brought forward from prior The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which years.
Recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to these losses significant business risks are managed is a key area of focus is only made when it is probable that these losses will be utilised in for the Committee.
the future and it is therefore dependent on recognised deferred Our work here was driven primarily by performing an assessment tax liabilities and forecast taxable profits.
The latter involves of the approach taken by the Groups Risk Committee, chaired significant judgements and assumptions regarding future by Joe Lister, Chief Financial Officer.
The Risk Committee is performance and the ability to utilise the tax losses.
For entities responsible for the delivery of the Groups risk management subject to Corporation Tax within the Group, all losses have been framework, which the Committee has approved, and the offset as far as possible against the deferred tax liabilities arising Groups assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties, on the revalued properties, therefore the previous judgement as set out on pages 31-34. required regarding forecast taxable profits and the recognition of previously unrecognised losses has been removed.
The Board also formally reviewed the Groups principal risks at two meetings during the year.
Through these reviews, the For the entities subject to non-resident landlord NRL tax the Committee considered the risk management procedures deferred tax assets exceed the deferred tax liabilities, as such within the business and was satisfied that the key Group risks judgement is still required to support the recognition of the were being appropriately managed.
provision in relation to future taxable profits.
This is supported by forecasts of the Group results, prepared by management and The risk assessment flags the importance of the internal control reviewed at Board level.
Due to the proposed conversion to REIT framework to manage risk and this forms a separate area of status in early January 2017, Management consider losses at the review for the Committee.
end of the next financial year unlikely to be used and have not INTERNAL CONTROLS provided for a deferred tax asset in relation to them for the NRL Led by the Groups risk assessment process, we reviewed the entities.
Due to the value of the unrecognised deferred tax asset process by which the Group evaluated its control environment.
in relation to the NRL entities, this represents a significantly lower Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining level of judgement than in prior reporting periods.
Internal controls are designed to During the year, the Committee has regularly discussed the provide reasonable assurance regarding among other things recognition of a deferred tax asset with management and the the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Groups external auditor.
The Committee was satisfied with the financial statements for external reporting purposes.
managements approach and subsequent recognition of a A comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and deferred tax asset within the financial statements in relation to forecasting process is in place.
Monthly financial information the NRL entities.
and performance insight is reported to the Board.
Further analysis and detail on deferred tax is set out on page 42.
The Committees work to review the effectiveness of the internal controls was driven by the Group Finance Directors reports on JOINT VENTURE ACCOUNTING the effectiveness of internal controls, supported by the work of Two of Unites significant assets are its investments in USAF the internal auditor and their reports to the Audit Committee.
and LSAV which the Group has historically accounted for as The feedback from the Groups internal auditor on specific areas joint ventures.
of control are tested on a periodic basis and they request our The Group adopted IFRS 10 12 for the 2014 financial year which external auditor to provide specific feedback and assessment provides guidance on how an investor should account for its of the Groups financial controls and highlight any areas of interests in other entities, including a definition of control and weakness.
No significant weaknesses were identified through guidance on how to classify and account for jointly controlled the course of the Committees reviews.
During the year, management reviewed its assessment for both USAF and LSAV, following the detailed analysis performed during 2014 and considered there had been no material change.
The Committee considered this and agreed there was no material change and accordingly it was appropriate to continue to account for USAF and LSAV as a joint venture under IFRS 11, with Unite recording its 21% share of the results and net assets of USAF as a joint venture using equity accounting and, likewise, 50% for LSAV.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED For the 2015 financial year, the Committee was satisfied that there INTERNAL AUDIT had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas The Group engages  PwC to perform of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be internal audit activity, with this internal audit function reporting good.
We hold private meetings with the external auditor at each directly to the Audit Committee.
Committee meeting to provide additional opportunity for open The Committee considered and approved the scope of the dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor internal audit activity to be undertaken during 2015 and looking without management being present.
Matters typically discussed forward on a rolling three year basis.
The Committee also include: discussed and challenged the output from the internal audit The auditors assessment of business and financial statement reviews undertaken in the prior year and concluded that the risks and management activity thereof reviews provided good support for statements made by management and that the control environment is solid in The transparency and openness of interactions with the areas tested over the last three years.
management, confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management During the year, PwC focused their internal audit work on and the independence of their audit corporate governance, information security, payroll, treasury and our capital operating guidelines.
PwC concluded that How they have exercised professional scepticism management had made good progress on information security since an earlier review in 2013.
The other areas of internal audit I also meet with the external lead audit partner outside the work were reviewed for the first time and overall PwC concluded formal Committee process throughout the year.
that controls were well designed and are operating effectively.
INDEPENDENCE AND EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER Since PwC first reported on internal controls in 2011, it was noted During the year, the Group tendered the Group audit and that in each subsequent reporting period there has been an appointed Deloitte as the external auditor following a robust improvement in the overall control environment.
EXTERNAL AUDIT As part of the tender process discussed earlier, the Committee The effectiveness of the external audit process is facilitated by reviewed Deloittes proposals for the audit and determined that appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
appropriate plans were put in place to carry out an effective We receive from Deloitte a detailed audit plan, identifying their and high quality audit.
Deloitte confirmed to the Committee assessment of the key risks.
that it maintained appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
As part of the Committees For the 2015 financial year, the significant risks identified were in assessment of the ongoing independence of the auditor, the relation to the valuation of properties, deferred tax assets and the Committee receives details of any relationships between the classification of joint ventures due to the inherent management Group and Deloitte that may have a bearing on their judgement required in these areas.
These areas were discussed independence and receives confirmation that they are at the Committee and it was agreed that they should be the independent of the Group.
principal areas of focus as they represent the areas with the greatest level of judgement and materially impact the overall performance of the Group.
These risks are tracked through the year and we challenged the work done by the auditor to test managements assumptions and estimates around these areas.
We assess the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing these matters through the reporting we receive from Deloitte at both the half year and year end and also reports from management on how these risks are being addressed.
66 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information The Committee has been keen for the new auditors to settle quickly into their role and provided a number of opportunities to visit properties and meet key employees on formal and informal occasions prior to the commencement of their work to help them familiarise themselves with the business.
The Committee is pleased with the insights brought by the new audit team and the start they have made.
An assessment of Deloittes effectiveness, its processes, audit quality and performance will be undertaken after completion of this years audit.
During the year, the Company has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES To further safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor from becoming compromised, the Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
No material changes have been made to this policy during the year.
This precludes Deloitte from providing certain services such as valuation work or the provision of accounting services.
For certain specific permitted services such as reporting accountant activities and compliance work, the Committee has pre-approved that Deloitte can be engaged by management, subject to the policies set out above, and subject to specified fee limits for individual engagements and fee limits for each type of specific service.
For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed the specified fee limits, I as Chairman, or in my absence another member, can pre-approve permitted services.
Throughout 2015, no fees have been paid to the Groups auditor Deloitte for non-audit services.
During the year, Deloitte charged the Group 0.3 million for audit services.
The Committee approved the fees for audit services for 2015 after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, including the impact of acquisitions, and after being satisfied by Deloitte that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
These fees are also benchmarked against other listed real estate companies of comparable size and complexity.
COMMITTEE EVALUATION The Committees activities formed part of the evaluation of Board effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this process can be found under Performance evaluation on page 60.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
