CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS THE RIGHT MIX OF SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE PHIL WHITE JOE LISTER MANJIT WOLSTENHOLME Chairman Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Chair of Nomination Committee Chair of Risk Committee Chair of Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Phil was appointed Chairman in May 2009.
He was appointed as Chief Manjit qualified as a chartered accountant with majority of his executive career was spent in the Financial Officer in January 2008 having previously Coopers & Lybrand.
Her background includes roles public transport sector, during a period of held a variety of roles, including Investment Director.
as Director and Co-Head of Investment Banking at deregulation and privatisation.
He was Chief Joe is responsible for the Groups finances and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, and Partner at Executive of National Express Group plc from 1997 investment strategy, the company secretarial Gleacher Shacklock.
She is Chair of Provident to 2006, leading the business through considerable function, and chairs the Groups Major Investment Financial and Senior Independent Director and growth both in the UK and overseas.
Phil is currently Approval meetings and the Group Risk Committee.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Future plc Non-Executive Chairman of Kier Group plc and Prior to joining Unite, Joe qualified as a chartered as well as Chair of Cala Group Holdings and Chair Lookers plc, and Non-Executive Director of accountant with .
of Audit at CMC Markets plc.
Manjit was appointed Stagecoach Group plc and Vp plc.
MARK ALLAN RICHARD SIMPSON ELIZABETH McMEIKAN Chief Executive Officer Managing Director of Property Non-Executive Director Health & Safety Committee Chair of Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Health & Safety Committee Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in Richard is Managing Director of Property for Unite.
Liz was appointed Non-Executive Director in September 2006 following three years as Unite Chief He sets the strategic direction for all aspects of the February 2014.
She has significant experience Financial Officer.
Mark held a variety of other roles property portfolio, oversees the fund management in customer-focused businesses, Tesco and Colgate in the business prior to that, having joined the of Unites co-investment vehicles and leads the Palmolive, where she was successful in driving Group in 1999.
He also serves as a Non-Executive property development activities.
Richard joined growth through an understanding of customer Director of Anchor Trust, Englands largest Unite in 2005 and has held a variety of senior roles needs and an innovative marketing approach.
not-for-profit provider of services to older people.
He is Chair of the British Property Liz is Senior Independent Director at FTSE 250 Mark has overall responsibility for the Groups Federations cross-sector Student Accommodation pub group JD Wetherspoon and Chair of the performance against its business plan targets, Committee, and is a qualified chartered surveyor Remuneration Committee at FlyBe plc.
She is a whilst continuing to develop Unites growth strategy.
and a fellow of the Royal Institute of Chartered Non-Executive Director at import export fruit and Surveyors.
Prior to this, Richard served for six years vegetable company, Fresca Group Ltd, and CH & in the British Army.
Co Ltd, a privately-owned catering company.
In November 2012, Liz was appointed Chair of Moat Homes Ltd, a leading housing association working in the South East.
RICHARD SMITH PROFESSOR SIR TIM WILSON ANDREW JONES Managing Director of Operations Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chair of CR&S Committee Chair of Health & Safety Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee CR&S Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Richard was appointed as Managing Director of Sir Tim was appointed Knight Bachelor for services Andrew Jones is Chief Executive Officer of Operations for Unite in 2011.
His role involves leading to Higher Education and to business in the 2011 New LondonMetric Property, following the 2013 merger the service provided to our 46,000 customers, Years Honours list.
He is a strong advocate of the of London & Stamford and Metric.
Andrew was a and managing the maintenance and facilities role of Universities in economic development and co-founder of Metric and Chief Executive Officer management across the Groups portfolio.
acknowledged as one of the leading thinkers in since its inception in March 2010.
He is the author previous roles include Executive Director and Head Richard joined Unite as Deputy Chief Financial of the government commissioned Wilson Review of Retail at British Land.
He joined British Land in 2005 Officer in 2010.
Prior to this he spent 18 years in of BusinessUniversity Collaboration, published in following the acquisition of Pillar Property where he the transport industry, working in the UK, Europe, March 2012. was on the main Board, with responsibilities for their Australia and North America.
Richard spent 13 years retail portfolio and the Hercules Unit Trust.
at National Express Group where he held a range Formerly Vice-Chancellor of the University of of senior finance, strategy and operations roles, Hertfordshire, Tim served on the Board of the Higher Andrew was appointed to the Board in 2013. including Group Development Director and Education Funding Council for England HEFCE, Chief Financial Officer, North America.
was Deputy Chair of the CBI Innovation, Science and Technology Committee and a trustee of the Council for Industry and Higher Education CIHE.
He has extensive experience in both UK and international Higher Education.
Tim was appointed to the Board in 2010.
52 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information From left to right: Andrew Jones, Richard Smith, Elizabeth McMeikan, Mark Allan, Phil White, Manjit Wolstenholme, Sir Tim Wilson, Richard Simpson, Joe Lister.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53
