CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with SHAREHOLDERS BY GEOGRAPHY % shareholders and with other providers of capital to the business, and welcomes their views on the Groups approach to corporate governance.
In addition to the final and interim presentations, a series of meetings between institutional shareholders other providers of capital and senior management was held throughout 2015.
The Board is made aware of the views of major shareholders concerning the Company through, among other means, regular analyst and broker briefings, and surveys of shareholder opinion.
That process will continue throughout 2016. n United Kingdom 48.1 n Rest of Europe 16.3 During 2015, the Remuneration Committee conducted a n North America & Canada 31.5 n Rest of the World 4.1 consultation with the largest 20 shareholders representing around two-thirds of the issued share capital, as well as key UK institutional investors, regarding the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy see page 72.
The Board, together with its professional advisers, actively analyses the register of the Company with a view to ensuring the long term stability of the register.
The Company maintains a corporate website containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private n BlackRock Inc 7.74 n Principal Financial Group 4.20 investors.
The Company has frequent discussions with shareholders n FMR LLC 6.73 n Franklin Resources Inc 3.92 on a range of issues affecting its performance, both following the n APG Asset Management 5.75 n Royal London Asset 3.18 Companys announcements and in response to specific requests.
NV NL Management The Company regularly seeks feedback on the perception of the Company amongst its shareholders, the investor community more n Old Mutual Plc 5.32 n Wellington Management 3.09 Company broadly and its stakeholders.
n Aberdeen Asset 4.61 n Legal & General Investment 2.96 Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board Management Group Management Ltd UK attend the Companys annual general meetings and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors prior to, and after, the formal proceedings.
At the INVESTOR DAYS meeting, the Chairman reviews the Groups current trading.
We regularly hold investor days to profile the latest developments in the business and showcase our properties and locations which The results of the votes at the annual general meetings, together support our students academic and personal success.
The with details of the level of proxy votes lodged for each resolution events allow us to demonstrate the breadth and depth of our are made available on a regulatory information service and on management team who help ensure that Unite Students the Companys website at www.
As well as tours of our properties and details Notice of the annual general meeting is set out on page 154. of our latest projects, the events provide investors and potential investors with the opportunity to question key decision makers RESULTS OF 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING about the business, its future challenges and opportunities.
These For Against events always generate positive feedback from attendees who have had the opportunity to see and understand our business, % % Votes Votes our strategy, and overall vision at first hand.
Resolution cast cast In April 2015, the day after our successful placing, we invited 1 Receive Annual Reports 99.9 0.1 investors to visit our portfolio in Aberdeen and to view Unites & Accounts ongoing development activity and existing presence in one 2 Approve report on remuneration 99.8 0.2 of the UKs most thriving University cities.
Guests heard from Mark Corver, Head of Analysis and Research at UCAS, and 3 Declare a final dividend 100.0 0.0 Philip Hillman, International Director at Jones Lang LaSalle, 4 12 Appointment of Directors 99.1 99.8 0.1 0.9 who outlined the themes in Higher Education, the outlook for the sector and student number growth.
13 Appoint the auditor 98.9 1.1 In December 2015, we hosted a second capital markets day 14 Auditor's remuneration 98.1 1.9 which included a site visit to Unites development at Wembley, 15 Authority to allot shares 88.7 11.3 Olympic Way.
The visit was followed by a presentation on 16 Pre-emption rights 98.8 1.2 Unites development pipeline and strategy for securing new development opportunities and how we 17 Allow general meetings on 82.1 17.9 manage our University partnerships.
14 days notice 54 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
