CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control systems and monitors these on an ongoing basis.
However, such a system is designed to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement.
Through reports from the Boards Committees, the Groups Risk Committee and the Groups business units Operations and Property, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management for the period covered by the annual report and accounts and has concluded that such systems were effective throughout such period.
Further information on the Companys internal control framework is set out in the Audit Committee report.
The Board delegates certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers to the Audit Committee so that these can receive suitably focused attention.
The Audit Committee acts on behalf of the full Board, and the matters reviewed and managed by the Audit Committee remain MANJIT WOLSTENHOLME, CHAIR AUDIT COMMITTEE the responsibility of the Directors taken as a whole.
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRS OVERVIEW GOING CONCERN During the year, the Audit Committee continued its key oversight After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable role for the Board with its specific duties as set out in its terms of expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate reference, in line with the Code, to reassure shareholders that resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable their interests are properly protected in respect of the Groups future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern financial management and reporting.
basis in preparing the accounts.
The Audit Committee works to a structured programme of RISK MANAGEMENT activities, with agenda items focused to coincide with key events The Board, when setting the strategy, also determines the in the annual financial reporting cycle.
The Committee reports nature and extent of the principal risks and its risk appetite regularly to the Board on its work.
Each year the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and how During 2015, the Committee has continued to monitor the the Board did this during 2015 is set out on pages 26. integrity of the Groups financial statements and conscious of the enhanced requirements under the revised Corporate BUSINESS MODEL Governance Code supported the Board with its ongoing For a description of the Groups Business Model, see page 14 monitoring of the Groups risk management and internal control of the Strategic Report.
The Committee also determined the focus of the Groups internal audit activity and reviewed its findings and verified that recommendations were being appropriately implemented.
In addition, recognising the value of an effective whistleblowing channel, the Committee reviewed arrangements for the Groups employees to raise concerns in confidence.
The Group has tendered the external audit during 2015 and appointed Deloitte as the Groups auditors with effect from May 2015.
We are satisfied with the auditors independence and have recommended to the Board that they be re-appointed in 2016.
MANJIT WOLSTENHOLME Chair Audit Committee 23 February 2016 62 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
