01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT 03 Financial statements 04 Other information Regularly review the structure, size, composition, skills and experience of the Board and to make recommendations with regard to any adjustments considered necessary Lead a selection process that is formal, rigorous and transparent when it is agreed that an appointment to the Board should be made Be responsible for identifying, reviewing and recommending candidates for appointment to the Board ACTIVITIES IN 2015 Succession planning As an integral part of our executive succession planning, we established a comprehensive senior leadership development programme part of a broader skills development programme to grow and nurture our talent and develop our high potential, high performers.
This ensures we have a clear talent pipeline for future Board appointments.
Review of Board composition PHIL WHITE, CHAIR NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee identified it is important to enhance the Board with skills in digital, hospitality and services and this ultimately led to recommending the appointment of Patrick Dempsey as a NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRS OVERVIEW Non-Executive Director.
Reviewing the Boards composition to The Nomination Committee helps ensure that the Board has ensure it has the correct balance of skills, experience, the correct balance of skills, experience, independence and independence and knowledge is an important part of the knowledge.
As well as driving new appointments, it also drives Committees work.
It is critical that the Nomination Committee anticipates the Groups challenges and BOARD DIVERSITY opportunities and the increasingly competitive environment We recognise that diversity, including gender, at Board level and we operate in so we can help future proof the Board with the across the Group is critical to our continued success, particularly appropriate diversity of skills and experience.
in a business that provides homes for over 46,000 students from many diverse backgrounds and countries.
We are proud of the During the year, the Nomination Committees focus has been diversity of the Group as a whole, an organisation made up of on enhancing the skills of the Board to ensure we meet our employees who, like our customers, are from many different strategic objective of becoming the most trusted brand in the backgrounds and countries and have diverse experiences, sector.
Recognising the ever more demanding expectations of perspectives and skills.
During 2015, the Group enhanced its skills our customers and Universities, the Committee felt it important development programme introducing both line management to enhance the Board with skills in digital, hospitality and and leadership development programmes to develop our senior services.
This led to the appointment of Patrick Dempsey leadership succession pipelines.
The programmes are developing and I look forward to him joining us on 1 March 2016. a coaching culture to support growing and empowering our PHIL WHITE employees in delivering Home for Success as well as enabling Chair Nomination Committee our employees voice.
23 February 2016 The Nomination Committee considered during 2015 whether it wanted to set specific targets for female representation on the COMMITTEE OVERVIEW Board, or other diversity targets.
The Committee does not feel the Composition setting of targets is necessarily in the best interests of the Group The Committee is comprised entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
Rather, the Committee will consider gender The members of the Committee are set out on page 55 of the diversity, along with all other aspects of diversity, with its more Corporate Governance Statement.
At the invitation of the general remit to consider the balance of skills, experience, Committee, any other Director or other person may be invited independence and knowledge when reviewing appointments to attend meetings of the Committee if considered desirable to the Board.
in assisting the Committee in fulfilling its role.
Role The role of the Committee is to: Ensure that appropriate procedures are adopted and followed in the nomination, selection, training, evaluation and reelection of Directors and for succession planning, with due regard in all cases to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61
