CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS The internal evaluation in 2015 took the form of a questionnaire INDUCTION which asked searching questions of the Board and Committees.
On appointment, each Director takes part in a comprehensive This was conducted on an anonymous basis to encourage and personalised induction programme covering: frank and direct feedback.
The results were collated by the The business and operations of the Group and the Higher Company Secretary and shared with the Group Board and Education sector: the role of the Board and matters reserved for each Committee.
In addition, the recommended actions its decisions: the terms of reference and membership of Board from the 2014 externally facilitated evaluation were reviewed Committees: and powers delegated to those Committees to determine progress against them.
The Groups corporate governance practices and procedures The key themes arising from the evaluation were: and the latest financial information about the Group Effective team: there is consensus that the Board and its The legal and regulatory responsibilities of a director and, Committees operate as an effective team, with a clear specifically, as a director of a listed company understanding of our strategy and an open, positive and collaborative culture.
Comments across the Executive As part of the induction programme, each Director also visits Directors and Non-Executive Directors were broadly key locations to see our business operations and properties first similar, indicating no real outliers or divergence of views hand and the Higher Education institutions we partner with.
They meet with key senior executives so from the outset they have Strategy: as the business matures further and the sector access to managers throughout the organisation to help them becomes more competitive, the Board is well positioned form their own independent views on the Group, its performance to spend more time on longer term strategic initiatives and and the Higher Education sector we operate in.
In addition, they consider longer term growth prospects.
The Boards agendas are given the opportunity to meet with representatives of the have been restructured to facilitate this Companys key advisors.
Composition of the Board: there is consensus that the balance This induction is supplemented with ongoing training throughout of skills and experience on the Board is appropriate but this the year to ensure the Board is kept up to date with key legal, could be enhanced with sector experience in digital, hospitality regulatory and industry updates.
This ultimately led to the appointment of Patrick Dempsey as a Non-Executive Director, effective 1 March 2016 CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board considers each of its four Non-Executive Directors to be TRAINING independent.
Accordingly, the Company meets the requirement The Board reviewed its training needs and considered it important of the Code in relation to members of the FTSE 350 that at least that the Directors have a broader perspective of the digital and half of the Board excluding the Chairman, is made-up of social media used by our digital native customers.
This led to a independent Non-Executive Directors.
Phil White Chairman digital and social media workshop for the Board.
In addition, of the Board was considered independent on his appointment the Board considered it important that the Committee Chairs to that role.
continue to receive relevant functional training such as on accounting, the UK Corporate Governance Code and executive The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors constructively remuneration reporting developments and, accordingly, the challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring Committee Chairs attend relevant external seminars.
strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to commit approximately 20 days per annum to the business of the Group.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the annual general meeting.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Each year, the Board, its Committees and Directors are evaluated considering among other things the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board, its diversity including gender, how it works as a unit and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
During 2015, an internal evaluation was undertaken.
The Companys policy is to conduct an externally facilitated evaluation every third year.
The previous external evaluation was 2014, therefore the next external one is expected to be 2017.
60 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
