CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE GOOD GOVERNANCE SITS AT THE HEART OF UNITE On behalf of the Board, Im pleased to present our Corporate Governance report.
The Groups continued strong performance in 2015 derives from the businesss continued focus on our three strategic objectives: our governance framework is aligned with these objectives.
During the year, conscious of the changes in the Corporate Governance Code regarding a robust assessment of principal risks and the viability statement, the Board conducted a detailed review of our risks and viability.
The way we did this and the output from that process is set out on pages 28 to 30.
Our governance framework is designed to ensure the Board provides appropriate oversight and challenge.
This is essential to ensure the business can continue its excellent momentum from recent years especially against the backdrop of a sector that has seen unprecedented levels of investor interest during 2015.
Healthy scrutiny and forward thinking vigilance is ever more important.
PHIL WHITE, CHAIRMAN HOW GOVERNANCE HAS SUPPORTED OUR STRATEGY DURING 2015 Strategic objective Boards governance role 2015 Board activity To become the Home for Success Board review of the ongoing implementation of the 40m Home for most trusted Governance of the implementation Success reinvestment programme visiting properties and hearing brand in the of Home for Success our core business directly from Universities as well as overseeing our customer satisfaction sector purpose, ensuring the substantial investment and University trust scores, which are at their highest ever levels see is translating into real and improved customer page 27 showing the investment is translating into tangible results.
experiences and stronger University Strategic review of the next phase of Home for Success to ensure the relationships.
Group can continue to deliver improved customer experience in an increasingly competitive marketplace.
Health & Safety Review of the H&S aspects of our Operations and Property business As we develop a stronger brand, the risk of a units, overseeing the safety of our customers and contractors, at every health & safety H&S miss damaging our Board meeting.
The Boards governance H&S Committee a subcommittee of the Board determines our H&S of the health & safety, wellbeing and security strategic priorities, scrutinizes our H&S performance and benchmarks of the 46,000 students who make Unite and ensures our policies and procedures are appropriately embedded Students their home is critical to the Groups and implemented, see pages 60 to 69. continued success and trusted reputation.
To operate the Board oversight of portfolio activity to enhance Board ensured delivery of the two 2015 developments Orchard Heights, highest quality both the quality and scale of our estate across Bristol and Angel Lane, London on time and to budget.
Board ongoing portfolio the UK in a disciplined way.
review and approval of future pipeline in line with targets for regional development Portsmouth, Aberdeen and Coventry on track for 2016 Development pipeline delivery and oversight of 2017 and 2018 deliveries, see page 40.
Board scrutiny of city and site selection for new developments against the backdrop Board review and approval relating to USAFs acquisition of the AUB of increasing competition for the best sites.
Governance of developments acquisitions Board review of the capital spent during 2015 on refurbishments and to ensure they run to budget and schedule, extensions to our existing properties.
Acquisitions and disposals Board oversight on acquisitions and disposals.
To maintain Group Board focus on a strong and flexible Board review and approval of the 115m before fees raised via the strongest capital structure, which can adapt to market a placing in April 2015 whilst USAF raised 306m.
capital conditions, as well as reducing and diversifying Ongoing Board review of our capital operating guidelines.
Continued structure the cost of funding.
focus on locking in debt at historically low rates for new debt facilities and forward starting interest swaps for future borrowings for secured development pipeline.
At the end of 2015: Loan to value fallen sharply 35% 2014: 43% : Average cost of debt fallen to 4.5% 2014: 4.7% 50 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
