Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 92 Corporate governance and Directors reports Audit Committee report This Audit Committee report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Membership and attendance The Audit Committee comprises the following independent Non-Executive Directors and met on five occasions during the year.
Number of meetings Percentage attended attendance Aman Mehta, Chair 5 5 100% Euan Macdonald 5 5 100% Deepak Parekh 4 5 80% Aman Mehta, Chairman, Audit Committee As shown in his biography on page 76, MrMehta has had extensive executive and non-executive experience with a strong financial background in large listed companies.
The Board is therefore satisfied that MrMehta has recent and relevant financial experience.
MrParekh is a qualified Chartered Accountant and has ongoing executive experience.
All members of the Committee have had extensive prior senior management experience in large international The Audit Committees remit falls organisations and are financially literate.
into four main areas: financial reporting, risk and the internal The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its responsibility for maintaining and monitoring the integrity of the control environment and oversight Groups financial statements, assessing the effectiveness of the of the external and internal audit Groups system of risk management and internal controls and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In order to carry out its duties effectively, the Audit Committee receives high quality and detailed information from management and the internal and external auditor regularly which is reviewed, discussed and challenged by the Audit Committee as required.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
The Audit Committees remit falls into four main areas: financial reporting, risk and the internal control environment and oversight of the external and internal audit processes.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including the Groups annual and half-year results: Where requested by the Board, review the content of the annual report and accounts and advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: Review the Groups internal controls and risk management systems and consider the effectiveness of these systems: Make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of the external auditor: Review the independence of the external auditor: Review the scope of Internal Audit work: Develop the Groups policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and monitoring thereof: Discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of theaudit: Approve the remuneration of the external auditor: Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 93 Consider any matters arising in respect of the Relationship Operation of the Audit Committee Agreement and related party transactions: The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year based on appropriate times in the financial reporting calendar.
The Executive Monitor the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit Directors, Chief Financial Officer, Director of MAS, other members of function and consider its reports: the senior management team and the external auditor regularly Review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise attend meetings at the invitation of the Audit Committee to report concerns through its whistleblowing policy: on issues and facilitate discussions with the external auditor.
The Monitor anti-bribery policies and procedures: and Audit Committee meets with representatives from the external auditor without management being present bi-annually.
The Review reports from the audit committees of the Groups main Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on subsidiary companies confirming that there are no material the Audit Committees activities.
The Committees agenda is based adverse issues that are likely to impact the Group.
on its remit outlined above as appropriate to the stage in the reporting cycle.
The external auditor attends meetings of the Audit The full terms of reference for the Audit Committee can be found on Committee to ensure effective communication of matters relating the Companys website at www.
com and are also to the audit.
available on request from the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee activities during the year The main areas covered by the Audit Committee during the year are summarised below: Area of responsibility Activities Financial reporting Review and approval of preliminary announcement, annual It is one of the Audit Committees key duties to monitor the integrity report and financial statements: of the Companys financial statements.
As part of this process it Review of key significant issues for year-end audit further detail reviews in detail the preliminary results statements, the annual on pages 95 and 96 : report and accounts and half year report.
The appropriateness of Six monthly reviews of significant accounting issues and receipt of accounting polices used is considered, accounting judgements are reports on key accounting issues: reviewed and the external audit findings discussed.
Details of Review and approval of the half year report: financial reporting procedures in place are given on page 89 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Discussions on impairment reviews: Review of pending tax issues: Review of Audit Committee report for the annual report and accounts: Review of legal cases to ensure appropriate provisions are made and disclosed: Review of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements including working capital forecasts, monthly projections and funding requirements.
Internal controls, risk management and governance Internal audit review including reviews of the internal control Details of the Companys internal control and risk management framework, changes to the control gradings within the Group and processes are discussed on pages 89 to 91.
The Audit Committee whistleblowing cases: reviews these processes and output from the regular review of risks Review of the Groups risk management infrastructure, risk profile, carried out during the year by the internal audit function.
significant risks, risk matrix and resulting action plans: Review of reports from subsidiary company audit committees: Review of feedback from the performance evaluation of the AuditCommittee: Review of new regulatory requirements in respect putting the Companys external audit contract out to tender: Reviewing the Groups cyber security controls: Receiving updates on the implementation of the Vedanta Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and UK Bribery Act training across the Group.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 94 Corporate governance and Directors reports Audit Committee report continued Area of responsibility Activities The audit and external auditor Review of the significant audit risks with the external auditors during interim review and year end audit: Consideration of external audit findings and review of significant issues raised: Review of key audit issues and managements report: Review of the materiality figure for the external audit: Review of the independence of the external auditor and the provision for non-audit services: Performance evaluation of the external auditor and recommendation for reappointment of the external auditor: Consideration of the external audit fee: Review of the management representation letter: Review of the audit plan, scope of the 2015 external audit of the financial statements and key risk areas for the 2015 audit.
Internal audit Review of internal audit observations and monitoring of implementation of any corrective actions identified: Review of the performance of the internal audit function: Review of 201415 internal audit plan: Review of the Groups anti-bribery policy and its implementation: Review of whistleblower cases.
Annual report review A meeting of the Audit Committee is held to formally review and At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered sign-off the draft annual report: and whether the 2015 annual report and accounts was fair, balanced A meeting of the Board is held to review and provide final sign-off.
and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders and stakeholders to assess the Whistleblowing procedure Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Such All Vedanta employees, regardless of position, are expected to assessments are provided in the Chairmans and Chief Executive observe high ethical standards.
Each employee is expected to follow Officers statement and the strategic report of this annual report.
the Vedanta Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and employees in The Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that the annual key positions are required to complete the Annual Code of Conduct report and accounts meet this requirement as both positive and Certification form.
The annual certification process reinforces our negative developments in the year were considered at length.
In commitment to ethical practices and Code of Business Conduct and justifying this statement the Audit Committee has considered the Ethics, promoting an ethical culture.
robust process which operates in creating the annual report and accounts, including: The Groups Whistleblower Policy forms part of the Code of Business Evaluation and verification of the inputs from the business Conduct and Ethics and supports the Groups aim of working to the functions, to include the well-established financial reporting highest ethical standards.
The policy allows employees of the system within Vedanta to ensure accuracy and consistency: Company, its subsidiaries and all external stakeholders to raise issues of concern in confidence.
Progress through various levels of review, including review by the Executive Committee and senior management across the Group: As per the Whistleblower Policy adopted by various businesses in Consideration is given to the completeness of the information the Group, all complaints are reported to the Director MAS who is and to ensuring that there are no significant omissions to enable independent of operating management and businesses.
Dedicated shareholders to assess the Companys performance: email addressess and a centralised database have been created to Management Assurance Services conduct internal audit reviews facilitate the receipt of complaints and for ease of reporting.
The with conclusions and recommendations presented to the Audit Company has a 24x7 ethics helpline where employees can place Committee: anonymous complaints against ethics violations as per the policy of the Company.
All employees and stakeholders can register their Revisions to regulatory requirements are considered and integrity related concerns either by calling on a toll free number incorporated to include the UK Corporate Governance Code: or by writing on the web based portal.
The hotline also provides Advice is also received by the Audit Committee from external multiple local language options.
advisers in order to make the recommendation to the Board that the annual report and accounts as a whole is fair, balanced and Following an investigation, established cases are brought to the understandable: Group Ethics Committee for decision making.
This Committee brings Members of the Audit Committee receive an advance draft of the uniformity and consistency in the decision making process following annual report enabling them to assess and challenge whether investigation of the reported incidents.
All cases are taken to their the various reports within the annual report are consistent and logical closure.
A summary of cases along with outcome of the in line with their understanding of the business: investigations and actions taken is presented periodically to the audit committees of respective businesses as well as at Group level.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 95 During the year, the composition of the Group Ethics Committee External auditor which reviews the Groups whistleblower programme was also The Audit Committee is pivotal in monitoring the performance of refreshed to strengthen the Committee to carry out its role in the external auditor and the Groups relationship with the external promoting an uncompromising approach to integrity, ethics, auditor.
Details of how this is achieved are set out below: compliance and good corporate governance.
The Group Ethics The audit process Committee is comprised of MrAkhilesh Joshi, MrDilip Golani, A detailed audit plan the Audit Plan is prepared by the external Mr Rajesh Padmanabhan, MrAbhijit Pati, MrMukesh Bhavnani auditor, Deloitte LLP, Deloitte which is reviewed by the Audit and Ms A Sumathi, Head of Environment.
The Audit Plan sets out the audit scope, key audit risks identified, materiality issues, the client team working on the audit Fraud and UK Bribery Act and the audit timetable.
The audit scope covers the significant The Company is committed to the elimination of fraud, with each components of the audit and audit plans for each component and suspected case thoroughly investigated and concluded.
Each of the key audit risks and the external Committee reviews the actions taken by management in the auditors response on how it will investigate these risks is considered elimination of fraudulent practices and to promote ethical working by the Audit Committee.
Significant issues During the year, the Audit Committee was made aware that the The preparation of financial statements requires management government authorities in India were investigating allegations of tomake judgements, estimates and assumptions, that affect the corporate espionage against an employee of Cairn India and application of accounting policies and the reported amount of employees of some other companies not connected with the Group.
assets, liabilities, income, expenses and disclosures of contingent Cairn India has in place a comprehensive compliance programme liabilities at the date of these financial statements and the reported and controls and follows the highest levels of integrity in the conduct amount of revenues and expenses for the years presented.
Nevertheless, Cairn India is undertaking a further Committee reviews whether the Groups accounting policies are review of its controls in light of the allegations made in the matter.
appropriate, and managements estimate and judgements applied inthe financial statements are reasonable.
The Committee also During the year, the Vedanta Code of Business Conduct and Ethics focused on the disclosures made in the financial statements.
The was also reviewed and updated to promote the zero tolerance viewsof statutory auditors on these significant issues were approach and embed this within the culture of the Group.
The significant issues that were considered by the Audit Committee emerging from the audit process are outlined below: Significant issues How these issues were addressed Impairment assessment of: Impairment assessment of Rajasthan producing assets within the Oil & Gas business was considered as a significant issue Rajasthan producing assets in the Groups Oil & Gasbusiness considering the significant decline in the crude oil prices.
The Copper operations in Zambia Committee has reviewed the significant assumptions including the Alumina refinery assets as Lanjigarh oil price and discount rate.
An impairment charge of US$2,162.1 million has been recognised against these assets.
Iron ore business at Goa and Karnataka Impairment assessment of copper operations in Zambia was More information is provided in Note 2 b and Note 5 to the financial considered as a significant issue considering the decline in copper statements prices and other operational challenges.
The significant assumptions of commodity prices and discount rate were reviewed by the Committee.
An impairment charge of US$52.3 million has been recognised against these assets.
Impairment assessment of alumina refinery assets at Lanjigarh was considered as a significant issue due to the pending environment clearances for the refinery expansion and delays in obtaining bauxite mining approvals.
The significant assumptions of timing of approvals were put through a stress test by the Committee and other assumptions of discount rates and commodity prices were reviewed by the Committee.
The mining operations at Karnataka were resumed towards the end of February 2015.
The State Government of Goa has renewed the mining leases and the business is awaiting other approvals for the commencement of mining operations at Goa.
The Committee reviewed the timing of start-up of operations post regulatory approvals which was the key consideration.
The Committee was also informed that the impairment assessment approach and assumptions were consistent across all business segments.
With the existence of sufficient headroom over carrying value of assets it was concluded that no impairment was required for Lanjigarh assets and Goa and Karnataka iron ore assets.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 96 Corporate governance and Directors reports Audit Committee report continued Significant issues How these issues were addressed Impairment assessment of evaluation and exploration E&E assets Considering the significant downward pressure on oil and other commodity prices, the impairment of E&E assets is considered a More information is provided in Note 2 b and Note 5 to the financial significant issue.
The significant assumptions of oil and iron ore statements prices and the discount rate were reviewed by the Committee.
An impairment charge of US$3,691.9 million has been recognised against oil & gas E&E assets primarily relating to Rajasthan block.
Further an impairment charge of US$788.1 million has been recognised relating to exploratory wells in Sri Lanka.
Considering the excess of recoverable value over carrying value of assets it was concluded that that no impairment was required for the iron ore assets.
Revenue recognition across the business: The Committee reviewed the process and compliance around the Group revenue recognition policy and its consistent application.
The provisional pricing for sale of goods: Committee also sought managements view on revenue recognition oil & gas revenue: principles.
The Committee was satisfied that the cut off procedures, power tariff with GRIDCO.
transfer of risks and process followed for the pricing of goods were consistent and it concluded that these risks have been mitigated.
Further receivables from GRIDCO, which is under appeal following a tariff determination assessment by the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission was assessed by the Committee together with revenue recognition in terms of the requirements of IAS 18.
The tariff determination basis was also supported by an opinion from external legal counsel.
Litigation, environmental and regulatory risks.
Refer to Note 38 to A comprehensive legal paper was reviewed by the Committee and the financial statements.
the mitigating factors were discussed with senior management, including head of legal.
The Committee also reviewed the probable, possible and remote analysis carried out by management and the disclosure of contingent liabilities in the financial statements.
In respect of all significant disputes, managements assessment was supported by legal opinions from external legal counsel.
Additional information on these matters are disclosed in A comprehensive tax paper outlining taxation disputes in respect of Note 38 to the financial statements withholding taxes relating to past acquisitions, eligibility of tax incentives and output taxes and other matters was placed before the Committee for its consideration.
The Committee discussed these tax issues and reviewed the assessment of probable, possible and remote analysis and the process followed by management.
The contingent liability disclosure was also reviewed by the Committee.
In certain cases, views of tax experts supporting the management assessment was also provided to the Committee.
Auditor independence The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the external These policies are based on the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors auditors independence and assessing their continued effectiveness.
and are regularly reviewed to ensure they are in line with best The Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the practice.
These controls provide the Audit Committee with objectivity of the external auditor.
The current external auditor, confidence that the independence of Deloitte in their audit function Deloitte LLP, has been the Companys auditor since its listing in 2003. will be maintained.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the The rotation of the audit partners responsibilities within Deloitte is external audit process and that the independence of the external required by their professions ethical standards and there is also auditors was not compromised.
rotation of key members within the audit team.
Deloitte are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Groups audit every Performance of the external auditor five years and the last audit partner rotation was in 2010.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Accordingly, MrA Kelly will retire as the audit partner for the Deloitte LLP using a survey comprising a range of questions covering Companys audit and will be succeeded by MrChris Thomas.
The objectivity, quality and efficiency.
The Audit Committee concluded audit partner responsible for the audit of the Indian subsidiaries was that the results of the survey were positive and considered that they rotated in 2012, and the next rotation will take place in 2017. continue to provide a high quality audit.
A key part of ensuring the independence of the external auditor is to have in place robust policies concerning matters that may affect their independence.
The Company has in place policies on: The independence and objectivity of the external auditor: Employment of former employees of the external auditor: and Appointment of the external auditor for non-audit services.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 97 Reappointment of the external auditor As Deloitte LLP has served as the Companys external auditor for The Committee has concluded that Deloitte LLP remain objective, over ten years, in accordance with transition provisions of the independent and effective and accordingly recommended to the Competition and Markets Authority order, Deloitte LLP will resign as Board that a resolution to reappoint them be considered at the 2015 the Companys external auditor following the completion of the Annual General Meeting.
Following approval by the Board, a external audit for the year ending 31 March 2016. resolution to reappoint the incumbent auditor, Deloitte LLP, has been proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The The year ahead Audit Committee is also responsible for determining the auditors The Committee will be overseeing the tender process for the remuneration on behalf of the Board, subject to the approval of appointment of the external auditor for the fiscal year commencing shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee is also focused on preparing for the new requirements that the Company will be expected to comply Provision of non-audit services by the external auditor with under the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code including the The Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the requirement for a Viability Statement.
external auditor specifies certain services which the external auditor is prohibited from undertaking in order to safeguard their objectivity In addition, the Audit Committees objectives for the forthcoming and independence.
This includes work relating to the financial year include: statements that will ultimately be subject to audit and the provision implement findings from Board evaluation process: and of internal audit services.
The policy also identifies those services focus on oversight of anti-bribery policies and procedures.
which the external auditor is permitted to deliver to the Group.
These include tax advisory services, and work on mergers, Aman Mehta acquisitions and disposals.
Of the permitted services any Chairman, Audit Committee assignment in excess of US$100,000 may only be awarded to the 13 May 2015 external auditor with the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
All other permitted non-audit services and the fees paid to the external auditor for non-audit work are reported to the Audit Committee on a six monthly basis.
This report includes safeguards put into place to ensure that any threats to the independence of the external auditor are mitigated.
The majority of non-audit services provided by the external auditor are tax advisory services, corporate finance matters or transaction related work.
A separate team within Deloitte LLP is used to carry out non-audit work and overseen by aseparate partner.
An analysis of non-audit fees can be found in Note10 to the financial statements.
External audit tender Vedanta recognises the current requirements of the Code and transitional guidance in relation to audit tendering and rotation under the European Union text on Audit Regulation and Directive and the UK Competition Markets Authority Order.
In order to ensure good corporate governance and that the services of the external auditor remained of the highest quality, the Audit Committee has recommended that the provision of external audit services be put to tender in 2015 in respect of the provision of external audit services for the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
The timing of the tender process has been aligned with the rotation of the external audit contracts of the Groups Indian subsidiaries in order to enhance the effectiveness and reduce any potential disruption of the tender process.
Under the Indian Companies Act 2013, companies are required to rotate their external audit contract on completion of two terms of five years.
