Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 80 Corporate governance and Directors reports Corporate governance report Dear Shareholder, I am delighted to introduce the Companys 2015 Corporate Governance Report.
I strongly believe that good corporate governance is a key driver of performance and is fundamental to the Groups long-term success.
We therefore endeavour to promote good corporate governance which is embedded within the culture of our organisation and underpins everything we do, rather than simply as the adherence to a set of rules.
Vedanta business and brand alignment The Companys key operating subsidiary, Sesa Sterlite Limited was renamed Vedanta Limited to harness the value of the Vedanta brand and strengthen the links between our business, communities and stakeholders.
The rebranding is a significant milestone and helps to promote a united and aligned identity to enable us to Anil Agarwal, Executive Chairman deliver world class excellence with low cost operations and greater value for our shareholders.
Sustainability and safety We have made encouraging progress during the year on improving the Groups safety record and reaching our goal of becoming a zero harm environment.
Whilst there has been a step change in safety We have made encouraging consciousness across the Group, it is disappointing that despite our progress in improving the Groups efforts we had eight tragic fatalities during the year and advancing safety management across the Group remains a key priority of safety record and reaching our management for the year ahead.
goal of becoming a zero harm Board composition environment.
This is a key part As Chairman, I am responsible for leading the Companys Board of of good corporate governance Directors the Board or the Directors and ensuring that it operates effectively to deliver long-term value for shareholders.
During the which is embedded within the year, we undertook a review of the balance of skills, knowledge Vedanta culture.
and experience on the Board.
As Messrs Aman Mehta and Euan Macdonald have both served as Non-Executive Directors on the Companys Board for over nine years, succession planning has been a key priority.
We have been focused on the search for suitable candidates with relevant experience in the natural resources industry to succeed them and successfully appointed Katya Zotova as a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2014.
Ms Zotova has a wealth of experience in the oil & gas industry having previously worked at Royal Dutch Shell and Citigroups oil & gas division.
Her industry knowledge and experience will be highly beneficial to the Board in developing the Groups strategy.
I am pleased that the Company continues to have a strong, well balanced and diverse Board with a wide range of skills and experience including mining, oil & gas, corporate financial, legal and regulatory experience.
In line with our succession planning requirements, we continue to seek an additional candidate to join the Board with the relevant skills and experience to succeed MrMehta as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As the majority of our businesses are based in India, we feel it would be beneficial to the Company to find candidates who have some experience of doing business in India while maintaining diversity of thought on the Board.
We have appointed a Board recruitment consultant to identify suitable candidates with the relevant criteria determined by the Board and we hope to announce further appointments in due course.
However, in order to promote smooth transition and orderly succession, we recommend that Messers Mehta and Macdonald be reappointed as Non-Executive Directors for another year until no later than the conclusion of the Companys 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The Nominations Committee undertook a thorough review of Messrs Mehta and Macdonald and concluded that they remain independent and continue to provide rigorous objective and constructive challenge to Board discussions.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 81 Diversity and inclusion We have previously made a commitment to achieve a minimum 25% female representation on the Board by 2015 as we believe that significant benefit can be achieved from a well-balanced and diverse board.
We have made progress towards that objective with the appointment of Ms Zotova during the year.
We are aware that we can do more in respect of this and it remains a key priority of the Board to make further appointments based on merit taking into account the diversity and other requirements of the Board and candidates skills and experience.
The Board also recognises the importance of encouraging diversity in all forms including gender as well as developing employees across the Group to provide for future succession to management roles.
We continue to address the historical gender imbalance in leadership roles within the natural resources sector and have made a number of senior female appointments during the year including the President Group, Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility and Communications, the Chief Executive Officer of Zinc International and Group Head of Treasury.
Further information on our progress is given in the Nominations Committee report on pages 98 to 100.
Talent development and senior management succession planning Our people are our biggest asset for the delivery of business results and long-term shareholder value.
We have renewed our commitment to nurturing and developing talent within the Group and reviewed career growth opportunities, learning and development and reward and recognition programmes within the Group.
The Leadership Connect programme was started to build the Groups leadership capability and ensure a pipeline of suitably qualified candidates for future succession to senior management positions within the Group.
Another objective of the programme is to create leaders who can drive engagement within their teams to deliver superior performance for the Group.
Board effectiveness and evaluation Following the external facilitation of our Board evaluation last year, we carried out a detailed review of the Boards effectiveness which was managed wholly in-house this year.
This was done through the use of targeted questionnaires and we have produced an action plan to address the issues raised and strengthen our Board processes.
Further information on the process and outcome of the evaluation exercise is provided within this report on pages 88 to 89.
Annual General Meeting The Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting will be held at 3.00pm on 3 August 2015 at Ironmongers Hall and I would encourage you to attend and participate in the meeting.
Yours sincerely, Anil Agarwal Executive Chairman 13 May 2015 http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 82 Corporate governance and Directors reports Corporate governance report continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Code Provision B.
2.1 As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock By virtue of the size of its shareholding in the Company, Volcan Exchange, Vedanta is subject to and seeks to comply with the 2012 Investments Limited Volcan is a controlling shareholder for the edition of the Code which is available on the Financial Reporting purposes of the Listing Rules and was required to enter into an Councils website at https: www.
agreement with the Company to ensure compliance with the The Company is required to report on how it has applied the main independence provisions set out in the Listing Rules Relationship principles of good governance in relation to leadership and Agreement.
Under the Relationship Agreement, Volcan will be effectiveness of the Board, remuneration, accountability and consulted on all appointments to the Board.
The Nominations relations with shareholders as set out in the Code.
This Corporate Committee therefore works collaboratively with Volcan when Governance Report provides details of our approach to governance, making appointments to the Board and, to this extent, differs from our policies, processes and structures and explains how we have the process set out in Code Provision B.
2.1 which stipulates that the complied with the main principles of the Code.
Further details of how Nominations Committee should lead the process for Board the Company has applied the provisions of the Code are also appointments.
contained in the reports of each Board Committee and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Leadership and the role of the Board The Company is headed by a strong and effective Board of Directors Disclosures on share capital and related matters as required by the which is collectively accountable to shareholders for promoting the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the long-term success of the Group through the creation and delivery Directors Report on pages 116 to 119. of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board does this by setting strategic priorities and risk appetite, ensuring that adequate Statement of Compliance with the Code resources are available for the attainment of the objectives and It is the Boards view that the Company has, throughout the reviewing managements performance in delivering the strategy.
financial year ended 31 March 2015, fully complied with all the provisions of the Code, with the exception of the following: As part of its decision making processes the Board considers the long-term consequences of its decisions, the interests of various Code Provision A.
3.1 stakeholders including employees, the impact of the Groups MrAnil Agarwal was appointed as Executive Chairman in 2005. operations on the environment and the need to maintain high MrAgarwal was the founder of the businesses of Vedanta Resources standards of business.
This is achieved through a prudent and robust and steered the growth of the Group since its inception in 1976 risk management framework and internal controls and strong including the flotation of Vedanta Resources plc on the London governance processes.
This meant that MrAgarwal did not meet the independence criteria as defined in the Code on his appointment in Duties of the Board 2005 because he was previously the Chief Executive and, through The duties of the Board are set out in its terms of reference including Volcan Investments Limited Volcan, members of his family have a those matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
The controlling interest in the Company.
MrAgarwal is pivotal in helping Boards terms of reference were reviewed and updated during the to achieve the strategic objectives of Vedanta through his skills in year and in addition to the above include: seeking out value creating acquisitions and projects.
In addition, Approval of the Groups annual and half year reports and financial the fact that he dedicates himself full time to his role of Executive statements: Chairman enables him to balance his executive duties with providing Declaration of the interim dividend and the recommendation of leadership to the Board.
As Executive Chairman MrAgarwal the final dividend: encourages debate and challenge and sets high ethical standards.
Approval of any material restructuring or reorganisation of the For these reasons the Board is unanimously of the opinion that his Group: continued involvement in an executive capacity is important to the success of the Group.
Approval of major capital expenditure projects in excess of defined thresholds: Code Provision B.
1.1 Approval of major acquisitions and disposals of assets in excess Two of the Companys Non-Executive Directors, Messrs Aman Mehta of defined thresholds: and Euan Macdonald have served on the Board for over nine years Approval of a variety of major decisions that are determined by and MrMehta also serves as a non-executive director on the board their nature to have a significant likely impact for the Group: of Cairn India Limited.
As a consequence, the Board was mindful of the risk of their independence becoming compromised and Approval of any appointments to or removals from the Board of undertook a particularly rigorous assessment of their independence Directors.
and potential for conflicts of interest.
MrMehta does not have any business relationship with the Group other than his directorship The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters which at Cairn India and Vedanta Resources plc.
As he absents himself must be reported to the Board such as details of fatalities within from discussions in the event of any conflict of interest and the Group and the adoption or material amendment to the Group continues to actively participate in Board discussions and provide policies relating to business conduct, environment and health and robust challenge to management, the Board concluded that his safety.
independent judgement was not compromised and he remained impartial.
MrMacdonald does not have any business relationship with the Group and is not involved in any transaction or circumstance that would interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement in carrying out the responsibilities of a Director.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the tenure of Messrs Mehta and Macdonald does not affect their ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Group and has determined them to be independent.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 83 Corporate governance framework The relationship between the shareholders, the Board, Board Committees and Management Committees and the reporting structure as shown below forms the backbone of the Groups Corporate Governance framework.
Board of Directors Executive Chief Executive Finance Standing Chairman Officer Committee Board Committees see page 84 see page 85 see page 85 Chairmans Executive Nominations Audit Remuneration Sustainability Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee see page 86 see page 85 see page 98 see page 92 see page 109 see page 102 Advisory Committees see page 85 Sustainable Technology & Procurement Marketing Human Resources Development and Finance Innovation Advisory Advisory Advisory Communications Advisory Advisory Committee Committee Committee Advisory Committee Committee Committee Role of the Board Provide entrepreneurial leadership and set strategic direction for the Group Review the Groups risk environment and set risk appetite Approve the Groups business plans and capital expenditure budgets Assess adequacy of financial and human resources to attain strategic objectives Monitor delivery of strategic objectives by management Support management in their delivery of objectives Provide constructive challenge to management on assumptions Provide oversight of risk management and internal control framework Engage with and report to shareholders on business performance Engage with and report to other stakeholders on their areas of concern Delegation Recommendation http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 84 Corporate governance and Directors reports Corporate governance report continued Board culture Division of responsibilities There is a clear division between the functioning of the Board in Debate providing effective oversight and the executive responsibility for the operation of the Companys business.
The Board has an established Open discussions policy which prescribes how it discharges its mandate.
This policy Consultative processes sets out the roles and responsibilities of the Executive Chairman, Encouragement to question Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors and was updated Constructive challenge in 2014 following a review of all Group policies and procedures.
The Collective decision making respective responsibilities are set out below: High ethical standards The role of the Executive Chairman Supported by sound governance policies such as Code of Business Conduct and Ethics The Executive Chairman is responsible for: Leading the Board and ensuring that it has the resources required Entrepreneurial spirit to function effectively: Seeking out new business opportunities and acquisitions Developing succession plans for Board appointments for Board Underpinned by strong risk management framework and approval: internal control systems Helping to identify strategic priorities to enhance shareholder value: Professional approach Formulating strategic plans for the Boards consideration and Different skill sets of Board members approval: Excellent relationships between Board members Identifying new business opportunities in line with the strategic plans approved by the Board: Board membership Engaging with the Companys shareholders and other At the date of this Report, the Board is comprised of eight members, who will each seek re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming stakeholders such as governments, communities and employees to ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
This includes the Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and five various interests: independent Non-Executive Directors.
There is a variety of skills and Providing leadership to the senior management team: global executive experience represented on the Board including Upholding the highest standards of integrity, probity and mining, oil & gas, strategic, financial, operational and governance as governance at Board level and throughout the Group: can be seen from the biographical details of the Directors which are Facilitating active engagement by all Directors and fostering an set out on pages 76 and 77. environment in which Non-Executive Directors can freely provide Board balance Gender split of Directors constructive challenge: Evaluating the performance of the Board, Board committees and individual Directors and acting on the results of such evaluation: Reviewing the training needs of the Directors for the fulfillment of their duties: and Ensuring that new Directors participate in a full, formal and tailored induction programme.
The role of the Executive Vice Chairman The Executive Vice Chairman supports the Executive Chairman in his leadership of the Board and is responsible for: Supporting the Executive Chairman in ensuring that the Board functions effectively: 3 Executive 7 Male 5 Non-executive 1 Female Supporting the Executive Chairman in identifying new business opportunities: Nationalities of Directors Board experience Supporting the development of the Groups oil & gas strategy: Supporting the development of the Group corporate structure to greater align strategic priorities and enhance shareholder value: Guiding the execution of the Groups manpower strategy: Providing oversight of the development of top talent throughout the Group: and Strengthening the Groups procurement capability and focusing management attention on critical areas.
4 India 3 Mining 1 US 1 Oil & gas 1 Netherlands 3 Finance and banking 2 UK 1 Legal and governance Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 85 The role of the Chief Executive Officer Board Committees The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: The Board delegates certain responsibilities to Board Committees which operate within their defined terms of reference.
The main Ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions: Board Committees are the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration Developing operational business plans for Board approval: and Sustainability Committees together, the Board Committees.
Providing leadership to the senior management team for the delivery of the Groups operational business plans following Board All of the Board Committees are authorised to obtain legal or approval: other professional advice as necessary at the expense of the Company, to secure the attendance of external advisers at their Providing oversight and management of all of the Groups meetings and to seek information from any employee of the operations, business activities and performance including Company in order to perform their duties.
Under the terms of environmental, social, governance, health and safety, reference of each of the Board Committees only the members of sustainability, investor relations and external communications: each committee have the right to attend committee meetings.
Managing the Groups risk profile in line with the risk appetite set However, other Directors, management and advisers may attend by the Board: meetings at the invitation of the Committee chair.
The Group Ensuring that prudent and robust risk management and internal Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Board, Audit, control systems are in place throughout the Group: Nominations and Remuneration Committees while the PresidentGroup Communications, Sustainability and Corporate Social Recommending annual budgets to the Board for approval: Responsibility acts as the secretary to the Sustainability Committee.
Making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee on The terms of reference of each of the Board Committees was remuneration policy and executive remuneration: and reviewed and updated during the year and are available on the Supporting the Executive Chairman in maintaining effective Companys website at www.
com or by request communications with various stakeholders.
The role of the Senior Independent Director Details of the membership, terms of reference and attendance at The Senior Independent Director plays a key role in achieving a the meetings of the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and balance between the Companys Executive and Non-Executive Sustainability Committees are given in their respective reports on Directors.
He is responsible for: pages 92 to 115.
Providing a channel of communication between the Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors: The Executive Committee The Executive Committee acts as a conduit between management Acting as an intermediary for shareholders who wish to raise and the Board and during the year ended 31 March 2015 comprised concerns that they have been unable to resolve through the of the Executive Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and normal channels of communication: members of senior management whose biographies are given on Acting as a sounding board for the Executive Chairman and pages 78 to 79.
The Executive Committee meets monthly and is serving as an intermediary for the Non-Executive Directors where responsible for implementing strategic plans formulated by the necessary: and Board, allocating resources in line with delegated authorities and Meeting with the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year to monitoring the operational and financial performance of the Group.
appraise the Executive Chairmans performance and on such The Executive Committee therefore has a key role in putting the other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
Boards plans and policies into action.
The Chief Executive Officer, MrAlbanese, keeps the Board informed of the Executive The role of the Non-Executive Directors Committees activities through his standing reports to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for helping to develop the Companys strategy and providing rigorous, objective and The Finance Standing Committee constructive challenge to create accountability and drive The Finance Standing Committee is an ad-hoc sub-committee to performance.
The responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors which authority is delegated by the Board for approval of certain include: matters such as routine bank and financing issues.
It comprises five members: Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Helping management to develop the Companys strategic Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Finance.
objectives by drawing on their own business and commercial The Company Secretary provides an update on the Finance Standing experience and challenging assumptions: Committee meetings to the Board at the subsequent Board meeting Scrutinising managements performance in delivering against and the minutes of all Finance Standing Committee meetings are the strategy: reviewed by the Board.
Satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information and ensuring that risk and control systems are robust: and Advisory Committees The Company has established a number of Advisory Committees Determining appropriate levels of remuneration, succession planning and participating in the appointment of Executive which meet monthly to review and make recommendations to the Executive Committee regarding matters which significantly shape Directors.
each business function of the Group at an operational level.
The recommendations from the Advisory Committees define the overall scope and strategy within which each business function develops policies, procedures and guidelines.
The Advisory Committees include Procurement, Marketing, Human Resources, Sustainable Development and Communications, Finance and Technology and Innovation Advisory Committees.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 86 Corporate governance and Directors reports Corporate governance report continued Chairmans Committee Board activities during the year The Chairmans Committee meets monthly and comprises of Messrs Strategy Anil Agarwal, who chairs the Chairmans Committee, Navin Agarwal, Consolidation and simplification of Group structure: Tom Albanese, Tarun Jain and DD Jalan.
The Committee is a Approval of capital expenditure for the Groups Zinc International management committee which was established to support the project at Gamsberg: functioning of the Board and ensure that the business of the Board Review of corporate branding to achieve strategic brand and its Committees is properly planned and aligned with alignment across the Group: management.
The Chairmans Committee provides a forum for the Chief Executive Officer to report to the Executive Chairman on the Consideration of the Groups oil & gas strategy in low oil price Companys operational performance and key issues impacting environments: performance and for the members to deliberate on how best to Review of the Groups aluminium and power strategy: align performance with the strategic objectives set by the Board.
Review of the business turnaround strategy of the Groups African copper business KCM: How the Board operates The Board meets on a regular basis and met formally on six Sustained operational excellence and cost efficiencies: occasions during the year, of which five were scheduled Board Focus on active engagements with governments on mining and meetings and one was called at short notice.
As well as formal regulatory developments: meetings, written resolutions are passed with the approval of the Sustainable development and linkage of initiatives to license to whole Board on routine matters as required in order to facilitate operate philosophy: efficient decision making.
In addition ad-hoc discussions take place between the Directors on a variety of topics throughout the year.
Waste recycling strategy: The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director Coal block auctions by the Government of India: also met during the year without the Executive Directors present to Focus on talent management and senior management appraise the Executive Chairmans performance amongst other succession planning: and matters.
Review of strategy in respect of the hire of contractors across the Group.
Strategy development During the year, a separate meeting was held by the Directors to Performance consider and test the long-term strategy of the Company.
At this strategy meeting, the Board considered its strategic direction in light Reviewing the progress of the Groups restructuring plans: of external factors such as regulatory environments and commodity Reviewing the progress of the Groups major capital projects: market developments and agreed its strategic focus and priorities Reviewing the progress of the operational turnaround of KCM: for the year ahead.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors made site visits to the Groups operations at Cairn India and Hindustan Monitoring the operational performance of the Group against the Zinc to enable them to get a better understanding of the operational business plan for the year through production updates from the and strategic issues facing the businesses.
heads of the operating subsidiaries: Monitoring the financial performance of the Group and the The Executive Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is financing of debt, currency hedging and covenant compliance: responsible for ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely Reviewing and approving the Companys preliminary and clear information on all relevant matters in order to make announcement of its financial results, the annual report and informed decisions and discharge its duties.
Directors are provided accounts and half year report: with regular detailed briefings on the Groups businesses, the Approving the Group business plan for the year ahead: markets within which it operates and the overall economic environment and updates on fiscal policy changes.
Prior to a Board Declaring the interim dividend and recommending the final meeting the Board also routinely receives detailed information on dividend: business and financial performance, ongoing projects, fund raising Monitoring the Groups health and safety record and initiatives to initiatives, activities of the Board Committees and investor relations, promote a zero harm environment: with presentations and verbal updates given by the Executive Reviewing the Groups position following the receipt of a Directors and senior management as appropriate.
withholding tax claim by Cairn India from the Indian tax authorities: At the request of the Directors, the Chief Executive Officer also provides a monthly report to the Board on key operational issues Receiving updates on major litigation and their impact on the and other matters of importance to the Group.
Group: and Receiving a report from the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 87 Governance Board independence In accordance with the Code, it is the Companys policy that at least Review of the Groups key corporate governance processes and half the Board comprises of independent Non-Executive Directors documents: to ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between Review of Directors independence and conflicts of interest: Executive and Non-Executive Directors for effective governance Reviewing the composition of the Board and approving the and no individual or small group of Directors can dominate the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director: decision making process.
The Board undertakes an evaluation of each Directors independence on appointment, annually prior to Reviewing project proposals and approving Group capital recommending their re-election by shareholders as well as when expenditure in excess of applicable thresholds: any Directors circumstances change and warrant a re-evaluation.
Receiving reports from each of the Board Committees: Reviewing the results of the annual performance evaluation of The Board undertook a detailed evaluation of Ms Katya Zotovas the Board and its Committees and developing action plans which independence prior to her appointment in August 2014.
As Ms address the feedback received: Zotova had no prior connections with the Group, the Board was Receiving regular updates on corporate governance and other satisfied of her independence and concluded that she could act as an Independent Non-Executive Director on the Companys Board.
regulatory developments: and Receiving updates from management in respect of investor During the year, the Board also considered the independence of sentiment, share price performance and investor feedback: and MrGeoffrey Green who carries out occasional consultancy work for Receiving updates on the reported allegations of corporate Ashurst LLP, a leading international law firm that is engaged by the espionage against an employee of Cairn India and the Group to provide legal advice on various matters.
As MrGreen had implementation of the anti-bribery and corruption policy across no involvement in advising the Group over the last five years, the the Group.
Board was satisfied that he remains independent of character and judgement.
The Board also considered MrGreens appointment as Board attendance Chair of the Financial Reporting Review Panel and determined that The Company requires its Directors to attend all meetings of the there were no conflicts of interest arising out of the appointment.
Board and any Board Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
The Directors are also Two of the Companys Non-Executive Directors, Messrs Aman Mehta required to disclose their other time commitments and seek the and Euan Macdonald have served on the Board for over nine years agreement of the Executive Chairman prior to accepting any and their independence was therefore subject to a particularly additional appointments in order to ensure that they have sufficient rigorous review.
As MrMehta also serves as Non-Executive Director time to fulfill their role as a Director.
The Companys Non-Executive on the Board of Cairn India Limited, the Board considered the Directors are expected to spend a minimum of 20 days per annum potential conflicts of interest arising from that appointment.
on the Companys business with greater time commitment during As MrMehta absents himself from discussions in the event of any periods of heightened strategic and commercial activity as set out in conflict of interest and continues to actively participate in Board their letters of appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of discussions and provide robust challenge to management, the appointment are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Board concluded that his independent judgement was not compromised and he remains impartial.
MrMacdonald does not The attendance of the Directors at Board meetings held during the have any business relationship with the Group and is not involved year is shown in the following table and the Directors attendance at in any transaction or circumstance that would interfere with Board Committee meetings is provided in the respective Board the exercise of his independent judgement in carrying out the Committee reports.
Accordingly, the Board concluded that the tenure of Messrs Mehta and Macdonald does not materially Attendance affect their ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the at Board Percentage Name Date of appointment meetings attendance best interests of the Group.
Executive Directors Following the review of the Non-Executive Directors independence, 1 Anil Agarwal 16 May 2003 4 6 67% the Board has determined that all of the current Non-Executive Navin Agarwal 24 November 2004 6 6 100% Directors are independent and free from any relationship or Tom Albanese 1 April 2014 6 6 100% circumstance that could affect or appear to affect their independent judgement.
Non-Executive Directors Aman Mehta 24 November 2004 6 6 100% Board succession planning has been at the forefront of Board Euan Macdonald 23 March 2005 6 6 100% considerations during the year and the search for new NonGeoffrey Green 1 August 2012 6 6 100% Executive Directors to succeed Messrs Mehta and Macdonald 3 Deepak Parekh 1 June 2013 5 6 83% is ongoing.
While the Board is committed to refreshing the 2 Katya Zotova 1 August 2014 3 4 75% composition of the Board and the total length of appointments would not normally exceed nine years, in order to ensure a smooth 1 MrAgarwal was unable to attend two meetings of the Board due to prior transition the Board has invited Messrs Mehta and Macdonald to commitments and a meeting being called at short notice.
serve on the Board for up to a further year subject to approval by 2 Since her appointment to the Board, Ms Zotova has attended all meetings of the Board except one which was called at short notice.
shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
It is anticipated 3 MrParekh was unable to attend one meeting of the Board due to a prior that further appointments will be made during the year to allow commitment and the meeting being called at short notice.
Messrs Mehta and Macdonald to retire from the Board following a suitable transition period.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 88 Corporate governance and Directors reports Corporate governance report continued Directors conflicts of interest The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing matters arising The Board has an established procedure for the disclosure of in relation to the Relationship Agreement and related party interests and other related matters in line with published guidance transactions on behalf of the Board.
During the year, there were no and the Companies Act 2006.
Each Director must promptly disclose contracts of significance between the Company, or its subsidiary actual or potential conflicts and any changes to the Board which are undertakings, and the controlling shareholder.
The Company has noted at each Board meeting.
The Board considers and authorises complied with the independence provisions in the Relationship potential or actual conflicts as appropriate.
Directors with a conflict Agreement and so far as the Company is aware, the controlling do not participate in the discussion or vote on the matter in question.
shareholder and any of its associates have complied with the These procedures have proved to be effective during the year under independence provisions and the procurement obligation included review.
Related party transactions, which include those in respect of in the Relationship Agreement.
any Director, are disclosed in Note 39 on pages 196 to197.
Induction, training and development The Board reviewed any potential conflict of interest for MrGeoffrey The Board is committed to the ongoing development of its Green arising from his previous role as a partner of and current employees and Directors.
On appointment to the Board, each consultancy role at Ashurst LLP.
The fees paid to Ashurst LLP during Director undergoes a comprehensive induction programme which the year amounted to US$344,179 2014: US$195,037 and, as the is tailored to their individual needs but is intended to provide an value of the expenditure incurred was determined to be immaterial introduction to the Groups operations and the challenges and risks and MrGreen was not directly involved in advising the Group, the faced.
During the year, Ms Zotova attended the induction and Board authorised the potential conflict of interest in accordance orientation programme consisting of meetings with and with the Companys Articles of Association.
presentations from senior management, meetings with the Non-Executive Directors and a site visit to the operations of Cairn Relationship Agreement India, Hindustan Zinc and some of the Groups corporate social The Relationship Agreement which had originally been entered into responsibility projects.
She also received induction materials at the time of admission of the Companys shares to the premium including the Companys articles of association, Board charter and listing segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority terms of reference, Share Dealing Code, Cairn India Prospectus, and to trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Vedanta Values and an update listed securities Listing in 2003 between the Company and its on the implementation of the anti-bribery policy across the Group.
majority shareholder, Volcan and was subsequently amended in December 2011 was reviewed and updated again in November 2014 The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company in order to ensure compliance with the revised Listing Rules for the Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board protection for minority shareholders which came into force in procedures are followed.
The Company Secretary is also responsible May2014.
for advising the Board through the Chairman on governance matters.
The Directors also have access to the Companys The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure professional advisers whom they can consult where necessary that the Group is able to carry on business independently of Volcan, for the discharge of their duties.
During the year, the Directors the Agarwal family and their associates and that all agreements received legal and regulatory updates on corporate governance and transactions between the Company, on the one hand, and developments and presentations from the senior management of Volcan and or any of its respective group undertakings and or KCM, BALCO, Zinc International, Hindustan Zinc and Cairn India.
persons acting in concert with it or its group undertakings, on the other hand, will be at arms length and on a normal commercial MrAlbaneses structured induction programme has continued basis.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Volcan, the during the year with further site visits to various Group operations Agarwal family and their associates will not take any action that to develop his understanding of the business environment and the would prevent the Company from complying with its obligations markets in which the Group operates, as well as to engage with under the Listing Rules.
Furthermore, the Board and Nominations employees and other stakeholders.
The Board receives information Committee will at all times consist of a majority of Directors who in a timely manner in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it are independent of Volcan and the Agarwal family.
Whilst the to discharge its duties.
Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all times comprise solely of Non-Executive Directors, Volcan is entitled to nominate Following feedback from the Directors, a programme of site visits to for appointment as Director such number of persons as is one less the Groups operations will form part of the Board induction for all than the number of Directors who are independent of Volcan, future Board appointments.
the Agarwal family and their associates.
As the Board is comprised of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors and Board evaluation Vedantas ability to operate independently of Volcan is protected The effectiveness of the Board is of paramount importance to the by the Relationship Agreement, the Board considers that there overall success of the Group and the Company undertakes a formal are adequate safeguards for the protection of minority and rigorous annual evaluation of the Board and its Committees, the shareholder interests.
Directors and the Chairman to assess their performance.
Following the external facilitation of the Board and Board Committee evaluations by Prism in 2014, this year the performance evaluations were led by the Executive Chairman supported by the Company Secretary.
The review consisted of detailed questionnaires tailored to the Board and each Committee.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 89 The findings from the evaluation exercise were discussed with the Accountability Executive Chairman and reviewed by the whole Board before a set Financial and business reporting of actions were agreed.
The feedback from the Directors suggested The Directors present a fair, balanced and understandable that the underlying processes of the Board and its Committees assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
were operating well overall with a collaborative and professional relationship between the Directors.
The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, which is reviewed and modified in line with Accounting Standards to ensure The actions which were agreed following the Board and Committee that all published financial information is accurate.
Vedantas evaluations include: financial reporting procedures are based on five main elements: 1 Financial information supplied by subsidiary companies and Board composition consolidated at central level: The search for new Non-Executive Directors would continue as part Management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis and of Board succession planning process to a encourage more women reviewed by the Executive Committee: on the Board: b increase mining and other extractive industry Management accounts are reviewed by the Board at least experience on the Board: and c refresh the composition of the quarterly: Board Committees.
Performance is monitored against key performance indicators Strategic discussion throughout the financial year and forecasts are updated as The Board will dedicate additional time specifically to consider, appropriate: and develop and test the Groups strategy particularly in light of the Annual operational budgets are prepared by each operating difficult operating environments and volatile markets.
subsidiary and consolidated into a Group Budget which is reviewed and approved by the Board.
Operational 2 External auditor assurance: Management will focus on delivering stability to the Group in a difficult operating environment through capital rephrasing, cost Full year audit and interim review are carried out on the management initiatives, exercising financial and fiscal prudence: published financial statements.
continuing the simplification of the Groups financial structure and 3 Review by the Audit Committee of: focus on deleveraging: focus on safety and linkage of corporate Year-end reporting plans: social responsibility initiatives to the Groups license to operate.
Legal, tax and accounting issues: Board orientation and induction Consideration of the financial statements and disclosures in The induction programme for new Directors will be reviewed and accordance with financial reporting standards: and strengthened to provide the Directors with a better understanding Going concern statements with supporting cash flow, liquidity of their role and responsibilities, the Groups businesses and the and funding forecasts.
4 The Internal Audit function provides an independent assurance in respect of processes, physical verification and management Board administration information system accuracy for operating companies.
The Company will review its arrangements for the administration of Board and Committee meetings including the Board meeting 5 Review by the Audit Committee and the Board of the preliminary materials and minutes.
and half year announcements, the annual report and accounts and any other announcements including financial information.
Directors performance The Executive Chairman reviewed the individual performance of each of the Executive Directors in their capacity as Directors and the Non-Executive Directors and concluded that they each make an active contribution to Board discussions and demonstrate full commitment to their role.
Executive Chairmans performance The Executive Chairmans performance was evaluated by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director and the conclusions of the evaluation were fed back to the Executive Chairman with a number of actions to be completed over the year ahead.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 90 Corporate governance and Directors reports Corporate governance report continued The responsibilities, processes and information flows for ensuring The Groups risk management framework is designed to be a simple, that significant risks are recognised and reported up to the Board consistent and clear mechanism for managing and reporting risks of are shown below: the Groups businesses to the Board.
Risk management is embedded in all critical business activities, functions and processes.
The framework helps the organisation meet its objectives through The Board alignment of operating controls to the mission and vision of Sets risk appetite theGroup.
Reviews significant reported risks Management systems, organisational structures, processes, standards and code of conduct together form the system of internal control that govern how the Group conducts its business The Audit Committee and manages the associated risks.
Reviews the effectiveness of internal control risk systems and The Group has a multi-layered risk management framework aimed reports to the Board at effectively mitigating the various risks which its businesses Reviews the risk matrix, significant risks, status of risks and are exposed to in the course of their operations as well as in their mitigating factors strategic actions.
Risks are identified at the individual business level Considers and approves remedial actions where appropriate for existing operations as well as for ongoing projects through a Reviews action plans put in place to mitigate risks consistently applied methodology, using the Turnbull matrix.
Reviews significant findings reported by the internal audit Risks are continually reviewed with formal discussion on risk function, Management Assurance Services MAS management taking place at business level review meetings Reviews internal audit plans at least once in a quarter.
The respective businesses review the risks, Assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit function change in the nature and extent of the major risks since the last assessment, control measures established to mitigate the risk and Reviews whistleblower reports presented by MAS further action plans.
The control measures stated in the risk matrix are also periodically reviewed by the business management teams to verify their effectiveness.
Management Assurance Services MAS These meetings are chaired by business chief executive officers Plans and carries out internal audits through arrangements and attended by chief risk officers, senior management and with leading international accounting and audit firms functional heads.
Risk officers have been formally nominated at all Recommends improvements to the Groups internal control operating businesses as well as Group level whose role is to create system awareness of risks at senior management level and to develop risk management culture within the businesses.
They play an important Reviews compliance with Group policies and procedures role in ensuring that the organisation sustains its risk management Facilitates the update of the risk matrix initiatives and that the Groups risk management framework Reviews findings in respect of the risk management and matures and grows with the organisation.
Risk mitigation plans form internal control framework with senior management and an integral part of the key performance indicators for process reports to the Audit Committee owners.
Investigates whistleblower cases The Audit Committee aids the Board in this process by reviewing the actions taken by management to identify risks, assess any changes in the Groups risk exposure, reviewing risk control measures and by approving remedial actions, where appropriate.
The head of MAS attends all the Vedanta Executive Committee and Audit Committee meetings.
During the year, the MAS team The Audit Committee is in turn supported by the Risk Management supported the respective business teams at Vedanta Limited and Committee which helps the Audit Committee in evaluating the its subsidiaries towards compliance with the US Sarbanes-Oxley design and operating effectiveness of the risk mitigation Act 2002 requirements the Act, including documenting internal programme and the control systems.
controls as required by section 404 of the Act.
The effectiveness of internal controls is assessed by Vedantas own administration and In addition to the above structure, other key risk governance and certified by independent auditors, as set forth in the Act.
oversight committees include the following: Risk management and internal control Group Treasury Risk Management Committee has an oversight The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and on the treasury related risks.
This committee comprises of Group determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take Chief Financial Officer, business CFOs and Treasury Heads at to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Directors also have ultimate respective businesses.
responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a robust system Group Capex Sub-Committee which evaluates the risks while of internal control to provide them with reasonable assurance that reviewing any capital investment decisions as well as institutes all information within the business and for external publication is a risk management framework in expansion projects.
Authority for detailed monitoring of the internal control Sustainability Committee which reviews sustainability related and risk management framework is delegated to the Audit risks.
This Committee is chaired by a Non-Executive Director Committee which reports to the Board regularly within the remit and attended by the Chief Executive Officer, and other business of its role.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 91 As stated above, every business division in the Group has developed Communications with shareholders its own risk matrix of Top 20 risks which is reviewed at business The Company values communication with its shareholders and management committee level.
In addition, business divisions actively engages with them on a wide range of issues to ascertain have also developed their own risk registers depending on size their views.
The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue and of operations and number of subsidiary business units locations.
schedule of meetings with institutional investors, analysts, brokers Full details of principal risks and uncertainties are contained in the and fund managers which is attended by the Chief Executive Officer strategic report on pages 28 to 35. and managed by the Investor Relations team.
During the year, in order to further promote engagement with the Companys investor A consistently applied methodology is used to identify risks to community, a Capital Markets Day was held in London and attended operations and projects at the operating subsidiary level.
MAS have by several members of the Executive Committee and senior arrangements with leading international accounting and audit firms management to provide a corporate and financial overview of the excluding the Groups external auditor for carrying out internal audits Group and updates on the key businesses by the respective business within the Group.
This was followed by a site visit to the Groups operations at Hindustan Zinc, Cairn India and Jharsuguda.
This element has been an important component of the overall internal control process by which the Board obtains assurance.
A Sustainable Development Investor Day has been planned for The scope of work, authority and resources of MAS are regularly mid-2015 to enhance engagement with the Companys stakeholders reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The responsibilities of MAS include on sustainability and corporate social responsibility matters.
recommending improvements in the control environment and reviewing compliance with the Groups philosophy, policies The main channels of communication with the investment and procedures.
The planning of internal audit is approached from community are through the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive a risk perspective.
In preparing the internal audit plan, reference Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Director, Investor Relations.
Upon is made to the Groups risk matrix, inputs are sought from senior request the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive management, project managers and Audit Committee members and Directors are available to meet with major investors to discuss any reference is made to past audit experience, financial analysis and the specific issues.
The Board is also kept abreast of shareholder current economic and business environment.
sentiment and views on various issues through periodic detailed investor relations reports to the Board.
Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place procedures to ensure that sufficient internal controls are maintained.
These Routine engagement activities include: procedures include a monthly meeting of the relevant management Press releases to the market and media on key developments committee and quarterly meeting of the Audit Committee of throughout the year: that subsidiary.
Any adverse findings are reported to the Audit Regular meetings between the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may request MAS Financial Officer and institutional investors, analysts and brokers: and or the external auditor to focus their audit work and report to Site visits by institutional investor representatives, analysts and him on specific areas of risk identified by the risk management and brokers to the Groups major operations: internal control framework.
At a Group level, the findings by MAS are presented monthly to the Executive Committee and to the Audit Ongoing dialogue with shareholders and other interested parties Committee periodically.
by email, letters and meetings arranged through the Investor Relations and Group Communications teams: The Executive Committee and Audit Committee regularly review A wide range of information on the Company and its operations reports related to the Groups internal control framework in order which is made available on the Companys website including the to satisfy the internal control requirements of the Code Internal annual report and accounts, half yearly results, sustainability Control: Revised Guidance for Directors and section 404 of the report, market announcements, press releases, share price and Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Due to the limitations inherent in any links to subsidiary company websites: and system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed rather The Board also welcomes the opportunity to communicate with than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, leading reasonable and not absolute assurance against material to full and frank discussions on a variety of topics of interest to misstatement or loss.
All of the Directors, including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Sustainability Committees attend In line with best practice, the Board has reviewed the internal control the AGM in order to answer questions from shareholders.
The 2015 system in place during the year and up to the date of the approval of AGM will be held on at 3.00pm on 3 August 2015 at The Ironmongers this report.
The Boards review includes the Audit Committees report Hall, Shaftesbury Place, London EC2Y 8AA.
Further details are given on the risk matrix, significant risks and actions put in place to mitigate in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this annual report including these risks.
This review ensures that the internal control system the business to be considered at the meeting.
The notice is sent out remains effective.
Where weaknesses are identified as a result of the at least 20 business days before the AGM.
Voting at the AGM on all review, new procedures are put in place to strengthen controls and resolutions is by poll on a one share, one vote basis and the results these are in turn reviewed at regular intervals.
Every risk has an owner of votes cast for, against and abstentions are available on the who is responsible for ensuring that controls are put in place to Groups website following the meeting.
The Board believes that mitigate the risk.
voting by poll allows the views of all shareholders to be taken into account regardless of whether or not they can attend the meeting and shareholders are actively encouraged to register their votes electronically in advance of the meeting.
