Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 22 Strategic report We are Vedanta Strategic capabilities and relationships Strategic capabilities Relationships Diversied mix of business share of EBITDA FY2015 World class assets Governments We have a diverse portfolio of high-quality assets India that we invest in to secure long-term value delivery The Indian Government is focused on easing the throughout the commodity cycle.
Our long-life, bureaucracy in doing business to attract new low-cost assets have benefited from a significant investments in infrastructure and to accelerate investment programme over the last few years, growth.
with capital expenditure this year reduced to US$1 billion in line with subdued market conditions.
Vedanta is working to get easier access to raw This will maintain our competitive position in Tier materials e. g. coal and bauxite where the new one of the global cost curve for Zinc, Iron Ore and Mining and Mineral Regulation will provide for Oil & Gas and help move Aluminium and Copper auctions of natural resources.
Coal block auctions into lower quartiles in the near term.
already conducted during the year were a step towards addressing the country wide coal issue.
39% Oil & Gas A skilled workforce 37% Zinc Key to our operational excellence is our 82,000 The Government is prioritising energy security and 11% Aluminium strong workforce, which includes over 11,000 is taking steps in that direction including evaluation 5% Power 7% Copper skilled professionals such as geologists, mining of revenue sharing models and uniform licensing 1% Iron Ore engineers, technicians and commercial managers.
Cairn India is We provided 756,643 hours in health & safety currently working with the Government on the training, to ensure we develop and protect our extension of the Profit Sharing Contract PSC Diversied mix of business people.
We attract and retain the talent we need in Rajasthan.
share of EBITDA FY2014 through high quality programmes such as the STAR programme that aims to develop 800 high Relationships with State Governments are equally potential employees: the Mining Academy set up important and we continue to work with the at Rajasthan to develop an employee pool with Governments of the states where we operate.
enhanced underground mining skills and Technical Act Up, a structured programme to develop Africa technically proficient employees.
As a major employer in Zambia and Southern Africa, with nearly 16,000 employees and Technology and innovation contractors, Vedanta is committed to working We encourage a culture of innovation both with the local Governments.
internally and through collaboration with external networks to drive productivity and maintain Employees our competitive position.
We test out new ideas In addition to investing in training and 52% Oil & Gas in our R&D laboratory and invest in pilot scale development for its 82,000 employees, 30% Zinc studies, followed by feasibility studies for opportunities for employee engagement exist 6% Aluminium commercial viability.
at every level within the Company.
Over 2,000 4% Power employees have attended the Chairmans 8% Copper -1% Iron Ore Financial strength workshop in the last five years, the CEO visits sites We have a strong financial profile with cash around the Company on a regular basis and there and liquid investments of US$8.2 billion and a are forums to cover local issues including welfare, Margins FY2015 diversified, balanced debt portfolio with a net gender diversity, sustainability and safety.
We are delivering positive Oil & Gas 62% free cash flow and continue to deleverage our Customers and suppliers Zinc India 51% balance sheet.
Vedanta has strong relationships with its customers Zinc International 31% and suppliers and also contributes to the industry by Aluminium 20% Licence to operate participating in industry bodies.
Vedanta aims to set Power 23% Our investment in sustainability is key to our high standards for contractual integrity and quality Copper Zambia 0.4 % protecting and preserving our licence to operate.
Supply chain management is treated as Iron Ore Pig Iron 10% Wepromote a culture of transparency and integrity, a critical skill, underpinned by investment in IT and 1 focusing on protecting the health and safety of integrated systems.
Group adjusted 38% our employees, minimising our impact on the environment and investing in our local communities.
1 Excludes custom smelting at Copper and Zinc India Operation.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 23 Competitive position on global cost curve Vedantas economic contribution I II III IV US$m Size of circle denotes EBITDA contribution and % denotes EBITDA margin in FY2015.
Zinc India 51% Operating costs Employee wages and benets Oil & Gas Payment to providers of capital Zinc Net Finance costs including 62% Intl.
other gains losses 31% Dividend paid Payment to Governments Copper Income Tax Zambia 0.4 % Community investment including donations Economic value retained Aluminium 20% m US$12,878.7 Revenue Communities Dividends have been paid out every year, across Key to our license to operate is our relationship the commodity cycle, increasing progressively with the communities where we operate.
We work from 17.0 US cents per share 11 years ago to with local community groups and village councils 63.0 US cents per share this year.
to discuss any grievances, for example in relation to land and resettlement issues.
Our community Lenders programmes benefit over 4.1 million people in Vedanta has a balanced debt portfolio, with India and Africa and we invested US$43.0 million a diversified range of funding sources and a this year on these community initiatives including balanced maturity profile.
It maintains close building and supporting schools, hospitals and on communications with its lenders, through environmental projects to improve bio-diversity meetings, presentations and ongoing around our assets.
Shareholders The Company actively engages with shareholders to listen to their views with the Executive members of the Board undertaking an ongoing schedule of meetings with institutional investors, analysts and brokers.
Over the last 11 years, Vedanta has returned US$1.6 billion to shareholders, an average return of 8% per annum.
