Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 98 Corporate governance and Directors reports Nominations Committee report This Nominations Committee report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Membership and Attendance The Nominations Committee comprises the following Directors and met on three occasions during the year.
Number of meetings Percentage attended attendance Anil Agarwal, Chairman 3 3 100% Euan Macdonald 3 3 100% Aman Mehta 3 3 100% Anil Agarwal, Chairman, Nominations Committee Deepak Parekh 3 3 100% 1 Katya Zotova 1 1 100% 1 This refers to the number of meetings of the Nominations Committee attended during the year which the Director was entitled to attend following her appointment to the Committee.
The Board considers that the composition and effective operation ofthe Board is a critical component for the delivery of long-term The Nominations Committee is shareholder value.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for responsible for reviewing the reviewing the composition of the Board to ensure the right mix composition of the Board to ensure ofskills, experience, diversity and independence is present.
It also plays a key role in ensuring the development of talent within the right mix of skills, experience, theGroup.
diversity and independence Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee ispresent.
The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are set out in its terms of reference which can be found on the Companys website at www.
com and are also available on request from the Company Secretary.
The main responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are to: Review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the skills, experience and diversity of its members and recommend changes to the composition that are deemed necessary: Review the policy in respect of diversity on the Board and consider Board composition in light of the benefits of diversity, including gender: Consider candidates for appointment as either Executive or Non-Executive Directors and plan for succession in particular to the positions of the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for appointments to the Board: Identify suitable candidates for appointments to the Board and its Committees and consider the use of external advisers to facilitate the search for candidates from a wide range of backgrounds: and Recommend to the Board whether to reappoint a Non-Executive Director either at the end of their term of office or when put forward for re-election, having regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board.
The Nominations Committee will confer with Volcan in this respect under the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 99 Operation of the Nominations Committee Committees awareness of the tenure of its Non-Executive Directors.
Other Executive Directors and members of the senior management Both the Nominations Committee and Board have discussed at team may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee as length the need for refreshing of the Board and at the appropriate.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee provides recommendation of the Nominations Committee, one new Nonan update to the Board in respect of the Committees activities.
Executive Director was appointed to the Board in 2014.
Nominations Committee activities during the year The main areas of activity of the Nominations Committee during the The focus this year has continued to be on issues of diversity, year are summarised below: succession planning and Board composition due to the Nominations Area of responsibility Item Board composition and succession planning Review of skills, experience and diversity and approving key search criteria for recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors: Continued engagement of search consultancy to aid in recruitment process: Review of candidates and recommendation of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director: Keeping under review potential candidates to address gender balance on the Board: Review of succession planning for executive management.
Governance Considering the results of the Nominations Committees annual evaluation: Approval of disclosures in the Nominations Committee report in the Companys annual report.
Non-Executive Director independence Review of the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors prior to recommending their reappointment by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Recruitment process Succession planning When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nominations As part of the Boards succession planning arrangements, the Committee reviews the balance of skills, experience and diversity on Nominations Committee has initiated a review of the composition of the Board to identify those criteria which are determined to be key the Board Committees and details will be announced in due course.
to strengthening the effectiveness of the Board.
These criteria form In addition to ongoing Board succession planning, during the year the basis of the search for new appointments to the Board.
During there was also significant focus on succession planning for senior the year, the Nominations Committee continued its work with management roles across the Group.
Tom Albanese, Chief Executive independent Board recruitment agency, Spencer Stuart to conduct Officer has continued the leadership review to assess the current a global search for new Non-Executive Directors to succeed Messrs leadership of the businesses and identify potential successors as Mehta and Macdonald who have served on the Board for over part of a drive to have the right leadership in place for the delivery nine years.
Spencer Stuart was provided with a brief to identify of the Groups strategic objectives.
As MrSK Roongta is expected to candidates that had relevant experience of the extractive industries.
retire from the Group later in the year, MrAbhijit Pati was appointed The brief also requested the inclusion of more female candidates on as CEO Aluminium in March 2015.
In May 2015, MrAjay Dixit was candidate shortlists to address the lack of gender diversity on the appointed as Chief Executive Officer, Power and will lead the Board and meet the aspirational target of achieving 25% of women consolidation of the Groups entire Power operations and develop on the Board by 2015.
While the Nominations Committee is the Power vertical.
Following the review, a number of changes were committed to addressing the gender imbalance, the Board is of the made to the senior management structure to help provide the view that any appointments to the Board should be based on merit necessary focus to grow our businesses and deliver superior value to rather than to fulfil targets.
Following the recruitment drive, Ms all stakeholders.
MrKishore Kumar was appointed as CEO-Iron Ore Katya Zotova was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
Ms Zotova Business to lead the revival of the Groups profitable low cost mining has a wealth of knowledge and experience in the oil & gas industry operations in Karnataka and Goa and to develop the Groups having previously spent over a decade at Royal Dutch Shell, working Liberian Iron Ore project.
In 2015, Ms Deshnee Naidoo was on a number of commercial upstream roles and as Head of appointed as CEO, Zinc International.
International Acquisitions and Divestments for Citigroups oil & gas division.
Ms Zotovas experience is of significant benefit to the Group in developing its oil & gas strategy.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Group other than to provide recruitment consultancy services to the Nominations Committee.
The search of additional Board candidates is ongoing and it is expected that further appointments will be made in due course.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 100 Corporate governance and Directors reports Nominations Committee report continued Talent development and senior management succession planning The year ahead Our people are our biggest asset for the delivery of business The Nominations Committee objectives for the coming year are: results and long-term shareholder value.
We have renewed Review progress made on nurturing talent and improving the our commitment to nurturing and developing talent within the gender balance within the Group: Group and reviewed career growth opportunities, learning and Continued focus on succession planning for the Board in order to development and reward and recognition programmes within the ensure a balance of skills, experience and diversity: Group.
The Leadership Connect programme was started to build A commitment to increasing the participation of women across leadership capability and ensure a pipeline of suitably qualified all levels of the business, not least the Board of Directors: and candidates for future succession to senior management positions within the Group.
Another objective of the programme is to create Appointment of additional Non-Executive Directors to succeed leaders who can drive engagement within their teams to deliver Messers Mehta and Macdonald.
superior performance for the Group.
Anil Agarwal Diversity Chairman, Nominations Committee The Board supports the importance of having diversity of thought 13 May 2015 and representation on its Board and it is one of the Nominations Committees tasks to ensure that this is achieved.
Board diversity has been considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to age, gender, race and ethnic origin, cultural and educational background.
The Board has a wide range of knowledge and expertise including mining, oil & gas, corporate finance, banking, diplomacy and governance and the law.
In terms of gender, the Companys diversity policy has an aspirational target of achieving a minimum of 25% women on the Board by 2015.
While we have made some progress towards this target following MsZotovas appointment, we acknowledge that more needs to be done and this remains a top priority for the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee is also addressing the lack of gender diversity across its employee population and feel that it is essential to overcome the reasons for lack of female representation to date.
These have included the fact that Vedanta operates within a traditionally male dominated industry.
Furthermore, due to cultural constraints and the remote geographical location of some of our operations, we face a number of challenges in addressing the gender balance within the Group.
Women currently comprise 8.64% of the overall employee population within the Group whereas the percentage of female representation across the Groups professional population is 11.24%.
In order to achieve our target for women on the Board, we ensure that female candidates are considered routinely as part of the recruitment process.
We also actively encourage and monitor the progress of women in senior positions throughout the Group.
Initiatives this year included reviewing the barriers to women with children in returning to work.
By supporting equal opportunities we will ensure that the pool of women from which management can be drawn will increase.
Ms Roma Balwani joined the Group as President Group Communications, Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibilty and Ms Deshnee Naidoo was appointed as the CEO of Zinc International.
