70 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance Report continued Appointments to the Board Board Effectiveness Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by Board Composition the Nomination Committee.
Further information is set out in the The Board comprises eight Directors: the Non-executive Chairman, Nomination Committee report on pages 80 and 81, including more John McDonough CBE: the Chief Executive, Franois Wanecq: the details about the three appointments made to the Board in 2015.
Chief Financial Officer, Guy Young: and five Non-executive Directors.
Time Commitment of the Chairman and the Douglas Hurt is the Senior Independent Director.
Henry Knowles is Nonexecutive Directors the Company Secretary.
During the year, Hock Goh and Douglas Hurt joined the Board as Independent Non-executive Directors of Vesuvius The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have a letter plc with effect from 2 April 2015.
Douglas Hurt assumed the roles of appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of their of Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent directorship.
An indication of the anticipated time commitment is Director previously held by Jeff Hewitt who retired immediately provided in any recruitment role specification, and each Directors following the 2015 AGM held on 14 May 2015.
Guy Young was letter of appointment provides details of the meetings that they are appointed as Chief Financial Officer and joined the Board of Vesuvius expected to attend, along with the need to accommodate travelling plc as an Executive Director on 1 November 2015, replacing Chris time.
Non-executive Directors are required to set aside sufficient OShea, who resigned from the Board on 17 September 2015. time to prepare for meetings, and regularly to refresh and update The Board focuses on ensuring that both it, and its Committees, their skills and knowledge.
All Non-executive Directors have agreed have the appropriate range of diversity, skills, experience, to commit sufficient time for the proper performance of their independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them responsibilities, acknowledging that this will vary from year to year to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board depending on the Groups activities.
Directors are expected to attend continues to look at diversity in its broadest sense: reflected in the all scheduled Board and Committee meetings and any additional range of backgrounds and experience of our Board members who meetings as required.
Each Directors other significant commitments are drawn from different nationalities and have significant experience are disclosed to the Board during the process for their appointment of managing a variety of complex global businesses.
We believe that and they are required to notify the Board of any subsequent changes.
it is important to get the right balance of independence, skills and The Company has reviewed the availability of the Non-executive knowledge, both on the Board and across our businesses.
Directors and considers that each of them is able to, and in practice does, devote the necessary amount of time to the Companys The Boards overall skills and experience, as well as Non-executive business.
The Board notes that the Chairman dedicates a significant Director independence, were reviewed during the year as part of amount of time to Vesuvius in discharging his duties.
In assessing the annual corporate governance review.
The Boards composition any changes in his directorships, the Chairman checks with the Board also formed part of the Board evaluation process.
The Board to ensure that, should he take further outside responsibilities, these considers its diversity, size and composition to be appropriate for the outside interests are appropriately balanced with those of Vesuvius.
Two of the eight Directors 25% are During the year, having confirmed that his time commitment to women and four 50% are non-UK citizens.
The Board will continue Vesuvius would remain unaffected, the Chairman was appointed to review its structure regularly to ensure that it continues to benefit as a Trustee of Team Rubicon UK, a registered charity which from the appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity.
mobilises retired military veterans to disaster zones to provide aid.
Committee composition is set out in the relevant Committee reports.
Information and Support No-one, other than the Committee Chairman and members of the Committees, is entitled to participate in meetings of the Audit, The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely manner, information Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
However, as detailed of an appropriate quality to enable it adequately to discharge its in the Committee reports, each of the Committees operates in responsibilities.
Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of an open and consensual manner, and therefore where the agenda the relevant Board or Committee meeting to enable them to make permits, other Directors and senior management attend by invitation.
further enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should they so wish.
This also allows Directors who are unable to attend The Board considers that, for the purposes of the UK Corporate to submit views in advance of the meeting.
Governance Code, half the Board, excluding the Non-executive Chairman namely Nelda Connors, Hock Goh, Jane Hinkley and In addition to the formal processes, the Chief Executive provides Douglas Hurt are independent of management and free from any written updates on important Company business issues and business or other relationship which could affect the exercise of the Board is provided with a monthly report of key financial and their independent judgement.
Christer Gardell is Managing Partner management information.
Regular updates on shareholder of Cevian Capital which holds 21.11% of Vesuvius issued ordinary issues are provided to the Directors, who also receive copies of share capital and is not considered to be independent.
He brings analysts notes issued on the Company.
For the distribution of a wealth of commercial acumen to the Board.
The Chairman all information, Directors have access to a secure online portal, satisfied the independence criteria on his appointment to the Board.
which contains a reference section containing background Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 68. information on the Company.
Governance 71 All Directors have access to the advice and services of the The October evaluation also addressed the Boards overall Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place performance, the performance of the Boards Committees and for Non-executive Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, an individual review of each Board member.
In addition, the Senior to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
Independent Director led an evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
Lintstock Ltd, an independent governance advisory firm, Induction and Training which also provides limited governance software services to the Company, facilitated each of the reviews.
The reviews examined A comprehensive induction programme is available to new Directors the individual skills, experience, and knowledge of the Company and was provided to Douglas Hurt, Hock Goh and Guy Young amongst the Directors, together with Board interaction and during 2015.
The core of the induction programme is designed effectiveness.
The 2015 evaluation also built on the themes in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, and is identified from the 2014 review.
tailored to meet the requirements of the individual appointee.
Governance in Action Director Inductions Governance in Action 2015 Board Evaluation 1.
In each case, the induction programme addressed training requirements 1.
Lintstock consulted with the Chairman, Company Secretary and the appropriate to the Directors specific role.
Reference materials were Chairmen of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in the provided, including information about the Board, its Committees, formulation of the content and focus for the 2015 evaluation.
procedures for dealing in the Companys shares and other regulatory 2.
L intstock designed and circulated detailed questionnaires and collated and governance matters.
All aspects of risk and its management through responses from participants containing both scored responses and insurance, compliance and relevant corporate policies and procedures soliciting free text comment.
The results were presented to and were covered.
Directors were advised of their legal and other duties discussed with the Chairman and Company Secretary.
and obligations as Directors of a listed company.
Lintstock subsequently presented the results to the Board, using this 2.
For Douglas Hurt and Hock Goh the induction also cover ed one-to-one to give valuable context to the output of the evaluation gained from meetings with other Board members, meetings with key Group their broader experience in this area.
executives and visits to Vesuvius R&D and manufacturing facilities.
The output formed the basis of one-on-one discussions conducted 3.
Guy Youngs induction also included introductions to principal advisers, by the Chairman with each member of the Board and the Company the Companys brokers and investor community, and scheduled visits Secretary, also covering the results of the individual Director reviews.
The Senior Independent Director met with the Chairman to discuss 4.
The Company Secretary monitored the induction processes to ensure the results of his review by the other Non-executive Directors.
that if, after a certain period of appointment, the new Directors felt there 6.
The specific action points generated from the prior years Board was an area in which they required further clarity, then support for this evaluation were reviewed at the December Board meeting and action and any subsequent requirements was supplied.
points from the 2015 review were set for 2016.
The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, continues to ensure It was reported that all matters raised during the 2014 evaluation that there is an ongoing process to review training and development had been addressed during the year or, where they represented needs.
Directors are provided with details of seminars and training longer-term goals, considerable progress had been made.
The only courses relevant to their role, and are encouraged and supported exception was the invitation of staff members considered to be of by the Company in attending them.
In 2015, in-house training was High Potential to attend Board meetings which was fulfilled with provided to the Board on the share dealing code, and regulatory a more flexible approach with a number of High Potentials updates were provided as a standing item at each Board meeting informally meeting the Directors during the course of the year.
External input on legal, regulatory and best The overall outcome of the 2015 evaluation showed positive practice developments impacting the Board or the Company was momentum from year to year with clear engagement from the also gained with specialist advisers invited to the Board and its Board on continuous improvement.
The evaluation concluded that Committees to provide briefings on overall market and economic the Board continues to promote open debate and is well-supported developments, regulatory enforcement, share dealing, viability in terms of information flow and also showed a unanimity on statements and other general governance issues.
key focus areas for the Board being strategy delivery, succession planning, talent development, and the clear identification and Performance Evaluation management of risks including risk appetite.
The Board continues The Board adopted an in-year approach to its performance to focus on the need to develop High Potential staff members evaluation tackling three distinct themes identified during the 2014 below the senior cadre of management and give them exposure evaluation of year-end governance, strategy and succession.
topic was addressed in a specific review conducted in February, June Appointment and Replacement of Directors and October respectively.
The focus on specific elements of review during the year allowed the Board to conduct a detailed examination The Board membership should not be fewer than five nor more than of each issue and produce immediate feedback as well as valuable, 15, save that the Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time contemporaneous data for the overall performance evaluation.
This to time vary this minimum and or maximum number of Directors.
approach proved extremely effective and will be used again in 2016.
72 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance Report continued Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
for authorisation by the non-conflicted Directors.
In considering A Director appointed by the Board must retire from office at the a Situational Conflict these Directors act in the way they consider first Annual General Meeting AGM after his her appointment.
would be most likely to promote the success of the Company, A Director who retires in this way is then eligible for reappointment.
and may impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation The Board may appoint one or more Directors to any executive or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
The Company office, on such terms and for such period as it thinks fit and it can Secretary records the consideration of any conflict and records any also terminate or vary such an appointment at any time.
The Board believes that the system it has specify that at every AGM, any Director who has been appointed in place for reporting Situational Conflicts continues to operate by the Vesuvius Board since the last AGM and any Director who effectively.
No Situational Conflicts were brought to the Board held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did for authorisation during the year under review.
not retire at either of them, shall retire from office.
However, in accordance with the requirements of the Code, all the Directors Board Accountability will offer themselves for election or re-election at this years AGM.
The biographical details of each of the Directors who are offering Risk Management and Internal Control themselves for election or re-election, including details of their other The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining directorships and relevant skills and experience, will be set out in the a system of risk management and internal control, and for 2016 Notice of AGM.
The biographical details of the current Directors reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to manage, are set out on page 68.
The Board believes that each of the current rather than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and safeguard its Directors is effective and demonstrates commitment to his or her assets.
No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance respective role.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is designed approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2016 AGM relating to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that problems to the election or re-election of all the Directors then standing.
are identified on a timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, The Board has established a formal system to authorise situations operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly The key features of the Groups system of internal control are set out conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
Directors declare Situational Conflicts so that they can be considered Risk Management and Internal Control Key Features Strategy and Comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting process financial reporting Annual budget approved by the Board Monthly operating financial information reported against budget Key trends and variances analysed and action taken as appropriate Vesuvius GAAP Accounting policies and procedures formulated and disseminated to all Group operations Covers the application of accounting standards, the maintenance of accounting records and key financial control procedures Operational controls Operating companies and corporate offices maintain internal controls and procedures appropriate to their structure and business environment Compliance with Group policies on items such as authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions, the management of intellectual property and regulatory issues Use of common accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting software used in financial reporting and consolidation Significant financing and investment decisions reserved to the Board Monitoring of policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk by the Board Risk assessment Continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks and management Risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business Reports made to the Board on how those risks are managed Each major Group business unit produces a risk map to identify key risks, assess the likelihood of risks occurring, their impact and mitigating actions Top down risk identification undertaken at Group Executive Committee and Board meetings Board review of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group The Board is notified of major issues and makes an annual assessment of how risks have changed Governance 73 Reviewing the effectiveness of Risk Management Share Capital and Voting and Internal Control Disclosure of the information regarding share capital, the authorisation received by Directors at the AGM regarding the issue The internal control system covers the Group as a whole, and is of shares and the authority to purchase own shares, is contained on monitored and supported by the Groups internal audit function, page 104 within the Directors Report.
There are no restrictions on which conducts reviews of Vesuvius businesses and reports voting contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Further objectively both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system details are set out in the Directors Report on page 105. of internal control and on those businesses compliance with Group policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee receives reports from Relations with Shareholders the Group Head of Internal Audit and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
The Board is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders in a clear and open manner, and seeks to As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness ensure effective engagement through the Companys regular of the system of internal control, it delegates certain matters to communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
The Company undertakes an ongoing programme of meetings Following the Audit Committees review of internal financial with investors, which is managed by the Chief Executive and controls and of the processes covering other controls, the Board Chief Financial Officer.
The majority of meetings with investors are annually evaluates the results of the internal control and risk led by them.
In 2015, the Company conducted a capital markets day management procedures conducted by senior management.
in conjunction with the GIFA METEC trade show in Dusseldorf, that This includes a self-certification exercise by which senior financial, was attended by 31 analysts, investors and financial professionals.
operational and functional management throughout the Group Feedback on remuneration matters was specifically solicited prior certify the compliance throughout the year of the areas under their to the 2015 AGM, with the Remuneration Committee Chairman responsibility with the Groups policies and procedures.
Since the available to meet shareholders to discuss these matters.
The date of this review there have been no significant changes in internal Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairmen controls or other matters which could significantly affect them.
also remain open for discussion with shareholders throughout the year on matters under their areas of responsibility, either through In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Directors confirm contacting the Company Secretary or directly at the AGM.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that threaten its business The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and that they a year, with the publication of its annual and half-year financial have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal reports.
As the requirement to issue Interim Management Statements control and confirm that the necessary actions have been taken has now fallen away, during 2015 in order to maintain transparency to remedy any control weaknesses identified during the year.
in performance the Company also issued two scheduled trading The Groups principal risks and how they are being managed or updates.
One published immediately prior to the 2015 AGM mitigated is detailed on pages 26 and 27, and the viability statement on 14 May 2015 and the second published on 19 November which considers the Groups future prospects is detailed on page 25.
In conjunction with these announcements, presentations Risk management and internal control is discussed in greater detail or teleconference calls were held with institutional investors and in the Audit Committee report on pages 74 to 79. analysts.
Recordings of these are available on the Groups website www.
com together with copies of any presentation The Audit Committee materials issued.
The members of the Audit Committee are set out on page 74.
All Directors are expected to attend the Companys AGM, The Audit Committee report which describes the Audit Committees providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them work in discharging its responsibilities, is set out on pages 74 to 79. about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or informally afterwards.
Executive Compensation and Risk All of the independent Non-executive Directors serve on both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
They therefore bring their experience and knowledge of the activities of each Committee to bear when considering critical areas of judgement.
This means that for example the Directors are in a position to consider carefully the impact of incentive arrangements on the Groups risk profile and to ensure the Groups Remuneration Policy and programme are structured to accord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite of the Company.
74 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee Committee Members Role and Responsibilities Douglas Hurt Committee Chairman The main responsibilities of the Committee continue to be: Nelda Connors Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company Hock Goh and any formal announcements relating to the Companys Jane Hinkley financial performance Review the Companys internal financial controls and internal The Audit Committee control and risk management systems The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent NonEstablish and review procedures for detecting fraud, and systems executive Directors of the Company, who bring a wide range of and controls for the prevention of bribery, along with overseeing financial and commercial expertise to the Committees decision the Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns making.
I succeeded Jeff Hewitt, a Chartered Accountant and about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters experienced finance professional, as Chairman of the Audit Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Committee following the 2015 AGM.
I would like to thank Jeff for audit function his diligent leadership of the Committee and the well established Make recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment and framework for Committee deliberations that I have inherited removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration from him.
Prior to joining the Board of Vesuvius plc as the Senior and terms of engagement of the external auditor Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, I was Monitor and review the external auditors independence, the Finance Director of IMI plc for nine years, and have worked in objectivity and effectiveness, taking into consideration relevant UK various financial roles throughout my career.
I am also Chairman of professional and regulatory requirements.
the Audit Committee of Tate & Lyle PLC and a Chartered Accountant.
The Committee operates under formal Terms of Reference approved This background provides me with the recent and relevant financial by the Board, which were updated during the year and now reflect experience required under the 2014 UK Corporate Governance changes introduced by the September 2014 revision to the Code.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the The revisions to the Code introduced changes to the assessment Committee.
and reporting of principal risks and the publication of a new forwardMeetings looking viability statement.
The Committee has embraced these changes.
In light of the Competition and Markets Authority Order The Committee met five times during the year, continuing with the published in 2014 the Audit Committee also further developed its inclusive approach of previous years, inviting the Board Chairman, approach to the appointment and rotation of the external auditor.
the non-independent Non-executive Director, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Audit and KPMG, the external auditor, to each meeting.
Other Investor Relations Corporate Governance section of the Companys management staff were also invited to attend as appropriate.
Within these Terms the Committee Committee meetings are conducted to promote an open dialogue, and its individual members are empowered to obtain outside legal or to constructively challenge significant accounting judgements, to other independent professional advice at the cost of the Company.
provide guidance and oversight to ensure the business maintains These powers were not required during the year.
The Committee an appropriately robust control environment, and seek to provide a may also secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee pragmatic approach to advising the Board.
The Committee has met or other parties with relevant experience and expertise should it be twice since the end of the financial year prior to the signing of this considered necessary.
Activities in 2015 During the year, the Committee met privately on two separate The 2015 financial year proved challenging in respect of market occasions with KPMG and the Head of Internal Audit, without any conditions and the business environment, and the Committee executives being present.
In my role as Audit Committee Chairman, devoted time to ensuring that initiatives to mitigate potential risks I have encouraged open communications with KPMG and the Head and financial exposure remained robust and appropriate.
Discussions of Internal Audit between Audit Committee meetings to discuss any were held to review the adequacy of provisions and the potential emerging issues.
Additionally, the Audit Committee members met impairment of assets in light of changes in the short to medium-term and discussed business and control matters with senior management outlook for the business, as well as other implications of the Groupduring site visits, informal meetings and Board presentations.
wide restructuring programme undertaken in response to prevailing The outcomes of Audit Committee meetings were reported to the conditions within Vesuvius end-markets.
Board and all members of the Board received the agenda, papers and minutes.
Governance 75 The Committee also focused a proportion of its time on cautious, but not overly prudent.
I support the approach previously understanding the outputs from improvements in the internal audit adopted by the Committee in that consistency of judgement function and ensuring that these gained traction within the business.
over time remains a critical consideration, so that the trend in The Committee considered the Companys going concern statement reported performance is not distorted by differing judgements by and reviewed a range of financial modelling scenarios undertaken management on issues that span more than one reporting period.
to support the viability statement made by the Company for the first KPMG proposed no material audit adjustments arising from their time.
The viability statement is contained within the Strategic Report year-end audit, which provided additional comfort to the Committee.
As part of this process, rigorous stress testing was undertaken by the business in assessing the principal risks The Committee considered and recommended that adopting that may threaten the business model, future performance, solvency FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework would be most appropriate and liquidity of Group.
for Vesuvius plc single company accounts for the year ending 31 December 2015.
This was communicated to shareholders as part of I and the other members of the Committee believe that we received the 2015 interim dividend mailing made on 25 September 2015.
The sufficient, relevant and reliable information from management and Company has received no objections from shareholders.
the external auditor, to enable us to discharge fully our responsibilities in assisting the business to navigate through this challenging year.
Management is assessing the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, both I have elaborated on the work of the Audit Committee in line with its being effective from 1 January 2018, and IFRS16 Leases effective various responsibilities in the paragraphs below.
from 1 January 2019, on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial Reporting Significant Issues and Material Judgements We fulfilled our primary responsibility to review the integrity of the In discussing the significant issues and areas for material judgement, half-year and annual financial statements and recommend their I have distinguished between issues that were specific to the year and approval to the Board.
We also considered the two trading updates ongoing topics that persist from year to year.
released during the year in place of the previously required Interim Management Statements.
Significant issues arising from developments in the year: In forming our views, we assessed: Exceptional items The Group has commenced a restructuring programme in The quality, acceptability and consistency of the accounting policies response to the structural changes in the end-markets it serves.
and practices Accordingly, the Committee has reviewed the treatment of the The clarity and consistency of the disclosures, including compliance restructuring costs reported as exceptional items in 2015, and with relevant financial reporting standards and other reporting believes that this has been treated consistently with the accounting requirements policy.
This ensures that only exceptional restructuring charges Significant issues where management judgements and or are reported separately, which enables the reader more clearly to estimates have been made that are material to the reporting or understand the underlying profitability trend of the Company.
where discussions have taken place with the external auditor in arriving at the judgement or estimate Significant repeating topics considered were: In relation to the overall Annual Report, we considered whether Working capital provisions the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced Given the challenging trading environment that the Groups and understandable, taking into consideration all the information customers faced in 2015, the Committee assessed the adequacy available to the Committee of provisions held against receivables and inventories Notes 19 Reviewed the application of the FRCs guidance on clear and and 20 to ensure that appropriate levels in the current trading concise reporting.
The Committee was assured that The Committee actively deliberated on reports from the Chief the provisioning reflected reasonable estimates of recoverability of Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller.
These were well the outstanding working capital prepared and analysed various alternatives, as appropriate, relating Provisions to areas of judgement and or estimation.
KPMG also delivered The Committee has been made aware of a number of potential memoranda for the half-year and year-end, stating their views exposures and claims arising from ongoing litigation, product on significant issues.
KPMG provided a summary for each issue, quality issues, employee disputes, restructuring, environmental including their assessment of the prudence of managements matters, onerous leases, indirect tax disputes and indemnities or judgements or estimates.
The Committee considered the overall warranties outstanding for disposed businesses.
Due to the long degree of prudence applied this year and in comparison with the gestation period before settlement can be reached, provisioning prior year.
Importantly, and consistently with previous years, the for these items requires careful judgement in order to establish Committee agreed with KPMG that the judgements made were a reasonable estimate of future liabilities.
After consideration and with expert advice sought in certain areas, the Committee is 76 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee continued satisfied that there are appropriate levels of provisions set aside In forming our view we also considered the implications for the to settle third party claims and settlement of disputes Note 33. effective tax rate used in the accounts.
Taking all the inputs into Where the outcome of an existing issue is uncertain, or where no account the Committee concurred with the views of management, reliable estimate of the potential liability can be made, no provision but emphasised that this issue would remain an important has been made and appropriate disclosure is included under judgement area for some time contingent liabilities Note 35 In summary, the Committee resolved that the judgements and Impairment of intangible assets estimates made on each of the significant issues it considered were The carrying value of goodwill, 561.2m, and other intangible appropriate and acceptable.
assets, 122.5m, at year-end, were tested against the recently approved planned performance of the Steel and Foundry cashFair, Balanced and Understandable Reporting generating units CGUs and a robust set of assumptions.
The The Committee assessed all information available to it in considering detailed assumptions, provided in Note 18, show a higher equity the overall drafting of the Annual Report and Accounts and the risk premium reflecting the steel industrys current downturn and a process by which it was compiled and reviewed, to enable it to volatility factor that better represents the wider foundry industrys provide advice to the Board that the Annual Report is fair, balanced end user markets the Group serves.
The changes were evaluated and understandable.
To facilitate the Audit Committees oversight by the Committee in light of Board-agreed medium-term business of the finalisation of the financial statements an extra committee plans, longer-term projections and expert views on discount meeting was scheduled in February 2016 for the Committee to rates.
The models indicated that there is significant headroom review early drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts, and provide between the value in use and the carrying value, consequently the constructive challenge, advice and guidance where necessary.
In Committee is satisfied that no impairment charge is required doing so the Committee ensured that time was again dedicated Pensions to the drafting process so that linkages and consistencies could The complexities of pension accounting and appropriateness of be worked through and tested.
Drafts of the Annual Report and assumptions used described in Note 29 were considered carefully Accounts were also reviewed by a knowledgeable executive not by the Committee, as small changes in the assumptions could have directly involved in the year-end process who reported to the material effects and bond yields in particular have been volatile.
Committee on his impressions of clarity, comprehensiveness, balance The assumptions made by management for each of the major and disclosure.
On completion of the process, the Committee was schemes were compared by KPMG with other similar schemes.
satisfied to recommend to the Board that the Annual Report was fair, The Committee agreed the reasonableness of the assumptions balanced and understandable, and advised the Board accordingly.
Income tax payable and provisions Provisioning for income tax remains a complex area where Internal Controls judgements are made, for example, on provisions relating to taxes The Committee considered the process by which management that might arise from challenges to transfer pricing policies.
The evaluated internal controls across the Group.
The Head of Internal Committee agreed the basis of the provision of 44.2m for income Audit provided the Committee with a summary overview of the tax payable and provisions as set out in Note 11.
Though the assurance provided by internal controls and the testing of these Groups policy on tax planning is not aggressive, the Committee controls.
Additionally, KPMG reviewed controls in the businesses is aware that all corporate tax affairs are under increased scrutiny.
within the scope of its audit and this also indicated a positive control Discussions with internal tax experts were held and the results of environment, showing an overall further improvement on last year.
recent tax audits considered in forming the Committees decision to concur with managements view The Group is made up of several large operating units, but also Deferred tax assets many small ones in geographically diverse locations.
Consequently, At the end of 2014, the Group had recognised 54.0m of segregation of duties, overlapping access controls on systems and deferred tax as an asset in the US after extensive modelling.
As remote management oversight can give rise to control vulnerabilities noted last year and detailed on pages 126 -127, the Group has and fraud opportunities.
significant additional tax losses and other temporary differences in The Group has not adopted a single ERP system as a Group-wide the US and elsewhere which were not recognised, though it was standard.
Over time, management intends to move to more sharing agreed they would be kept under review.
The future prospects of services, enabled by process and systems standardisation between for US profitability were carefully reviewed with management businesses.
This is likely to improve the overall internal controls in the and, whilst tempered by current difficult trading conditions, were smaller operating units.
considered sufficient to sustain a deferred tax asset in the US at the end of 2015 at the same US dollar level as at the end of A series of risk assessments of the Groups Bribery and Corruption 2014.
The recognition of deferred tax assets for tax losses and exposure were conducted during the year in conjunction with other temporary differences is a highly technical area where the external advisors.
The output of these assessments will be used Committee has drawn on internal experts to understand the to refresh the Groups established existing policies and procedures treatment.
We reviewed the modelling and the implications for in this area and forms part of the Groups ongoing assessment of the reported tax rate and concluded that the sustained recognition compliance risks.
of this asset was consistent with the estimation applied last year.
