Governance 83 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Structure The current members of the Remuneration Committee the Committee are all the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company.
Jane Hinkley who also serves as the Committee Chairman and Nelda Connors served on the Committee throughout 2015 and in 2016 to date.
Jeff Hewitt served on the Committee until his retirement from the Board at the 2015 AGM and Hock Goh and Douglas Hurt joined the Committee on their appointment to the Board on 2 April 2015.
The Committee complies with the obligations of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the composition of Remuneration Committees.
Each of the members brings a broad experience of international businesses and an understanding of their challenges to the work of the Committee.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Members biographies are on page 68.
Meetings The Committee met five times during the year with full attendance, other than in respect of one meeting when Nelda Connors was prevented from attending for personal reasons and two meetings when Hock Goh was unable to attend whilst recuperating from a surgery.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, and Vice President Human Resources were invited to each meeting, together with Christer Gardell, our non-independent Non-executive Director, though none of them participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
In addition the Chief Financial Officer attended where the agenda of the Committee required it.
This attendance supported the work of the Committee, giving critical insight into the operational demands of the business and their application to the overall strategy of remuneration within the Group.
In receiving views on remuneration matters from the Executive Directors and senior management, the Committee recognised the potential for conflicts of interest to arise and considered the advice accordingly.
The Chairman of the Committee reported the outcomes of all meetings to the Board.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which were reviewed and updated during the year and approved by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Group website www.
The Committee members are also empowered to obtain outside legal advice at the cost of the Company in relation to their deliberations.
These powers were not exercised during the year.
The Committee may also secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee or other parties it considers necessary.
Role and Responsibilities The Committee is responsible for: Setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of management below Board level and their direct reports Overseeing the operation of any executive share incentive plan.
Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee As a result of the tender process undertaken in 2014, Deloitte was appointed as the new external adviser to the Committee in December 2014.
They were appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice on executive remuneration matters, including remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practice and trends, and guidance on the implementation and operation of long-term incentive plans.
Deloitte is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK.
Deloitte also provides the Remuneration Committee with ongoing calculations of Total Shareholder Return to enable the Committee to be updated on the performance of long-term share incentive plans and in addition in 2015, within the wider Group, Deloitte was procured locally to provide limited accounting and tax advisory work.
During 2015 Deloittes fees for advice to the Remuneration Committee, charged on a time spent basis, amounted to 50,000.
The Committee has, after consideration, concluded that it is satisfied that the advice provided to it on executive remuneration matters is objective and independent and that no conflict of interest arises as a result of other services provided to the Group.
84 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Activities of the Remuneration Committee The key matters the Remuneration Committee considered during its five meetings in 2015 included: Considering and setting an appropriate remuneration package for Guy Young, the new Chief Financial Officer details of the appointment process and members of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 80 and 81 The salary review proposals for Franois Wanecq, the Chief Executive, and an overview of the proposals for senior management Reviewing achievement against performance targets, and approving pay-outs, in respect of 2014 annual cash bonus incentive arrangements Setting performance targets and approving the structure of the 2015 annual cash bonus incentive arrangements Reviewing the structure of the 2016 Annual Incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors which will now include an element linked to the achievement of personal objectives Considering the Companys attainment of performance conditions applicable to the awards made in 2012 under the Cookson Long Term Incentive Plan and authorising the vesting of these awards where relevant Setting the performance conditions and authorising the grant of awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan and Medium Term Incentive Plan Introducing a regular cycle of updating for the participants in the Vesuvius Share Plan on progress against applicable performance conditions In the light of advice received from the external advisers regarding trends in remuneration practice and governance, and any feedback from institutional shareholders, discussing the Companys overall approach to executive remuneration and reviewing whether any changes should be made Reviewing the Executive Directors shareholding policy Reviewing the Remuneration Committees terms of reference, and recommending amendments to the Board for approval Reviewing and approving the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report.
During 2015 the Committee has also established an effective working relationship with its new advisers, Deloitte, who have also supported the Vice President Human Resources in the work he does to assist the Committee.
As in previous years, the Committee was the subject of an externally moderated performance evaluation, which showed strongly positive results for the processes and deliberations of the Committee and for its agenda.
The support given by Deloitte, as external adviser, was also highly rated in the evaluation.
Regulatory Compliance The Remuneration Policy set out on pages 94 to 102 was prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This Remuneration Report sets out how the provisions of the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code are applied by the Company in relation to matters of remuneration.
We have complied for the year under review with these provisions.
Share Usage Under the rules of the Vesuvius Share Plan, the Company has the discretion to satisfy awards either by the transfer of Treasury shares or other existing shares, or by the allotment of newly issued shares.
Awards made to senior managers by the Company over shares pursuant to the Medium Term Incentive Plan must be satisfied out of shares held for this purpose by the Companys employees share ownership plan trust ESOP.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Remuneration Committee which considers the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
At 31 December 2015 the Company held 7,271,174 ordinary shares in Treasury and 1,730,288 Vesuvius shares were held in the ESOP.
The Trustee of the ESOP can be gifted Treasury shares by the Company, can purchase shares in the open market or can subscribe for newly issued shares as required, to meet obligations for the provision of shares to satisfy options and awards that vest.
The Vesuvius Share Plan complies with the current Investment Association guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on discretionary schemes.
More than 9.9% of the 10% limit and more than 4.9% of the 5% limit is available as headroom for the Company.
No Treasury shares have been transferred or newly issued shares allotted under the Vesuvius Share Plan during the year under review.
