Governance 77 Each year the senior financial, operational and functional Internal Audit annually audits each of the large operating entities management of the businesses self-certify compliance with Group located in Germany, the US, China, Mexico and Brazil.
policies and procedures for the areas of the business under their In 2015, 53 audit assignments were undertaken covering 75% of responsibility, which provides another safeguard.
In 2015, the the Groups revenue and 60% of the Groups profit before tax.
The process of self-certification was reviewed and refined in consultation Committee reviewed progress against the agreed plan and discussed with the Audit Committee.
Consequently, updated internal control recent reports with the Head of Internal Audit at each of its meetings.
questionnaires were introduced which provide a greater assurance The internal audit coverage is greater than in previous years and that the signatories have performed a review of the internal control audits are carried out with more in-depth analysis across legal entities systems in relation to their responsibilities.
This was carried out and operating units.
In addition, many project-based reviews have without material exception at the end of 2015. been introduced and will continue over the coming years.
After considering these various inputs, the Committee was able In 2015, 96% of the agreed audit plan was completed, with PwC to provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of internal and Grant Thornton retained as external outsourced auditors financial control within the Group, and on the adequacy of the to supplement the internal audit team.
The outsourcing process Groups broader control systems.
In the 2014 Annual Report, we provided valuable learning and we expect to use more outsourcing reported on control deficiencies in Vesuvius Brazils steel business in specialist areas or geographies in the future.
Where control issues that had been exacerbated as result of the implementation of a new or other problems are flagged by the fieldwork, they are recorded in ERP system and management changes.
The Internal Audit reviews a live web-based database into which management and operational combined with the KPMG interim control review showed that the entities are required to report progress against audit exceptions.
In level of control had noticeably improved in Brazil during the year.
this way, Internal Audit can monitor the progress and adequacy of This was due to the continued focus of new financial management the remediation steps taken.
Consequently, the Committee was supported by experienced managers in place since 2014, on assured that appropriate and timely actions were taken by the stabilising and maximising the use of the new ERP, thereby ensuring responsible management.
The Audit Committee also involved senior increased reliability in financial reporting and strengthened internal management as necessary to provide an update against actions and controls and account reconciliations.
Internal Audit provided follow-up reviews as required to ensure there The Committee also continued its monitoring and oversight of was clarity on the responsibility for delivery of solutions to the audit the procedures for the receipt and treatment of complaints by findings.
In situations where audit findings required longer-term employees.
The Groups Speak Up facility provides an independent solutions, the Committee oversaw the process for ensuring that and confidential service worldwide where employees may register interim measures were established to mitigate risks while permanent any concerns about any incorrect or irregular practices they perceive solutions are pursued.
A limited number of issues were raised during An internal perceptions survey of the quality and effectiveness of the year, which were appropriately investigated.
The effectiveness Internal Audit was again undertaken in 2015, and the team scored of the internal Speak Up facility is primarily dependent on the highly on their approach.
The high standing with which Internal business familiarity with it, and its ease of use.
In 2016 the Group Audit is held within the Group is being further enhanced by its will undertake a re-communication of our procedures on speaking up ongoing development programme.
and the availability of management and, as a last resort, the helpline, to receive such concerns.
Risk Management Internal Audit As highlighted in the reviews of strategy and principal risks in the Strategic Report, risk management is inherent in managements The Groups Internal Audit function operates on a global basis thinking and is embedded in the business planning processes of through professionally qualified and experienced individual members the Group.
The Board is responsible for identifying and monitoring located in major centres, who report to the Head of Internal Audit, the principal risks facing the business and with the Group Executive based in London.
She in turn reports directly to me.
Committee ensures implementation of mitigating actions.
The Audit The Committee received, considered and approved the 2015 Internal Committee has continued its monitoring role.
This framework for Audit plan, which was constructed using a risk-based approach to identifying and dealing with the principal risks is consistent with the coverage of the Groups control environment.
During 2015, the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee also considered and approved changes to the Internal As in previous years, bottom-up risk registers were constructed Audit plan as required.
The Committee also received confirmation and reviewed in each major business.
The Head of Internal Audit that the majority of actions identified by the PwC review of Internal coordinated the accumulation of these operational risks for Audit effectiveness conducted in 2014 had been completed, with a consideration by the Group Executive Committee and then by the final action on peer work review processes being addressed.
The Directors also added their individual views of top-down Internal audit coverage has been intensified with an increased strategic risks into the process, including the broader economic, coverage of smaller operating units.
All operating units are internally environmental and organisational issues facing the Group.
In audited at least once in every three-year period.
A third of operating monitoring the overall process, Committee members also fully units are now subject to audit twice in every three-year period, and participated in the Board review of risks and mitigating actions.
In 78 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit Committee continued particular, the Committee determined that the process for identifying on a detailed risk assessment, the Committee agreed a materiality principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 26 and 27 was figure of 4.6m for Group financial reporting purposes which is robust and appropriate.
lower than last year 5.7m and, in line with similar groups, is set at about 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for restructuring costs of External Audit 14.6m that are considered specific and non-recurring.
Importantly much lower levels of materiality are used in the audit fieldwork on The Committee and the Board are committed to maintaining the the individual businesses across the Group and these lower figures excellence of the external audit process.
The effectiveness of the drive the scope and depth of audit work.
Small operations were external audit process was again tested by considering the quality subject to statutory audit as required under local regulations, and, of issues and challenges raised by KPMG to the Committee and subject to risk assessment, were also reviewed by Internal Audit.
Any to management across the Group and by the responsiveness of misstatements at or above 0.23m were reported to the Committee.
management to these challenges in generating financial reporting that is of the high standard expected by our shareholders.
An The coverage of the audit at 71% of the Groups revenue, 78% of internal quality and perceptions review of KPMG was carried out profits and losses that made up profit before tax and 84% of assets across the Group by the Group Financial Controller.
Overall feedback was considered by the Committee.
The audit coverage is reflective of indicated that KPMG performed in line with expectations, delivering the long tail of smaller businesses within the Group that individually consistently high quality work as in previous years.
There continued are not material to the Group result.
to be a good professional relationship and open communication between the business and KPMG that facilitated proper audit External Auditor Independence planning, risk assessment and execution.
The safeguards to protect the independence and objectivity of the The KPMG audit fee was constructed bottom-up, and was auditor that continued during the year include: considered in light of the audit work required by the agreed Regular confirmation that the external auditor is independent of materiality level and scope.
Following some further negotiation the the Company in its own professional judgement fee was agreed by the Committee for recommendation to the Board.
Evaluating all the relationships between the external auditor and The Board approved the fee of 1.8m, which is the same as 2014. the Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit Within the external audit process, communications between the services to determine whether these impair, or appear to impair, Committee and KPMG were extensive.
KPMG provided updates the auditors independence.
to the Committee at the half-year and running up to the year-end, The external auditor is prohibited from performing services where it: including regular commentaries on significant issues and their assessment of prudence in the judgements and estimates made by May be required to audit its own work management.
In February 2016 the Audit Committee also held a Would participate in activities that would normally be undertaken preliminary meeting on year-end issues in advance of the finalisation by management of the financial statements in early March.
Private sessions were Is remunerated through a success fee structure held with KPMG without management being present, covering Acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
reporting and control issues in the context of the resourcing of the The Groups Non-audit Services policy was reviewed by the Group Finance team.
I met on a number of occasions with KPMG Committee and updated during the year, and is available on the to monitor the progress of the audit and discuss questions as they Investor Relations Corporate Governance section of the Companys arose.
The strength of the finance teams across the Group was also website, www.
The policy details the pre-approval considered.
In these sessions KPMG confirmed that their work had process for, and monitoring of, approved non-audit services provided not been constrained in any way and that they were able to exercise by the external auditor, in addition to the list of services of which the their appropriate professional scepticism and challenge throughout external auditor is specifically excluded from providing.
In keeping the audit process.
with ensuring the independence of the external auditor, the policy In September 2015 the Audit Committee met the KPMG team for also addresses the employment of former members of the external Germany.
The Committee reviewed the KPMG teams proposed audit team specifying the strict controls imposed by the Company.
audit plan, how the audit was being approached in respect of risks An annual budget for non-audit services where management and uncertainties and sought insight into the controls in place.
This proposes to engage the external auditor is presented for pre-approval meeting gave the Committee additional evidence of the effectiveness to the Committee as part of the overall budgeting process.
Where a of the Groups external audit.
specific non-audit fee is likely to be in excess of 50,000, it must be The independent auditors report provided by KPMG on pages pre-approved by the Committee and where appropriate, services are 110 to 112 includes KPMGs assessment of the risks of material tendered competitively prior to the awarding of work.
In practice, the misstatement in the accounts.
The Committee and management Group does not seek to engage KPMG for non-audit services unless concur with their assessment.
These items are included in significant there are compelling advantages to doing so.
issues and material judgements comments noted above.
The report During 2015, the fees for non-audit services amounted to 0.2m, also summarises the scope, coverage and materiality levels applied by similar to last year.
The fees comprised assurance services related KPMG in their audit.
As part of the audit planning process and based Governance 79 to the review of the Companys half-year financial statements and external auditor, and the reasons why the proposed year for the limited taxation advice, as detailed in Note 6 on page 123, for which competitive tender process is in the best interests of the shareholders.
it was concluded that KPMG was best-placed to support the Group.
In compliance with the Order, the Audit Committee confirms that a The Committee also monitored fees paid to other large accounting competitive tender process for the appointment of a statutory auditor firms as part of the non-audit services fees review so as to determine will be conducted during 2016 with a view to recommending the appointment of a new statutory auditor for the financial year ending where there might be any current or future conflicts of interest.
Under its Regulation on statutory audit services, the EU framework for a more restrictive regime for non-audit services will come into The Committee Evaluation force in June 2016.
The restrictions will broadly prohibit external The Audit Committees performance was evaluated as part of the auditors involvement in tax services, any services that involve playing overall externally facilitated Board and Committee performance a part in management decision making, preparing accounting evaluation, and rated highly overall against performance criteria.
records, designing or implementing internal control risk management The changes in both the Audit Committee Chairman and Chief services or financial systems, certain HR services and other legal, Financial Officer were recognised as bringing fresh perspectives investment and share dealing services.
There will also be a 70% cap to deliberations and also providing new challenges in respect of on the fees for all non-audit services relative to the audit fee.
The establishing new and improved ways of working.
Initiatives for Non-audit Services policy will be reviewed over the coming year and performance improvement and areas for focus over 2016 included amended as appropriate in order to comply with the new rules.
strengthening the framework of the risk management programme External Auditor Reappointment by increasing oversight and controls within those regions considered higher risk, and the Committee deep dives, by which the executives Given the performance of KPMG and the likely tendering framework, will present a detailed examination of the issues related to specific the Committee has recommended, and the Board has agreed, that, topics or business operations.
During 2016 the Committee will subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM, KPMG should be continue to seek improvements in its performance and deliberations reappointed as auditor for the financial year ending 31 December by implementing the actions identified by the review.
Further details 2016. of the evaluation of the Board and its Committees are given on page 71.
KPMG has been the Companys statutory external auditor since its listing on the London Stock Exchange on 19 December 2012, On behalf of the Audit Committee and prior to the listing of Vesuvius plc, was Cookson Group plcs external auditor for over 20 years.
The current lead audit partner, Douglas Hurt Chairman, Audit Committee Paul Korolkiewicz, has been in place since the audit for the year 3 March 2016 ended December 2012.
Accordingly, he is due to rotate off at the conclusion of the audit for the year ending 31 December 2016.
The Audit Committee recognises the professional work of KPMG as auditors: however, in view of the rotation of the lead audit partner and the development of legislation in respect of auditor retendering, the Audit Committee believes that conducting a competitive tender process during 2016 for the appointment of a new statutory auditor for the financial year ending December 2017 is appropriate, and in the best interests of the shareholders.
The Code states that FTSE 350 companies should tender the provision of audit services at least every ten years or explain their approach, if different.
The EU Directive and Regulation on statutory audit services, which will come into force in June 2016, includes the requirement that audit firms of all EU companies listed on a regulated market are subject to retender after ten years and rotate off after 20 years.
Due to the length of tenure of KPMG as auditor, transitional provisions under the EU Regulations will require that the Company appoint a new external auditor no later than from 17 June 2020.
Additionally, under the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order published by the Competition and Markets Authority, which came into effect for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015, the Audit Committee is required to report in which year the Company proposes to complete a competitive tender process in respect of the statutory 80 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Nomination Committee The primary responsibility of the Nomination Committee is to focus The Committee operates under formal terms of reference on Board succession planning.
In 2015 the Committee presided over which were reviewed and confirmed during the year.
The terms of the appointment of two Independent Non-executive Directors and reference are available on the Groups website www.
These appointments were made to The Committee and its members are empowered to obtain outside strengthen the Board in terms of its knowledge, skills and experience, legal or other independent professional advice at the cost of the and to replace outgoing Directors who stepped down or retired Company in relation to its deliberations.
These rights were not from the Board during the year.
The Committee continues to have exercised during the year.
The Committee may also secure the a responsibility to ensure that the Board is made up of individuals attendance at its meetings of any employee or other parties with the appropriate drive, abilities and experience to lead the it considers necessary.
Company in the delivery of its strategy.
Process for Board Appointments Committee Members The Committee follows formal, rigorous and transparent procedures John McDonough CBE Committee Chairman for the appointment of new Directors.
When considering a Board Nelda Connors appointment, the Nomination Committee draws up a specification Christer Gardell for the role taking into consideration the balance of skills, knowledge Hock Goh and experience of its existing members, the diversity of the Board, Jane Hinkley the independence of continuing Board members, and the ongoing Douglas Hurt requirements and anticipated strategic developments of the Group.
The search process is then able to focus on appointing a candidate The Nomination Committee with the necessary attributes to enhance the Boards performance.
The Nomination Committee is made up of myself as Chairman of the The Committee uses the services of search firms to identify Company and any three of the Non-executive Directors.
During the appropriate candidates, ensuring that any selected firm is not in year I continued as Chairman of the Committee, though I would not any way conflicted in the delivery of its role.
In addition, the act as Chairman if the Committee was considering the appointment Committee will only use those firms that have adopted the Voluntary of my successor.
In that case, the Chairman would be an appropriate Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in Non-executive Director.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the search assignments.
A long list of potential appointees is reviewed Committee.
Members biographies are set out on page 68. followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview based upon Meetings the objective criteria identified at inception.
Non-executive appointees must be able to demonstrate that they have sufficient time available In early 2015, the Committee updated its agenda in response to the to devote to the role and all prospective Directors must identify output of the 2014 Board evaluation, showing the Boards clear focus whether they have any potential conflicts of interest as part of on succession planning.
Consequently, the Committee met six times the process.
The Committee recommends a preferred candidate during 2015 to consider both standing items and wider successionwho will meet all Board members.
Finally, detailed external related issues.
The Committees agenda was also augmented by the references are taken and following this the Committee makes recruitment exercises that took place during the year.
The Committee a formal recommendation to the Board on the appointment.
will maintain the updated succession agenda in 2016, though with Preferred candidates are supported in undertaking their own due fewer meetings.
As during 2015, succession planning will form diligence on the Company and meeting with its advisers.
an integral part of the Boards strategy deliberations.
In light of the years activities, there was also a significant level of ad hoc discussion Activity in 2015 between members of the Committee.
During the year, the Committee had both Executive and Role and Responsibilities Nonexecutive appointments to consider.
The Nomination Committees foremost priorities are to ensure that The process of appointing a new Audit Committee Chairman the Company has the best possible leadership, maintains a clear to succeed Jeff Hewitt began in 2014.
This recruitment process, plan for orderly Executive and Non-executive Director succession which was detailed in last years Annual Report, continued in 2015 and cultivates the correct skills, experience and diversity in the Boards and resulted in the appointment of Douglas Hurt.
In addition the overall composition.
Its prime focus is therefore on the strength of process to identify an additional Non-executive Director culminated the Board, for which appointments are made on merit, against in the appointment of Hock Goh.
Both Directors were elected by objective criteria, selecting the best candidate for the post.
shareholder resolution at the 2015 AGM.
Douglas Hurt is now The Nomination Committee advises the Board on appointments, the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees.
Committee and Hock Goh is an Independent Non-executive Director.
Governance 81 Specialist recruitment agencies Odgers Berndtson and Spencer Stuart All Directors have served at a very senior level in global respectively, neither having any other connection to the Company, organisations, have international experience across a variety were used to identify suitable candidates for each appointment.
of industries, and most have spent a considerable amount of time resident outside the UK.
The Nomination Committee continues In 2015 the Committee also conducted a recruitment process for to believe that diversity underpins the successful operation of a new Chief Financial Officer to replace Chris OShea.
To recruit an an effective Board and will continue with its policy to review individual of the required calibre, the Committee again retained the requirements in respect of skills, experience, background and Odgers Berndtson to conduct the search.
The Committee compiled gender in respect of the Boards composition.
The Board supports a detailed role profile and Odgers Berndtson was instructed to source the recommendations of Lord Davies on gender diversity and meets candidates with relevant qualifications, abilities and career histories the Davies Reviews 2015 objective set for FTSE 100 companies of to provide a long list of individuals for the Committee to consider.
25% representation of female Directors on boards.
The Committee The Committee required that Odgers identify an appropriate mix of will continue to promote gender diversity on the Board and male and female candidates for the role.
As a result of the process, and subsequent to interviews with Senior Management Succession Board members, senior managers and due diligence review by the Company, which included the solicitation of external references, Succession planning does not exclusively relate to the Board.
Guy Young was identified as the preferred candidate.
Following the It also encompasses senior management, and aims to support recommendation of the Committee, the Board approved Mr Youngs and encourage the growth of a consistent pool of talent able appointment as Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director to step up to the top roles in future years.
During the year, of Vesuvius plc on 16 September 2015. the Committee reviewed the development plans for the Group Executive Committee, and as part of the overall Group strategic The Nomination Committee ensured that all Directors appointed review, each of the Vesuvius business units and head office functions during the year received a comprehensive induction, designed submitted their succession plans in respect of senior executives to in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
More the Board for review.
The Board also met key executives throughout information on the induction process can be found on page 71. the Group in order to gain a greater understanding of the breadth Board Composition and depth of management talent.
This process included a series of presentations to the Board by business unit, functional and Notwithstanding the three appointments made in 2015, the geographical heads, in some cases with senior managers that work Committee will continue regularly and proactively to examine in their teams, to ensure that the Board was exposed to key senior succession planning to ensure an appropriate balance of skills, management.
This process provides the basis for the Boards ability experience and diversity is retained on the Board in the coming years.
to adopt a more informed approach to executive succession planning Governance in Action Board Composition and talent development across the Group.
As part of the annual corporate governance review, the Committee examined the independence of the Board and the lengths of tenure The Committees activities were part of the externally facilitated of each of the independent Non-executive Directors.
evaluation of Board effectiveness during the year.
The Committee also conducted an examination of skills and that the Committee performed effectively against all the evaluation experience deemed necessary at the Board for the next three to five criteria, rating highly overall with strong support for the Committees years.
The exercise focused the Boards attention on the following areas: role in the Board appointment processes conducted throughout the General business experience Specific market sector or functional experience year.
Over the coming year the Committee will continue to focus on Listed company experience Board succession planning and talent development to refresh senior Personal experience and attributes.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee The Committee was pleased to report to the Board that it believes that the Board satisfies the independence requirement set down John McDonough CBE Chairman, Nomination Committee by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The results of the annual 3 March 2016 corporate governance review also showed that the skill sets available to the Company from the Directors matched the current and near-term strategic requirements of the Group.
82 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Overview Dear shareholder, On behalf of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for 2015, set out on pages 82 to 93.
This report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM and sets out details of the pay received by Directors in 2015 and how we intend to apply our Remuneration Policy in 2016.
Our Remuneration Policy will next be put to a vote at the AGM in 2017, which will be three years on from when it was approved at our 2014 AGM.
All payments received by Directors in 2015 were in line with our Remuneration Policy.
I have set out below the key decisions reached by the Committee during 2015.
More detail about these is included in the report.
Performance in 2015 As described in the Strategic Report, in 2015 the Company has faced significant headwinds in our end-markets and whilst cash generation has remained strong and our balance sheet is robust, revenues have declined.
The Committees discussions have taken place against this market background.
In 2015 Annual Incentive awards for Executive Directors were based primarily on Group Headline earnings per share performance.
As our Headline EPS of 28.1 pence was below the threshold set of 35.0 pence, no bonus payment will be made in respect of 2015 to any Executive Director.
The performance period for the share awards made under the Vesuvius Share Plan in 2013 the first year that Vesuvius was an independently listed company matured at the end of December 2015.
Performance for those incentives was measured equally by reference to TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts and Headline EPS growth compared with compound annual GDP growth over the three-year period.
Relative TSR performance was below median and therefore the TSR target was not met.
The EPS growth target over the three-year period of 2013, 2014 and 2015 was also not met.
Key Decisions made since 1 January 2015 An important matter for discussion and decision by the Committee during 2015 was the appropriate remuneration package for Guy Young, our new Chief Financial Officer.
The principal features of his remuneration package were announced at the time of his appointment and they are included in the applicable sections of this years Remuneration Report.
Other key decisions made in 2015 by the Committee included Directors salaries for 2016 and the structure of performance measures for incentives in 2016.
As highlighted in our Remuneration Report in 2013, we have adopted a longer-term horizon of two to three years for base salary increases for Executive Directors and senior executives.
In 2015, the Chief Executive, Franois Wanecqs base salary was reviewed in line with this philosophy for the first time since 2012 and was increased by 7.2%, up to 590,000 from 1 January 2016.
This is in recognition of his leadership of the Group over the three years since demerger and during the current tough trading environment being experienced.
It is intended that Mr Wanecqs salary will not be reviewed again until at least 2018 The Committee intends to use the same financial performance measures in 2016 that were used in 2015 for Executive Directors incentive awards.
These measures reward growth through the EPS measure used in the Annual Incentive and the Vesuvius Share Plan, effective balance sheet management through the working capital adjuster used in the Annual Incentive and delivery of shareholder value through the TSR measure used in the Vesuvius Share Plan.
The Committee decided to align the Executive Directors Annual Incentive Plan with the structure used elsewhere in the Group.
Thus 20% of the total maximum potential Annual Incentive will, in 2016, be based on personal objectives.
The Committee believes that this, combined with the financial performance measures, provides appropriate alignment with Vesuvius current strategic priorities.
In addition, in 2015 the Committee also took decisions about the grant and vesting of share plan awards in 2015 and the Annual Incentive plan payments made in 2015 in respect of 2014.
In February 2016 the Committee also resolved to simplify and amend the EPS performance measure for the Performance Share awards to be granted in 2016 under the Vesuvius Share Plan see page 88 for further details.
Interactions with Shareholders The Committee encourages dialogue with its major shareholders and we will consult with shareholders regarding any significant changes to the Remuneration Policy for 2017.
The Committee is satisfied that the current Remuneration Policy is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company, and that the performance-related elements of remuneration are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
I remain keen to hear shareholders views on remuneration matters and look forward to a continued dialogue with shareholders and their continued support for our Directors Remuneration Report resolution at the AGM.
Yours sincerely Jane Hinkley Chairman, Remuneration Committee 3 March 2016
