Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Board committees continued In March, the Committee reviewed the Boards diversity policy and agreed that since Remuneration Committee the Board had achieved its aspiration of 25% female presence on the Board, the Board Our remuneration policy and executive pay packages are diversity policy should be updated to reflect designed to be competitive and drive behaviour in order to achieve that achievement and should state the intention long-term strategic goals.
When making decisions we are mindful to maintain that level, subject to suitable of the wider economic conditions and shareholderfeedback.
We continue to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained from different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the Board.
Further information, including the proportions of women in senior management, is shown Membership in Our people on pages 28 and in Board Chairman pictured right : Diversity on page 61.
Luc Vandevelde Independent Non-Executive Director During the year, in the context of its corporate Valerie Gooding Independent Non-Executive Director governance responsibilities, the Committee Renee James Independent Non-Executive Director received a report from the Group General Samuel Jonah Independent Non-Executive Director Counsel and Company Secretary Key objective: on developments in corporate governance to assess and make recommendations to the Board on the policies for executive that affect the Company.
It also discussed remuneration and packages for the individual Executive Directors.
the methodology to be adopted for the 2015 review of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and the Directors.
Responsibilities: The Committee also assessed the a determining, on behalf of the Board, the policy on the remuneration of the Chairman of the independence of the Directors and whether Board, the Executive Directors and the senior management team: there were any potential conflicts of interest.
The Committee concluded that all the a determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals including any Non-Executive Directors were independent, compensation on termination of office: notwithstanding in the cases of Luc Vandevelde a operating within recognised principles of good governance: and and Philip Yea who did not participate in the relevant discussions that they had served a preparing an Annual Report on Directors remuneration.
on the Board for more than nine years.
The Committee, and the Board, considered Committee meetings the matter carefully and decided that both No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
these Non-Executive Directors continue The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive may attend the Committees meetings to demonstrate the qualities of independence by invitation but they do not attend when their individual remuneration is discussed.
and judgement in carrying out their roles, No Director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
The Committee met five times supporting the Executive Directors and senior during the year.
management in an objective manner.
Main activities of the Committee during the year The Committee reviewed the composition A detailed report to shareholders from the Committee on behalf of the Board in which, of the Boards committees at the end of the amongst other things, I have included a description of the Committees activities during the financial year.
The Committee also reviewed year, is contained in Directors remuneration on pages 75 to 91. its effectiveness and discussed the outcomes of the overall 2015 Board effectiveness review, in advance of the Board as a whole considering those outcomes.
In the next financial year, the Committee will meet four times, instead of three, to allow greater focus on executive succession planning.
In the year ahead the Committee will continue to assess what enhancements should be made to the Boards and committees composition and will continue to monitor developments to ensure the Company remains at the forefront of good governance practices.
Attendance at scheduled meetings Director Attendance Luc Vandevelde 5 5 Philip Yea member until November 2014 3 3 Renee James 5 5 Gerard Kleisterlee On behalf of the Nominations and Governance Committee Samuel Jonah 5 5 19 May 2015 Valerie Gooding member from February 2015 2 2 70
