Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Other committees Executive Committee Risk and Compliance Committee This is a sub-committee of the Executive Committee comprising three Executive Committee members.
It is appointed to assist the Executive Committee to fulfil its accountabilities with regard to risk management and policy compliance.
In particular, the Committee conducts deep dives into key compliance risks to assess whether they are being effectively managed, approves changes to policies, and maintains an overview of the status of compliance throughout Vodafone so clear and accurate Membership reports can be made to the Audit and Risk Committee twice a year.
Deep dives Chairman pictured right : Vittorio Colao Chief Executive this year covered the policies relating to network resilience, branded partner The Executive Committee includes the Executive markets, business continuity management Directors and the senior managers.
and the Group Enterprise business.
The Committee also received regular reports Key objective: on the culture of compliance across the Under the leadership of the Chief Executive, is responsible for Vodafones overall business organisation including the use of the Speak and affairs including delivery of strategy, financial structure and planning, financial and Up whistleblowing channel, the results of the competitive performance and succession planning.
People Survey and completion of mandatory training programmes on the Code of Conduct.
Committee meetings Disclosure Committee The Executive Committee meets 11times a year.
Topics covered by the Committee include: The Disclosure Committee, appointed a strategy: by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to ensure the accuracy and a substantial business developments and projects: timeliness of Company disclosures, oversees a Chief Executive update on the business and business environment: and approves controls and procedures in relation to the public disclosure of financial a regional Chief Executives updates: information and other information material a Group function heads updates: to shareholders.
It also supports the Board in evaluating the Annual Report a talent: to be fair, balanced and understandable.
a presentations from various function heads, for example, the Group Financial Controller, It is composed of the Group General Counsel the Group Audit Director and the Group Risk and Compliance Director: and and Company Secretary the Chair, Regional Financial Directors, the Group Financial a competitor performance analysis.
Controller, the Group Investor Relations Director, the Group Strategy and Business Annually, the Executive Committee, together with the chief executives of the major operating Development Director and the Group External companies, conducts a strategy review to identify key strategic issues to be presented to the Affairs Director.
The agreed strategy is then used as a basis for developing the upcoming budget and three year operating plans.
The Committee members biographical details are set out on pages 54 and 55 and at vodafone.
