Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Board committees Overview The 2015 financial year has seen the Audit and Risk Committee Committees activity directed towards the integrity of the Groups financial The Committee has continued to focus its work on the accounting and reporting together with the Groups financial reporting, financial control and risk management related external audit, the Groups control and compliance processes.
environment and system of internal controls including the work of internal audit and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance process and the Groups management of risk and compliance related activities.
During the year we also welcomed three new members onto the Committee, as a result of Director retirements, Membership and were actively involved in the transition of the Groups statutory audit Chairman and financial expert pictured right : to  LLP following Nick Land Independent Non-Executive Director their appointment at the 2014 AGM.
Sir Crispin Davis Independent Non-Executive Director Dame Clara Furse Independent Non-Executive Director Looking forward to the 2016 financial year, Philip Yea Independent Non-Executive Director the Committee will work with the Board under its expanded terms of reference, which now Key objective: include providing advice to the Board on the The provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial assessment, management and mitigation reporting including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both the of the principal risks facing the Group, internal audit function and the external auditor and oversight over the Groups systems monitoring the Groups risk management of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
system and its effectiveness and providing advice on how the Groups prospects have Responsibilities: been assessed in order to make the new, The Board has approved terms of reference for the Committee which are available longer term, viability statement.
These provided the framework for the Committees work in the Membership year and can be summarised into five primary sets of activities.
These are oversight of the: The membership of the Committee changed a appropriateness of the Groups external financial reporting: substantially in the year with the appointment of Dame Clara Furse, Sir Crispin Davis and Philip a relationship with and performance of, the external auditor: Yea, in place of Anne Lauvergeon, Alan Jebson a Groups system of internal control including the work of the internal audit function: and Anthony Watson, all of whom retired from the Board at the 2014 AGM.
The new members a Groups system of risk management: and were appointed after a rigorous process a Groups system of compliance activities.
to ensure the Committee has the necessary range of financial experience and commercial Following the publication of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, which will expertise required to provide an effective level be adopted in the 2016 financial year, the Board has approved amendments to the of challenge to management.
All the members Committees terms of reference to include: of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Given my experience, a providing advice to the Board on the assessment performed of the principal risks facing the I continue to be designated as the financial Group including their management and mitigation: expert on the Committee for the purposes a monitoring the Groups risk management system and reviewing its effectiveness: and of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
a providing advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the longer term viability statement and going concern statement to be contained in future Annual Reports.
How the Committee operates The Committee met four times during the year as part of its standard schedule of meetings.
No supplementary meetings were necessary in the year.
For the next financial year we have resolved to increase the standard number of meetings to five to ensure we have adequate time to meet our increased Attendance at scheduled meetings responsibilities particularly in relation to risk management.
Director Attendance Nick Land 4 4 Meetings of the Committee generally take Dame Clara Furse member from September 2014 3 3 place just prior to a Board meeting to maximise the efficiency of interaction with the Board Philip Yea member from September 2014 3 3 and I report to the Board, as a separate agenda Sir Crispin Davis member from September 2014 2 3 item, on the activity of the Committee and Alan Jebson Stepped down from the Board in July 2014 1 1 matters of particular relevance to the Board Anne Lauvergeon Stepped down from the Board in July 2014 0 1 in the conduct of its work.
Anthony Watson Stepped down from the Board in July 2014 1 1 63 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Board committees continued In addition to more recurring activities driven the Groups senior management and the Accounting policies and practices by the Groups external financial reporting external auditor.
This confirmed that the The Committee received reporting from calendar and related regulatory obligations, Committee remained effective at meeting management in relation to the identification the Committee conducts a rolling programme its objectives.
of significant accounting policies including of in-depth review sessions where the the proposed disclosure of these in the 2015 Groups senior management provide briefings Annual Report.
Following this assessment and Main activities of the on key issues and developments including discussions with  Committee during the year in relation to aspects of risk management.
LLP the Committee was satisfied with these I have set out below a summary of the major These reviews help us to understand more judgements and related disclosure which is set activities of the Committee in the year.
fully the context and challenges of their out on pages 109 to 113 of this Annual Report.
Appropriateness of Groups external business operations and thereby ensure the We have included detail in relation to IFRS 15 financial reporting Committees time is used most effectively.
Revenue from contracts with customers The Committees primary responsibility A summary of the reviews undertaken during which is likely to have a very substantial effect in relation to the Groups financial reporting the year are set out within Monitoring the on the Groups accounting when it is adopted, is to review with both management and the Groups risk management system and its which is now likely to be in the 2019 external auditor the appropriateness of the effectiveness below.
half-year and annual financial statements The external auditor,  Further, the Committee discussed with concentrating on, amongst other matters: LLP, is invited to each meeting together with management and subsequently approved a the quality and acceptability of accounting the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the critical accounting judgements and key policies and practices: the Group Financial Controller, the Group sources of estimation uncertainty outlined Financial Reporting Director, the Group Audit in note 1 Basis of preparation to the a material areas in which significant Director, the Group Risk and Compliance consolidated financial statements.
judgements have been applied or where Director, and the Group General Counsel significant issues have been discussed with Significant judgements and issues and Company Secretary.
The Committee the external auditor: The significant areas of focus considered also regularly meets separately with by the Committee in relation to the 2015 a the clarity of the disclosures and  LLP, the Chief accounts, and how these were addressed, compliance with financial reporting Financial Officer and the Group Audit Director are outlined below.
We have discussed these standards and relevant financial and without others being present.
with the external auditor during the year and, governance reporting requirements: We believe that the activities of the where appropriate, how these have been a any correspondence from regulators Committee during the last year have enabled addressed by areas of audit focus as described in relation to our financial reporting: and us to gain a good understanding of the culture in the Audit Report on pages 97 to 104. of the organisation, the risks and challenges a whether the Annual Report, taken faced and the adequacy and timeliness as a whole, is fair, balanced and of the actions being taken to address them.
understandable and provides the Similar to last year, I, together with the information necessary for shareholders Committees secretary, conducted an internal to assess the Companys performance, review of effectiveness of the Committee business model and strategy.
involving the members of the Committee, Significant judgements and issues Matter considered Action Taxation The Group is subject to a range of tax claims and related legal The Group Tax Director presented on both provisioning and disclosure actions across a number of jurisdictions where it operates.
The most of tax contingencies and deferred tax asset recognition at the material claim continues to be from the Indian tax authorities in November 2014 and May 2015 Committee meetings.
relation to our acquisition of Vodafone India Limited from Hutchison He also outlined managements view and response to the changing Telecommunications International Limited group in 2007. political and public attitude to tax and in particular the OECDs action Further details of this claim are described in note 30 Contingent plan to deal with base erosion and profit shifting.
In respect of tax contingencies, the challenge from the Committee Further, the Group has extensive accumulated tax losses as outlined focused on the extent and strength of professional advice received in note 6 Taxation, and a key management judgement is whether a from external legal and advisory firms.
deferred tax asset should be recognised in respect of these losses.
As In relation to the public and political environment, the Committee at 31 March 2015, the Group had recognised a 23.8 billion deferred required management to manage taxes transparently and with due tax asset primarily in respect of these tax losses.
regard to commercial and reputational risks.
In relation to the recognition of the deferred tax assets, the Committee challenged managements expectations for future taxable profits.
The statutory auditor also identified this as an area of higher audit risk and the Committee received reporting from them on these matters.
The Groups disclosure in relation to the judgements underlying the recognition of the Groups significant deferred tax assets and related sensitivity of these asset values to changes of assumptions was enhanced in the 2015 Annual Report.
64 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Significant judgements and issues Matter considered Action Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition, the recognition of revenue on An in-depth review of revenue accounting was undertaken by the a gross or net basis, the treatment of discounts, incentives and Committee during the year.
Management outlined the Groups commissions and the accounting for multi-element arrangements are approach to revenue recognition, particularly for more complex complex areas of accounting.
See note 1 Basis of preparation for more detail.
 LLP shared their approach to the audit of revenue, as part of their presentation of the detailed audit plan.
This In addition there is heightened risk in relation to the accounting for identified the primary risks attaching to the audit of revenue to be a revenue as a result of the inherent complexity in the underlying billing the controls over the underlying accuracy of rating by billing systems and related IT systems.
 LLP reported on the results of their work in relation to the revenue accounting cycle as part of their Committee reporting from their half-year review and the year end audit.
Goodwill impairment testing This is an area of focus for the Committee given the materiality of the The Committee received detailed reporting from management and Groups goodwill balances 22.5 billion at 31 March 2015 and the challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions made including: inherent subjectivity in impairment testing.
The judgements in relation a the consistent application of managements methodology: to goodwill impairment continue to relate primarily to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the business, being: a the achievability of the business plans: a the achievability of the long-term business plan: and a assumptions in relation to terminal growth in the businesses at the end of the plan period: and a the macroeconomic and related modelling assumptions underlying the valuation process.
See note 4 Impairment losses for further detail.
A separate in-depth review on setting discount rates for impairment purposes was also conducted in the year.
This remains an area of audit focus and  LLP provided detailed reporting on these matters to the Committee including sensitivity testing.
Liability provisioning The Group is subject to a range of claims and legal actions from a The Committee received a presentation from the Groups General number of sources including competitors, regulators, customers, Counsel and the Director of Litigation in both November 2014 and May suppliers, and on occasion fellow shareholders in Group subsidiaries.
2015 on managements assessment of the most significant claims.
The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities is an As this is an area of audit focus  LLP also issue where management and legal judgements are important and reviews these claims and relevant legal advice received by the Group, accordingly an area of Committee focus.
to form a view on the appropriateness of the level of provisioning that is shared with the Committee.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group made one significant business acquisition during the Management outlined the key accounting and disclosure impacts in year being the purchase of Ono in Spain.
This gave rise to a number relation to this transaction.
of complex accounting and disclosure requirements particularly in The Committee received detailed reporting from  relation to the valuation of acquired tangible and intangible assets.
LLP on their assessment of the accounting and disclosures made by See note 28 Acquisitions and disposals for further details.
management in both the half-year and annual financial statements.
IT controls in relation to privileged user access The Groups IT infrastructure platform hosts a number of financial Management has implemented new controls in the year to provide reporting related applications.
In the 2014 financial year, an issue was assurance over access to these systems.
identified in respect of privileged user access controls within part of  LLP tested these controls as part of their the IT infrastructure platform which could have had an adverse impact audit approach and confirmed they were operating effectively.
on certain of the Groups controls and financial systems.
Key business controls The Group has continued to concentrate resources on key business The Committee received reports of work performed by management controls to ensure a robust system of internal control.
During the year in relation to the maintenance and development of these controls this work has included particular focus over controls over general during the year together with the results of related reviews performed ledger accounts given the inherent risks and the high volume of by Internal Audit.
related processing, and user access to the Groups core ERP system.
 LLP included these key business controls This work was also responsive to both the identification of a number of on their audit scope and reported to the Committee the results of weaknesses and potential improvements to these processes identified by their audit testing in these areas.
Further detail is provided in the Group Internal Audit.
 LLP audit report on pages 97 to 104.
65 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Board committees continued Regulators and our financial reporting Audit risk Overseeing the relationship The Group received an enquiry letter from The audit risk identification process with and performance of, the UK Financial Reporting Review Panel the is considered a key factor in the overall the external auditor FRRP in relation to its 31 March 2014 Annual effectiveness of the external audit process.
Appointment of Report during the year.
The Committee was For the 2015 financial year, the key risks  LLP involved at all stages of the process, reviewing identified were a combination of those As a result of the tender performed in the all correspondence between the Company identified in the 2014 financial year, one new 2014 financial year, shareholders approved and the Panel.
All matters have been fully specific risk arising from the Groups ongoing the appointment of  addressed and the enquiry is now closed.
organic investment programme, Project Spring LLP as the Groups external auditor at the 2014 As a result the Group has agreed to make and one new risk in relation to the revenue AGM.
Throughout the year the Committee additional disclosure particularly around the accounting process, as follows: oversaw and helped facilitate a smooth judgements in relation to the recognition Previously identified risks transition from the former auditor.
of deferred tax assets which is reflected in this a Carrying value of goodwill Annual Report.
It was a key objective of the Committee a Provisioning for current tax liabilities to ensure that the new statutory auditor Whether the Annual Report, taken became fully familiar with all aspects of the as a whole, is fair, balanced and a Recognition and recoverability of deferred Group that were relevant to the external understandable and provides the tax assets audit process as part of their audit planning.
information necessary for shareholders a Provisioning for legal and regulatory claims Key to this was a formal shadowing to assess the Companys performance, by  LLP of Deloitte business model and strategy.
a Accounting for significant acquisitions LLP through the 31 March 2014 year end audit As part of the Committees assessment and disposals process at our major operating companies of the Annual Report to allow onward a Revenue recognition and at Group.
This included attendance reporting to the Board, it draws on the work at Group Audit and Risk Committee meetings of the Groups Disclosure Committee and New specific risks before their formal appointment.
This was has discussions with senior management.
supplemented by  The processes and controls that underpin our a Capitalisation of costs and asset lives LLP performing detailed audit planning consideration include ensuring that: a Billing accuracy as part of revenue process activities at all the Groups material operating a senior managers providing the locations throughout the late spring and content for the Annual Report are At each meeting of the Committee, summer and a review of Deloitte LLP audit files fully briefed on the fair, balanced and these risks were reviewed and both at major locations.
understandable requirement: managements primary areas of judgement Following this work we received from and the external auditors key areas of audit a a dedicated core team of senior managers  LLP a detailed focus were challenged.
As part of this process, is responsible for the overall co-ordination audit plan for the 2015 financial year the risks associated with the accounting and of content submissions, verification and identifying their audit scope, planning reporting of complex supplier arrangements detailed review and challenge: materiality and their assessment of key risks.
was assessed by both the Committee and The  LLP audit plan a confirmation from senior management the statutory auditor.
This was not assessed for the 2015 financial year was a key output within the business that they consider as being an incremental key risk for external of the transition process and was rigorously the content in respect of their area audit purposes given the nature of the reviewed by the Committee.
of responsibility to be fair, balanced and agreements and the low level of accounting understandable: and judgement required to be applied.
Looking forward, the Committee has recommended to the Board the a the Disclosure Committees review Working with the auditor re-appointment of the external auditor and assessment of the Annual Report We hold private meetings with the external under the current external audit contract as a whole.
auditor at each Committee meeting to provide for the 2016 financial year.
The Directors additional opportunity for open dialogue will be proposing the reappointment We also received an early draft of the Annual and feedback from the Committee and the of  LLP at the AGM Report to enable timely review and comment.
auditor without management being present.
These processes allowed us to provide Matters typically discussed include the positive assurance to the Board to assist them external auditors assessment of business The Committee will continue to review the in making the statement required by the risks and management activity thereon, auditor appointment and the need to tender UK Corporate Governance Code.
the transparency and openness of interactions the audit, ensuring the Groups compliance with management, confirmation that there has with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Committee is committed to continuous been no restriction in scope placed on them and the reforms of the audit market by the improvement in the effectiveness and clarity by management, independence of their audit UK Competition and Markets Authority and of the Groups corporate reporting and has and how they have exercised professional the European Union.
provided support to management to adopt scepticism.
I also meet with the external lead initiatives by regulatory bodies which would audit partner outside the formal Committee enhance our reporting.
As a Committee, we strongly support the professional scepticism, particularly in the areas of key judgement and accounting disclosure, displayed by  LLP.
66 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 External audit process effectiveness Oversight of the a all services that were prohibited by the We have sought to evolve our approach this Groups system of internal SEC for a statutory auditor to provide were year in relation to assessing the effectiveness to cease by 31 March 2014: and control including the of the external audit process.
The framework internal audit function a all engagements that were not prohibited we used had a number of facets by the SEC but would not have met the Assessment of internal controls and comprised: Groups own internal approval policy for The Group has in place an internal control a an assessment by the Committee of the non-audit services were to cease by 30 June environment to protect the business from performance of , 2014 to enable a transition to alternative the material risks which have been identified.
including consideration of the speed in which suppliers, where required.
These services Management is responsible for establishing they gained a detailed understanding of the had a value of approximately 3 million and maintaining adequate internal controls Group given the first year of their audit tenure: through to completion.
over financial reporting and we have responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness a detailed questioning of management As one of the ways in which it seeks to protect of these controls.
in operating companies and Group the independence and objectivity of the on a range of factors that we considered We reviewed the process by which the Group external auditor, the Committee has a policy relevant to audit quality.
This covered the evaluated its control environment.
Our work governing the engagement of the external Groups most senior finance personnel here was driven primarily by the Group auditor to provide non-audit services.
This exposed to the audit process: Audit Directors reports on the effectiveness precludes  from a feedback from the independent chairman of internal controls, significant identified providing certain services such as valuation of the Vodacom local audit committee: and frauds and any identified fraud that involved work or the provision of accounting management or employees with a significant services and also sets a presumption that a feedback from  role in internal controls.
We also held  should only LLP on their performance against their own a number of detailed reviews of the control be engaged for non-audit services where there performance objectives.
environment in Vodafone Italy, Australia and is no legal or practical alternative supplier.
Oversight of the Groups compliance Except as noted above in relation to the auditor The observations from this assessment for activities in relation to section 404 of the transition, no material changes have been the 2015 financial year were presented and Sarbanes-Oxley Act also falls within the made to this policy during the financial year.
discussed at the May 2015 meeting.
considered the firm-wide audit quality For certain specific permitted services, The Committee has completed its review inspection report issued by the FRC in relation the Committee has pre-approved that of the effectiveness of the Groups systems to  LLP in May 2014.
 LLP can be engaged of internal control during the year and by management, subject to the policies set The Committee concluded that there had up to the date of this Annual Report, out above, and subject to specified fee limits been appropriate focus and challenge in accordance with the requirements of the for individual engagements, and fee limits on the primary areas of audit focus and revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, for each type of specific service.
For all other  LLP had applied published by the FRC.
It confirms that services or those permitted services that robust challenge and scepticism throughout no significant failings or weaknesses were exceed the specified fee limits, I, as Chairman, the audit.
Management concurred with identified in the review for the 2015 financial or in my absence another Committee member, this view.
Where areas for improvement were can pre-approve permitted services.
identified, processes are in place to ensure that Independence and objectivity During the year,  the necessary action is taken and that progress In its assessment of the independence LLP and related member firms charged is monitored.
of the auditor and in accordance with the the Group 12 million for statutory audit US Public Company Accounting Oversight Internal audit services.
The Committee approved these Boards standard on independence, Monitoring and review of the scope, extent fees which represented the fee proposed the Committee receives details of any and effectiveness of the activity of the Group as part of the audit tender and scope relationships between the Company and Internal Audit department is an agenda item changes during the 2015 financial year,  LLP that may have at each Committee meeting.
Reports from the including the impact of business acquisitions a bearing on their independence and receives Group Audit Director usually include updates which were primarily in relation to Ono.
confirmation that they are independent of the on audit activities, progress of the Group audit The Committee received formal assurance Company within the meaning of the securities plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits from  LLP that the laws administered by the US Securities and and the action plans to address these areas.
fees were appropriate for the scope of the Exchange Commission SEC.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews Prior to the Board decision in February 2014 and approves both the audit plan for the year In addition to the statutory audit fee, to recommend  and the resources required to accomplish the  LLP and related LLP as the external auditor for the year ended agreed work programme.
I play a major role member firms charged the Group 4 million 31 March 2015,  LLP in setting the Group Audit Directors annual for audit-related and other assurance services, were providing a range of non-audit services objectives and I meet with him regularly in the comprising 3 million for services that had to the Group.
A significant joint exercise was year to be briefed on his teams activity and ceased by 30 June 2014 and 1 million undertaken to confirm their independence the nature of any significant issues arising from of other non-audit fees.
Further details of the from both a UK and US regulatory perspective.
fees paid, for audit and non-audit services The Committee then set the parameters to both  LLP for for any ongoing and future activity.
It was the current financial year and to Deloitte LLP mandated that: for prior years, can be found in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
67 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Board committees continued In the year, the Committee appointed Ernst & During the year management transferred Monitoring the Groups risk Young LLP to perform an independent review the accountability for risk management management system and of the effectiveness of the Groups internal from Group Internal Audit to the Group its effectiveness audit department.
This found that the Risk and Compliance Director, a change The Groups risk assessment process and department continued to function well supported by the Committee.
This change was the way in which significant business risks and was meeting its key objectives and had consistent with the requirements of the 2014 are managed is a key area of focus for the addressed all of the recommendations from UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our activity here was driven the last independent review, performed primarily by the Groups assessment of its in 2010.
Oversight of the principal risks and uncertainties, as set out Groups system of compliance In the 2016 financial year, the Group Internal on pages 32 to 37.
As part of this work The Group held two deep dive sessions Audit team in conjunction with other teams the Committee maintains a programme on compliance related matters in the year.
that form part of the Groups internal control of in-depth reviews into specific financial, These focused on the outputs of monitoring systems will be implementing an integrated operational and regulatory areas of the activities of compliance with Group-wide assurance mapping process to provide business.
During the 2015 financial year, policies, the activities focused on driving a framework to allow the comprehensive reviews were undertaken in the areas of: a consistent culture of compliance within assessment of the assurance and compliance a telecommunications network resilience and the organisation, the results of the use activities for the Groups significant risks.
related technology security: of Speak Up channels in place to enable Compliance with section 404 of the employees to raise concerns about a IT controls including customer and nonUS Sarbanes-Oxley Act possible irregularities in financial reporting customer related data security: The Committee takes an active role or other issues such as breaches of the Code in monitoring the Groups compliance efforts a the control environments in Vodafone of Conduct, and the outputs of any resulting in respect of section 404 of the US SarbanesItaly, Vodafone Australia and Vodafone UK, investigations.
Further, we received summaries Oxley Act, receiving three separate reports with the latter focusing on the integration of investigations into known or suspected from management in the year covering of the recently acquired Cable and fraudulent activities by both third parties scoping, the results of work performed and Wireless business and a major new billing and employees.
We also met with the Group plans for the evolution of the framework system project: HR Director in relation to the consequences in response to ongoing business changes.
for employees of non-compliance with Group a risks and controls within Vodafone The external auditor reported the status policies.
I also meet privately with the Risk Global Enterprise focusing of their work in relation to this matter in each and Compliance Director outside the formal on contract management: of their reports to the Committee.
a shared services and Finance Operations, focused on risk management and the control environment: a revenue recognition including planning for Nick Land the implementation of FRS 15 Revenue On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee which we currently expect to be effective 19 May 2015 for the first time for the 2019 financial year: a review of the findings of an external review over controls in relation to the M-Pesa money transfer service: and a setting discount rates for impairment testing.
I also visited the Groups shared service centre in Pune, India to get a deeper understanding of the finance activities managed from that location and the control environment.
These reviews are critical to the role of the Committee, as they allow us to meet key business leaders responsible for these areas and provide independent challenge to their activities.
We also undertook a number of reviews in relation to the Groups risk management framework: we received reports from the Group Audit Director on the Groups risk evaluation process and reviewed changes to significant risks identified at both operating entity and Group levels.
