Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Board diversity Maintaining the right balance We recognise that diversity is the key foundation for introducing different perspectives into Board debate and for better anticipating the risks and opportunities in building a long term, sustainable business.
Strengthening the pipeline Other initiatives taking place within Board diversity of executive talent the Company which promote gender We launched the Board diversity policy in 2011 Strengthening the pipeline of executive talent and other forms of diversity with the intention of ensuring that diversity, in the Company has remained a key focus During the year, the business has continued in its broadest sense, remains a central feature during the year.
We are continuing to learn to embrace all forms of diversity with the of the Board and that it extends beyond the and build on existing programmes while introduction or continuation of a number boardroom and permeates all levels of the introducing new initiatives to build, broaden of initiatives.
Since the launch, the Board and develop the significant talent which has made positive steps in broadening the a Launching a new global maternity policy exists across the business.
Details of key diversity not just of the Board, but of our that sets the standard on benefits for initiatives include: senior management.
our female employees in 30 countries.
a an executive succession planning update More on this initiative on page 61 25% female presence on the Board is provided to the Nominations and We have made good progress refreshing a Launching a Mobile Gender Equality Governance Committee annually, mapping the Board over the last four years, which steering committee chaired by Serpil successional candidates and opportunities: has resulted in an increase in the proportion Timuray, an Executive Committee member, of female Directors on the Board, to 25% a disclosing our gender diversity targets to accelerate the focus on gender balance in March this year.
Mathias Dpfner has since and progress against these as part of the and the work we do with our female joined the Board, reducing this percentage, European Roundtable Table of Industrialists customers, the work we do in communities though this level will be exceeded when voluntary targets initiative and using our and with our colleagues Luc Vandevelde and Stephen Pusey step membership to identify senior female a Using a gender toolkit to enable a consistent down from the Board at the annual general employees suitable to serve on nonapproach to improving gender diversity meeting in July.
We remain committed executive boards of other companies: across all markets to at least maintaining this level of female a providing senior Vodafone women with the presence in the medium term, whilst ensuring a Running inclusive leadership workshops opportunity to learn about life as a nonthat diversity in its broadest sense remains for our most senior leaders to highlight executive director through our sponsorship a central feature of the Board.
That said, the business benefits of diversity and of the Professional Boards Forum: and the Nominations and Corporate Governance encourage them to act as role models Committee will continue to recommend a senior management mentoring and to promote diversity and inclusion appointments to the Board based on merit and coaching schemes.
across Vodafone uses the annual evaluation process to consider a With employees working in many countries objectively the Boards composition and Best practice executive search worldwide, it is our goal to operate as one effectiveness including an assessment of the The Board continues to support the principles company while keeping our local roots.
of the Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code 24 nationalities are represented in our top of Conduct on gender diversity, demonstrated The Board remains committed to management team and 44% of our senior by remaining committed to engaging only strengthening the pipeline of senior female leaders have completed an international executive search firms which are signatories executives within the business and endorses assignment.
In the 2015 financial year, to this code.
We continued to work with Korn the Groups Recruiting and Managing People we focused on improving our employees Ferry during the year.
Korn Ferry also provide policy, one of the objectives of which is to cultural awareness.
We launched the some of the middle and senior recruitment attract and develop a highly qualified and Vodafone Cultural Navigator, an online tool solutions across some of our footprint.
diverse workforce and ensure that all selection to help employees understand different decisions are based on merit.
cultural preferences so they can work successfully with colleagues and customers around the world 60 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Board diversity Building the pipeline At 31 March 2015 for Board diversity Gender of Board Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Gender of senior management top c. 1600 employees Female Female 25% 23% 7 years 03 years 38% 38% Male Male 46 years 75% 77% 24% Geographic representation of Board Sector experience of Board Gender of total employees Media Italian Ghanaian 8% Telecoms Female 16% Dutch 36% Finance Canadian British 50% Technology Belgian 25% Male American Consumer 64% goods 25% Setting the standard in maternity benefits for women globally In 2015, we launched a global maternity policy that sets a worldwide minimum level of maternity pay for women in 30 countries.
Vodafone is one of the first companies to do this.
From Africa to the Middle East, women at all levels of our organisation will be entitled to at least 16 weeks of fully paid maternity leave and full pay for a 30-hour week for the first six months after they return to work.
Our policy will make a big difference to around 1,000 female Vodafone employees each year, especially those who work in countries where there is little or no legislation to support them after having a baby.
This will be good for our business too.
KPMG estimates that global businesses could save around US$19 billion annually by providing 16 weeks of fully paid maternity leave, because it helps cut recruitment costs and retains valuable knowledge and experience within the business.
