Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Board evaluation, induction and training Evaluating our performance and keeping up-to-date The Board recognises that it continually needs to monitor and improve its performance.
This is achieved through annual performance evaluation, full induction of new Board members and ongoing Board development activities.
Board Evaluation Board effectiveness is reviewed by an external performance evaluation every three years, and will be externally conducted again in 2016.
An internal performance evaluation was carried out this year, with the assistance of Lintstock Limited Lintstock, a London-based corporate advisory firm, which has no other connection with Vodafone.
This years process 2014 financial year evaluation Recommendations Actions taken in 2015 financial year a Each Director completed a confidential online questionnaire, designed Diversity by Lintstock and the Company Secretary Diversity had improved and it should The aspiration of 25% women Board continue on that path.
members was achieved in March 2015. a Lintstock prepared a report based on the completed questionnaires for the Appointments to the Board Chairman and the chairman of each of the The process for appointing Directors The process for Director recruitment has Board committees needed to be accelerated.
been improved and three new Directors have been appointed during the year.
a The Chairman then held one-to-one interviews with each of the Directors Information flow to discuss the reports.
The Directors were Board arrangements and information flows During the year quarterly reports on asked for their views on, amongst other were generally satisfactory, but more focus market share were provided to Directors things: strategic oversight: priorities for could be given on market information and and the Chief Executive discussed change: Board composition and expertise: the changing regulatory and competitive changes in the regulatory and competitive effectiveness of the Boards engagement environment.
Some further refinement of environment, when relevant, during his with shareholders: risk management and the presentation of performance metrics regular reports at each Board meeting.
internal control: Board dynamics and the wasagreed.
Performance metrics were refined in line induction process for new Directors with the recommendation.
a The Chairman reviewed the Directors contributions and the Senior Independent Recommendations for the 2016 financial year Director led the review of the performance This years findings included that the Boards dynamic was good.
It should continue of the Chairman to develop its understanding of the future challenges and trends in Vodafones sector, a Each Board committee undertook especially convergence, technology trends and the regulatory environment.
It should a specific self assessment questionnaire.
increase its focus on customers experience and it should continue to monitor The Audit and Risk Committee managements success in delivering operational strategic objectives.
assessment also included input from The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development the external auditor and relevant in the financial year ahead.
senior management a The Chairman of each Board committee gave feedback on the evaluation of their committee to their committees and to the Board at its meeting in March 2015 a The Chairman discussed Lintstocks report on the performance evaluation with the Nominations and Governance Committee, and with the Board at its meeting in March 2015 58 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 As part of the Boards review of its effectiveness Board Induction Keeping up-to-date in 2015, the Directors assessed whether they The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Keeping up-to-date with key business had enough opportunities for training and each Director receives an induction on joining developments is essential for the Directors development.
The Board is confident that all the Board and receives the training he or she to maintain and enhance their effectiveness.
its members have the knowledge, ability and requires, tailored to their specific requirements.
This is achieved by: experience to perform the functions required This year, an induction programme was a receiving presentations from executives of a director of a listed company.
provided for Nick Read, our new Chief Financial in our business on matters of significance.
Valerie Gooding, Dame Clara Furse This year the Board had training sessions and Sir Crispin Davis were also inducted on topics that are increasingly relevant for into the Board.
Valerie Goodings induction Vodafone as it executes its strategy, namely had been mostly completed during the on fixed access technologies, content and 2014 financial year but she continued her Vodafones digital strategy: introductory visits during the 2015 financial a financial plans, including budgets year.
During the induction process new and forecasts are regularly discussed Non-Executive Directors meet with each at Board meetings: of the Executive Committee members to hear about the aspects of Vodafones business for a the Directors have the opportunity to learn which they are responsible.
They also meet the views of major investors at planned with the Chief Executive of Vodafone UK and, investor relations events throughout when practicable, with at least one other local the year: market chief executive.
The Directors being a visits to different parts of the Group.
inducted also meet with the Group General Details of the Boards visit to Delhi in India Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Audit is set out on page 57: and Director and Group Risk and Compliance Director.
Briefings are provided by a law a regular updates on the Groups businesses firm for those Directors who are not already and the regulatory and industry specific familiar with the laws and regulations affecting environments in which we operate, by way listed companies.
of written briefings and meetings with senior executives and, where appropriate, external sources.
