Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Compliance with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the year ended A.
31March 2015 and to the date of Leadership this document, we complied with A.
2 Division of responsibilities the provisions and applied the main The Boards responsibilities are set out in the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are governance framework outlined on page 51. separate and the key responsibilities of each are set principles of the 2012 version of the The Board held seven scheduled meetings during out on page 51.
UK Corporate Governance Code the year and holds additional meetings, as required.
3 The Chairman All Directors are expected, wherever possible, theCode.
The Code can be found The role of the Chairman is set out on page 51. to attend all Board and relevant Committee on the FRC website frc.
Board meetings are arranged to ensure sufficient meetings, and the annual general meeting.
time is available for the discussion of all items.
Details of Board meetings attendance for the year In accordance with the Code, the Chairman was We note that the 2014 version of are set out on page 53. independent on appointment.
the UK Corporate Governance Code will apply to us for the first time in the 2016 financial year and we intend to be in compliance.
We describe how we have applied Effectiveness the main principles of the 2012 B.
1 T he composition of the Board 2006.
Where authorisation is granted, it would Code in this table, cross referring to Our Board consists of 13 Directors, ten of whom be recorded in a register of potential conflicts and other parts of this Annual Report served throughout the year.
There are nine Nonreviewed periodically.
Directors are responsible Executive Directors, in addition to the Chairman for notifying the Company Secretary if they for further information on internal and three Executive Directors on the Board.
become aware of actual or potential conflicts control and risk management and Changes made to the composition of the Board or a change in circumstances relating to an existing Directors remuneration.
and Committees during the year are set out in the authorisation.
The Executive Directors service Nominations and Governance Committee Report.
contracts and Non-Executive appointment letters This table is intended to assist with The balance and independence of our Board is kept are available for inspection at our registered office under review by our Nominations and Governance and will be available for inspection at our annual the evaluation of our compliance Committee.
Luc Vandevelde will be stepping down general meeting.
during the year and should be read from the Board at the annual general meeting in July B.
4 D evelopment 2015, having served 11 years as a Non-Executive in conjunction with the Governance Details of Board induction and training and Director.
Philip Yea will have served on the Board development is set out on page 59. section as a whole.
for nine years and, in accordance with the Code, the Board has determined that Philip continues B.
5 I nformation and support Headings in the table correspond to to demonstrate qualities of independence and The Board recognises that there may be occasions judgement in carrying out his role, supporting when one or more of the Directors feels the headings in the Code.
the Executive Directors and senior management it is necessary to take independent legal and in an objective manner.
His length of service and or financial advice at the Companys expense.
resulting experience is of great benefit to the Board.
There is an agreed procedure to enable them Nick Land and Samuel Jonah have served on the to do so which is managed by the Company Board for eight and six years respectively.
No such independent advice was sought considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors in the 2015 financial year.
The Company Secretary bring strong independent oversight and continue also assists the Chairman by organising induction to demonstrate independence.
and training programmes, is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed, B.
2 A ppointments to the Board assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors Nick Read was appointed as Chief Financial Officer have full and timely access to all relevant information in April 2014 and Sir Crispin Davis and Dame Clara and advises the Board on corporate governance Furse were appointed as Non-Executive Directors matters.
The removal of the Company Secretary in July and September 2014 respectively.
Dr Mathias is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Dpfner was appointed as a Non-Executive Director B.
6 E valuation with effect from 1 April 2015.
Further details on the process leading to their appointments are set Information on Board evaluation is set out on page 58. out in the Nominations and Governance Report on pages 69 and 70.
3 C ommitment All Directors have submitted themselves for reDuring the year, the Board considered the external election at the annual general meeting to be held commitments of its Chairman, Senior Independent on 28 July 2015 with the exception of Stephen Director and other Non-Executive Directors Pusey and Luc Vandevelde who will step down and is satisfied that these do not conflict with from the Board at the annual general meeting.
their duties and time commitments as Directors The Nominations and Governance Committee of the Company.
Details of our Directors other confirmed to the Board that the contributions made commitments are set out in their biographies by the Directors offering themselves for re-election on pages 52 and 53.
Omid Kordestani stood at the annual general meeting in July 2015 continue down as a Non-Executive Director when he took to be effective and that the Company should support on an executive role at Google.
Changes to the their re-election.
The biographies for our Directors commitments of all Directors are reported to the can be found on pages 52 and 53.
Directors complete an annual conflicts questionnaire.
Any conflicts identified would be submitted to the Board for consideration and, as appropriate, authorisation in accordance with our articles of association and the Companies Act 72 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 In particular, Non-Executive Directors are Chairman.
The Chairman met with the NonA.
4 Non-Executive Directors Luc Vandevelde was Senior Independent Director responsible for bringing a wide range of skills and Executive Directors without the Executive experience, including independent judgement Directors being present at every Board meeting during the year.
The responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director include acting on issues of strategy, performance and risk during the year and individually with each management, constructively challenging the Non-Executive Director as part of the Board as a sounding board for the Chairman, serving as an intermediary for the other Directors, being strategy proposed by the Executive Directors, effectiveness review process.
available to shareholders if they have concerns scrutinising and challenging performance which they have not been able to resolve through across the Groups business, assessing the risk the normal channels, conducting an annual review and integrity of the financial information and of the performance of the Chairman, and in the controls and determining the Companys policy event it should be necessary, convening a meeting for executive remuneration and the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
packages for the Executive Directors and the C. D. E. Accountability Remuneration Relations with shareholders C. 1 F inancial and business reporting D. 1 The level and components E. 1 D ialogue with shareholders The Directors statement of responsibility of remuneration The Chairman has overall responsibility for regarding the financial statements, including the The Remuneration Committee assesses and ensuring that there is effective communication going concern assessment, is set out on pages 94 makes recommendations to the Board on the with investors and that the Board understands and 95.
A further statement is provided on page policies for the executive remuneration and the views of major shareholders on matters 94 confirming that the Board considers that the packages for the individual Directors.
For more such as governance and strategy.
The Chairman Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, information, see the Remuneration Committee makes himself available to meet shareholders for is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Report on page 70 and Directors Remuneration this purpose.
The Senior Independent Director the information necessary for shareholders on pages 75 to 91. and other members of the Board are also to assess the Companys performance, business available to meet major investors on request.
D. 2 Procedure model and strategy.
The responsibility of our Further information on how we engage with our The Board has delegated a number auditor is set out in the Audit Report on pages 97 shareholders can be found on page 62. of responsibilities to the Remuneration to 104.
Committee, including determining the policy E. 2 C onstructive use of the annual C. 2 R isk management and internal control on remuneration of the Chairman, executives general meeting An overview of the Groups framework for and senior management team.
Full details are set Our annual general meeting will be held on 28 July identifying and managing risk is set out on pages out in the terms of reference for the Committee 2015 and is an opportunity for shareholders 32 to 37.
The Board has overall responsibility for published at vodafone.
to vote on certain aspects of Group business the system of internal control.
A sound system and present questions to the Board.
A summary of internal control is designed to manage rather presentation of the full year results is given before than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business the Chairman deals with the formal business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not of the meeting.
All shareholders can question any absolute assurance against material mistreatment member of the Board both during the meeting or loss.
The Board has established procedures that and informally afterwards.
The Board encourages implement in full the Turnbull Guidance Internal participation of investors at the annual general Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the meeting.
The annual general meeting is also Combined Code for the year under review and broadcast live and on demand on our website to the date of this Annual Report.
Voting on all resolutions which are subject to regular review provide at the annual general meeting is on a poll.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating The proxy votes cast, including details of the votes and managing the significant risks we face.
withheld are disclosed to those in attendance Further information on the Boards responsibility at the meeting and the results are published for system of internal control and risk management on our website and announced via the Regulatory can be found in the Directors statement News Service.
A copy of our notice of meeting can of responsibility on page 95 and further information be found at vodafone.
on the oversight of the Groups system of internal control and the monitoring of the Groups risk management system and its effectiveness can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 63 to 68.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditor The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit and Risk Committee including governance over the appropriateness of the performance of both the internal audit function and external auditor and oversight of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Further details of the composition of the Audit and Risk Committee and its activities are set out in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 63 to 68 and the terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee can be found at vodafone.
