Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Chairman Larry Pentz Membership additional executive Director, M L Court.
The Board of Victrex plc The Nominations Committee Other activities carried out during welcomed the publication comprises all of the non-executive theyear included considering the in February 2011 of the Directors and is chaired by the independence, contribution and Company Chairman L C Pentz.
commitment of the Directors standing Davies Review on Women for re-election, reviewing the Companys The Committee met on six occasions on Boards.
Our current succession plan, reviewing the Committee during the year.
terms ofreference and approving the female representation Nominations Committee Report for 2014.
Responsibilities onthe Board is 33% The Committee is responsible for A rigorous and transparent process andis therefore in regularly reviewing the structure, size, was in place for the two non-executive excessof the minimum diversity and composition of the Board.
External search This is to ensure that the Company consultancies were engaged for both representation level by hasthe right leadership to effectively appointments.
EgonZehnder, which has 2015 as recommended deliver the Companys strategy.
Itisalso no other connection with the Company, responsible for succession planning assisted with the process toselect the bythe Davies Review.
and identifying and recommending new non-executive Directors.
The process appropriate candidates for membership was led by the Chairman, supported of the Board when vacancies arise.
The Committee has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions Boardroom diversity in developing the Companys policies on The Boards Statement on Diversity, succession planning and appointments.
which has been published on our website, is as follows: In considering an appointment, the Committee evaluates the balance The Board of Victrex plc welcomed ofskills, knowledge, independence the publication in February 2011 of the and experience of the Board and Davies Review on Women on Boards.
prepares a description of the role Our current female representation on andcapabilities required for a particular theBoard is 33% and is therefore in appointment.
Internal candidates excess of the minimum representation areconsidered where appropriate.
level by 2015 as recommended by the The Nominations Committee also Davies Review.
We also recognise the reviews the time required from importance of diversity in general at eachnon-executive Director and any Board level and our Board members other significant commitments of the comprise a number of different Chairman.
The 2015 review found the nationalities with a wide range non-executives time commitments ofexperience from a variety tobe sufficient to discharge their ofbusiness backgrounds.
Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, the Directors submit themselves for election or re-election at the AGM following their appointment and annually thereafter.
The main activities of the Nominations Committee during the financial year ended 30 September 2015 included leading the search and selection process for, and making recommendations to the Board regarding, the appointment oftwo new non-executive Directors, AJH Dougal and J E Toogood.
Inaddition, itconsidered and recommended the appointment of an Victrex plc 45 Annual Report 2015
