CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors the Board recognises the importance of sound governance and its role in achieving sustainable growth.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and it supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
Victrex continues to maintain and review its systems, processes and policies to support its sustainability and governance practices.
Statement of compliance A detailed review has been Introduction from the Chairman performedof the Companys compliance with the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council To our shareholders and stakeholders FRC in September 2014 and which The Board is accountable to our shareholders and stakeholders was effective for year ends beginning for the Groups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness on or after 1 October 2014.
We have of corporate governance.
We as a Board of Directors are been mindful to ensure that we comply committed to the principles of good governance.
We believe not just with the principles of the Code these principles form the foundations for the long-term success but also the spirit of the Code.
In of the Group, enabling us to achieve our strategy and growth assessing our approach, we have had aims for the future.
The responsibilities of the Board include regard to the FRC guidance on Board setting the Groups strategic aims, providing the leadership to Effectiveness March 2011 and the deliver them, supervising management of the business and FRC guidance on Audit Committees reporting to our shareholders.
Our Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 38 to 48, This report, including the Directors including the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 64.
Remuneration Report on pages 49 to This section of the Annual Report sets out how we manage the 64, describes how the main principles Group and comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate of good governance have been Governance Code.
It also outlines any governance initiatives applied throughout our business.
Except as referred to below, the In the current year, we welcomed three new Directors to Company has complied with all relevant theBoard with the appointments of both Andrew Dougal provisions of the Code throughout the andJaneToogood, as non-executive Directors, and Martin Court year ended 30 September 2015 and as executive Director.
These appointments have strengthened from that date up to the date of theBoards skill set and experience and have positively added publication of this Annual Report.
u The Senior Independent Director is During the year we conducted an externally facilitated Board aware of the views of the Companys evaluation, which assessed our overall effectiveness as a Board.
major shareholders and has a The methodology used and the outcomes are reported on page 43. balanced understanding through regular feedback from the Chairman, We remain cognisant of the strong relationship between ethics the CEO and Group Finance Director.
and governance and the role the Board plays in demonstrating Code provision E. 1.1. envisages that ethical leadership.
We continue to embed our Victrex Global meetings would take place between Code of Conduct across all areas of the business and all the Senior Independent Director territories.
Further information on ethics and social responsibility and major shareholders during the iscontained in our Sustainability Report on pages 24 to 35. year.
Both theChairman and the We operate a clear line of distinction between management, Senior Independent Directors make ledby David Hummel, Chief Executive, who is responsible for themselves available for meetings: theday to day running of the business, and the Board, acting however, none were requested in the under my leadership, which provides constructive challenge to current year and no such meetings management ensuring an open culture of debate that creates took place.
Further information on and preserves value for our shareholders.
how we engage with shareholders is set out on page 44.
Finally, our Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out to the right.
Larry Pentz Chairman For more information visit 8 December 2015 www.
com Victrex plc 38 Annual Report 2015
