Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Committee meetings No one other than a member of the Nominations and Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings: however, other Non-Executive Governance Committee Directors, the Chief Executive and external advisors may be invited to attend.
In the event The Nominations and Governance Committee continues its work of matters arising concerning my membership of ensuring the Board composition is right and that our governance of the Board, I would absent myself from the is effective.
meeting as required and the Boards Senior Independent Director would take the chair.
Main activities of the Committee during the year The Committee met three times during the year.
In May 2014, the Board reviewed the Membership mix and skills of the current and prospective Directors and it considered the skills and Chairman pictured right : experience that could be usefully added.
Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman of the Board Independent on appointment The Committee identified that it would be valuable for a Non-Executive Director Luc Vandevelde Senior Independent Director Philip Yea Independent Non-Executive Director to be appointed who had experience of content and media sectors and who had experience Key objective: as a chief executive.
The Committee was also to make sure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and conscious of the need to ensure that the Board experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and to have was not too UK-centric in its composition.
oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance.
Dr Mathias Dpfner was identified as meeting these criteria.
He was invited to meet Responsibilities: with the members of the Committee and following those meetings, the Committee a leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board regarding recommended to the Board that he be invited candidates for appointment as Directors, giving full consideration to succession planning to become a Non-Executive Director.
The Board and the leadership needs of the Group: accepted the recommendation and Dr Dpfner a makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Boards committees: accepted the Boards invitation and became a Director with effect from 1 April 2015. a regularly reviews and makes recommendations in relation to the structure, size and composition of the Board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and The Committee also focused on executive experience, and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors: succession planning.
It discussed this topic with the Chief Executive and the a oversees the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors Group HR Director and in private sessions see page 58 : of the Committee.
a reviews the tenure of each of the Non-Executive Directors: and During the year Nick Read was appointed a is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing any as Chief Financial Officer and joined the Board issues to the attention of the Board.
Two senior executives Stephen Pusey and Marten Pieters announced their retirement from Vodafone during the year.
Johan Wibergh joined Vodafone on 1 May and will succeed Stephen as Vodafones Chief Technology Officer on 29 July 2015.
Sunil Sood, formerly Vodafone India Limiteds Chief Operating Officer, succeeded Marten Pieters as Chief Executive of Vodafone India with effect from 1 April 2015.
Omid Kordestani, a Non-Executive Director, stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2014.
Luc Vandevelde, the Companys Senior Independent Director, informed the Board that he would not stand for re-election at the 2015 annual general meeting.
The Committee considered, and made recommendations to the Board, about various changes to take account of this.
These changes, which the Attendance at scheduled meetings Board approved, were that with effect from Director Attendance the 2015 annual general meeting, Philip Gerard Kleisterlee 3 3 Yea be appointed as Senior Independent Luc Vandevelde 3 3 Director, and Valerie Gooding be appointed Anthony Watson Stepped down from the Board in July 2014 1 1 as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations and Philip Yea 3 3 69 Governance Committee.
