CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Chairman Andrew Dougal I am pleased to present the report In addition to myself as Chairman, The Committee continues ofthe Audit Committee for the year theAudit Committee comprises to consider KPMG to be ended 30September 2015.
I joined Patrick fide Smedt, Pamela Kirby and, independent and effective the Audit Committee on appointment following her appointment to the Board to the Board in March 2015 and, in September 2015, Jane Toogood.
The in their role as auditor.
following the retirement of Giles Kerr qualifications of the Audit Committee Accordingly, the Committee inSeptember, Iwas appointed members are outlined inthe Directors Chairman.
I would like totake this biographies on page36 and 37. has provided the Board opportunity on behalf of the Audit withits recommendation Committee to thank Giles for his Committee meetings tothe shareholders to significant contribution over the Only Audit Committee members period of his chairmanship.
re-appoint KPMG as However, the Chairman, the Group I am a member of the Institute of external auditor for the Finance Director, the Group Financial Chartered Accountants of Scotland and Controller, the Director of Risk and year ending 30September previously served as Group Finance Compliance and the External Audit Director with a FTSE 100 business.
Taking into account Engagement Partner normally attend Inaddition, I chair one other plc audit regulatory requirements, meetings at the invitation of the committee and have chaired three Committee.
Other members of the the Committee has others previously.
I am a member management team are also invited ofthe Council of the Institute of determined that an audit toattend certain meetings to provide Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
training or further insight into specific tender will be concluded This provides the Board with the issues and developments.
During the confidence that theCommittee in duecourse to allow a period, the Audit Committee met on continues to meet the UK Corporate new audit firmto bein three occasions.
A section of one Governance Codes requirement meeting during the year took place place for the year ended inrelation to recent andrelevant without management present.
Since joining Victrex, I have spent time Responsibilities with key members of the finance team The Audit Committee undertakes as well as key management across the itsactivities in line with an annual business.
In addition, I have visited the predetermined programme of manufacturing facilities, spent time business based on its terms of understanding key financial processes reference as approved by the Board.
and controls and reviewed the work The key responsibilities of the programmes and outputs ofinternal Committee are to: audit.
This has allowed me to gain a u review the financial statements good understanding of the Group and halfyearly and annual reports the areas relevant to my role as Audit andannouncements relating Committee Chairman.
My approach tothefinancial performance going forward will be an evolution of oftheCompany: this and will involve holding regular meetings with the Group Finance u monitor the financial Director, Group Financial Controller reportingprocess: and Director of Risk and Compliance, u review and challenge actions in addition to the external auditor, andjudgements of management todiscuss matters relevant to the inrelation to interim and Audit Committee.
annualstatements: Membership u monitor and review the The Committee members have been effectiveness of the internal selected with the aim of providing the auditfunction: wide range of financial and commercial u review the risk management expertise required to fulfil the systems and the effectiveness Committees duties.
ofthose systems: Victrex plc 46 Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements u review the Companys internal and objectivity of our auditor.
KPMG was re-appointed as auditor financial controls that is, the systems Non-audit fees for the year ended atthe 2015 AGM.
KPMG has been our established to identify, assess, 30September 2015 were 68,000 auditor since 1993 22 years, during manage and monitor financial risks 2014: 72,000.
The non-audit which time the audit has not been to and the Companys internal control feesrelated to taxation and pension tender.
The Committee considered management systems: compliance and advisory work.
the length of KPMGs tenure and the Alternative providers were considered results of the detailed questionnaire u review the Committees terms of but not deemed practical in the specific when assessing their continued reference, carrying out an annual circumstances.
No approval was given to effectiveness, independence and performance evaluation exercise any non-audit services not in accordance re-appointment.
The Committee and noting the satisfactory with the APBs Ethical Standards for continues to consider KPMG to be operation of the Committee: Auditors.
When awarding non-audit independent and effective in their u all matters associated with the work to KPMG, the Committee are roleas auditor.
Accordingly, the appointment, terms, remuneration, cognisant of the EU Audit Regulation, Committee has provided the Board independence and objectivity including the cap on non-audit fees of with its recommendation to the andeffectiveness of the external 70% of the audit fee, and the ongoing shareholders to re-appoint KPMG as audit process and to review the consultations on how this will be external auditor for the year ending scope and results of the audit: and implemented into UKregulation.
The Committee Non-audit services inthe current year has considered the requirement of u report to the Board on how the represented 49% 2014: 57% of the the2014 Code to put the external audit Committee has discharged the audit fee.
to tender at least every tenyears and aforementioned responsibilities, the practical considerations of aligning including an assessment of whether Appointment, independence the tender process with the rotation the financial statements are fair, andeffectiveness ofaudit partner.
Other factors balanced and understandable and The Committee considers the considered were the requirements of provide theinformation necessary re-appointment of the external the recent Competition and Markets for shareholders to assess the auditor each year, whilst assessing its Commission CMA Order and the Groupsperformance, business independence on an ongoing basis.
current expectation of how the UK model and strategy.
The external auditor is required to government will implement the EU rotate the audit partner every five Audit Reform Regulation.
Both these Key objectives years.
The final year of the current reforms would require auditor rotation To provide effective governance over partners term is the year ending in respect of the 30 September 2021 the appropriateness of the financial September 2017. year end at the latest.
Taking account reporting of the Company, including, The Audit Committee considers the of all these factors, the Committee but not limited to, the completeness effectiveness of the external audit has determined that an audit tender of related disclosures, the performance process on an annual basis, reporting will be concluded in duecourse to of the external auditor, the internal its findings to the Board as part of allow a new audit firmto be in place audit function and the management of itsrecommendation.
This process for the year ended30 September 2018. the Companys internal control systems iscompleted through adetailed There areno contractual obligations and related compliance operations.
questionnaire which covers both the that restrict the Committees choice external auditor withconsideration of external auditor.
External audit ofthe audit partner, theapproach, Non-audit services communication, independence, To further safeguard the independence objectivity, audit quality, interaction and objectivity of the external auditor, with internal audit and reporting and non-audit services provided by the the participation of management in external auditor, KPMG, were authorised the process.
This iscompleted by in accordance with the non-audit members of the Committee and services policy.
This policy is outlined senior members of the finance team in an appendix to the Committees terms who regularly interact with the of reference, whichare published on our external auditor.
This policy places constraints questionnaire are reported to and on thequantum and type of services discussed by the Committee.
undertaken by our auditor with the aim of protecting the independence Victrex plc 47 Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Financial reporting To aid our review, the Committee u Defined benefit accounting: the The primary role of the Committee considered reports from the Group valuation of the defined benefit inrelation to financial reporting is Finance Director and Group Financial scheme is dependent on a toreview with both management Controller and also reports from the numberof assumptions that andthe external auditor, and report external auditor on the outcomes of areinherently judgemental.
The totheBoard where requested or itshalf-year review and annual audit.
AuditCommittee assesses these required, the appropriateness of AsaCommittee, we support KPMG in judgements based on reports thehalf-year and annual financial displaying the necessary independence received from management and statements concentrating on, and objectivity its role requires.
In the Groups actuarial advisors.
amongst other matters: addition, the Committee reviewed TheCommittee concluded that the thedraft Annual Report and financial assumptions used and the resulting u the quality and acceptability of statements in advance of final sign off.
accounting policies and practices: The Committee discussed with u the clarity of the disclosures Internal control and internal audit management the key sources of andcompliance with financial The Audit Committee also considered estimation and critical accounting reporting standards and relevant the results of internal control reviews judgements outlined in note 20.
The financial and governance andreviewed the effectiveness of significant areas of focus considered : theinternal audit function.
There is a by the Committee in relation to the 2015 rolling programme of internal control u material areas in which significant financial statements and how these have reviews carried out across the Group judgements have been applied been addressed are set out below.
In by the internal audit function, supported orthere has been discussion concluding that these represented the by other independent assurance withthe external auditor: primary areas of judgement, the Audit providers.
The Director of Risk and Committee considered a report by u whether the Annual Report, Compliance, asappointed by the management which referenced both takenas a whole, is fair, balanced Committee, has responsibility for quantitative and qualitative judgement and understandable and provides internal audit and independently factors across each significant account theinformation necessary for reports to the Chairman of the Audit balance, assessing the impact on the shareholders to assess the Companys Committee in relation to internal user of the financial statements.
These performance, business model and control matters.
The Audit Committee are also areas of higher audit risk and, strategy.
The statement incorporating receives these reports from the internal accordingly, KPMG reported to the the conclusion ofthisassessment audit function, reviews its findings, Committee on, and the Audit Committee is included onpage 69: and annual audit plan, effectiveness, discussed, these judgements.
allocation of appropriate resources u any correspondence from u Carrying value of inventory: the and risk management activities and regulators in relation to our Committee reviews the nature of priorities.
The Committee also reviews financial reporting.
the costs absorbed into inventory, the Groups whistleblowing policy.
In addition to the above, the Committee the variances between standard cost supports the Board in completing its and actual cost and the reasons Risk management and internal assessment of the adoption of the formovements in inventory value control procedures going concern basis of preparing the period to period.
The basis for and From 1 October 2014 the Audit financial statements.
This has been level of provisioning, including those Committee has responsibility for extended in the current year to support areas which are judgemental, is reviewing the risk management systems the inclusion, as required under the presented to the Committee by and effectiveness of these systems.
2014 Code, of a statement explaining management.
The Committee The responsibilities and processes how the Directors have assessed the concluded, based on the information inrespect of risk management are prospects of the Company, over what provided and challenged, that the described in detail on page 20 and 21. period they have done so and why valuation of inventory and level of they consider that period appropriate.
This statement is included on page 67.
