Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Board activities Key areas of focus for your Board Board activities are structured to assist the Board in achieving its goal to support and advise executive management on the delivery of the Groups strategy within a transparent governance framework.
Board activities in the 2015 financial year Set out below are the key areas which the Board focused on during the year.
Strategy development The Board: Last year was a year of change for Vodafone a had a strategy day including presentations from executives about developments as we moved ahead in our strategy in the Groups markets and on the Groups strategy, both organic and inorganic, in light to become a total telecoms provider.
of these developments: We acquired the cable companies Ono a received presentations from local management in Spain and Germany on Ono and in Spain and Kabel Deutschland in Germany Kabel Deutschland and our plans in respect of them: and disposed of our interest in Verizon Wireless.
We also began our Project Spring a received a presentation on the acquisition reviews that had been undertaken for programme, investing in the quality the earlier acquisitions of Cable & Wireless Worldwide in the UK and Telstraclear of our networks.
in New Zealand: The 2015 financial year was a year in which a was updated at each Board meeting on the implementation of Project Spring: the Board monitored our execution a considered the Groups portfolio of assets and whether, and how, these should of this strategy.
be developed: a considered the Groups requirements for spectrum as and when opportunities became available: a had a presentation on the Vodafone brand and how it is being developed and managed: and a received a digital strategy presentation.
KDG Project Spring We commenced integration of KDG in April 2014 We have made strong progress on Project Spring, and have made solid progress.
We have started which is designed to accelerate further our network to connect Vodafone base stations to KDG fibre and service differentiation.
We have substantially backhaul, migrated broadband customers from increased European 4G population coverage, passed Vodafones broadband onto KDGs cable infrastructure, many more homes with our own fibre or cable nextand launched our bundled fixed and mobile generation networks, and significantly developed our bundle product.
suite of Enterprise products and services.
More on KDG integration: More on Project Spring: Page 39 Pages 6 and 7 56 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Performance Governance People At the relevant times throughout the year The Board reviewed the Companys people a At each Board meeting there was a report the Board dealt with corporate governance management, including succession planning, from the Chief Executive including matters, including: talent, progress on diversity and the results topics such as updates on the Enterprise of the People Survey.
business and also from the Chief Financial a the appointment of new Directors: Officer including topics such as financial Other reports from the business a the annual budget and three year plan: performance, treasury matters, acquisition The Board also received the following reports reviews and insurance a the Annual Report including disclosures from the business: within the financial statements and the a At each Board meeting the Board received a business development report: external audit process: information on the performance of the a quarterly market share trends: Group with network, customer satisfaction a bond issuance: and quarterly market share metrics being a External Affairs report: a changes to the treasury policy and regularly provided dealing mandate: a EMF report: a During the course of the year the Board a renewal of the Groups insurance a Vodafone Foundation: and met with all the Executive Committee arrangements: members and with each of the chief a teach-in on fixed access technologies.
executives of Vodafone Germany, Vodafone a assessment of risks and internal controls: UK, Vodafone Spain, Vodafone Italy, a reports on compliance and litigation: Vodafone Hungary, Vodafone Greece and Vodafones Enterprise business a reports on health & safety and EMF: to consider performance and future plans a the Board effectiveness review: and of the businesses a reviews of the Board and committees composition and terms of reference.
Boards visit to Delhi, India In February 2015, Analjit Singh, Vodafone Indias Chairman, and Marten Pieters, Vodafone Indias Chief Executive at the time, hosted a visit by the Board to Vodafone India in Delhi.
The Board visited shops and other distribution outlets and heard from Vodafone Indias executive team about Vodafone Indias business and operations.
Two respected speakers, Suhel Seth of Counselage, India and Uday Kotak, executive vice chairman and managing director of Kotak Mahindra Bank, provided commentary on Indias political and economic context.
Evening receptions provided opportunities for the Board to meet with Indian leaders and to hear about the work of the Vodafone India Foundation.
During the visit, the Board held Board, Remuneration Committee and Nominations and Governance Committee meetings and a strategy day.
