CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Leadership continued during the year, held a Board meeting changes to the Companys u Operation of the Board continued at our US headquarters.
In addition capitalstructure: The Boards agenda is determined todedicating time to meet key teams approval of the dividend policy: u against a pre-planned programme in the US, the Board spent time with ofbusiness to ensure that, in addition anumber of key customers.
major contracts and u to the day to day matters requiring its capitalexpenditure: Matters reserved for the Board consideration, all necessary matters anddelegation of authority approval of risk management u are covered and to allow sufficient time There are certain matters that are policy and framework: for debate and challenge, particularly deemed significant enough to be on areas such as strategy.
major investments u reserved for Board decision only.
andacquisitions:and During the financial year, the Board Aclearly documented schedule of considered a wide variety of matters, matters reserved for Board decision treasury and cash u including corporate development isreviewed annually by the Board to managementpolicy.
opportunities, the Groups strategic ensure it continues to be appropriate The Board delegates day to day plan, financial performance of the for the Company.
These matters include: andbusiness management control Company, risk management and setting the Groups strategy tothe executive Directors, who u controls within the Company, strategy andapproval of the Companys inturndelegate as appropriate and performance of the business long-term objectives: toseniormanagement.
units, portfolio review and innovation and Board effectiveness and evaluation.
approval of half-yearly reports, u The Board has committed to holding interim management statements one Board meeting overseas and, and any preliminary announcements of the final results: Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at the Board and Committee meetings convened in the year to 30 September 2015: Attended Not attended Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings Chairman L C Pentz Executive Directors D R Hummel n a n a n a L S Burdett n a n a n a T J Cooper n a n a n a M L Court n a n a n a Non-executive Directors G F B Kerr P J M fide Smedt P J Kirby A J H Dougal J E Toogood Board appointments during the year were as follows: u A J H Dougal appointed on 1 March 2015 u M L Court appointed on 1 April 2015 u J EToogood appointed on 1 September 2015 Although not a member of the Committees, L C Pentz, D R Hummel, L S Burdett and T J Cooper attended anumberofAudit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee meetings as invited attendees, when appropriate.
Victrex plc 40 Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Disclosure Committee The Chief Executives Chairman Larry Pentz, Committee ELT DavidHummel or Louisa Burdett In discharging his responsibilities, The Disclosure Committees the Chief Executive is assisted by responsibilities are to ensure the Executive Leadership Team thatthe Companys obligations to theELT.
The ELT comprises the make timely and accurate disclosure Chief Executive, the Group Finance ofinformation in accordance with Director, the Managing Director any applicable law or regulation ofVPS and the Managing Director aremet in circumstances where of Invibio.
They are supported itisimpractical for the Board, or intheir duties by the Group HR any other Board Committee with Director.
This team is responsible delegated responsibility, to fulfil for making recommendations to those obligations.
In accordance the Board on matters that are with these responsibilities, the reserved for their decision, such Committee may make disclosures on asstrategy, corporate development behalf of the Board.
The Committee and annual budgets.
The ELT will take advice, including from the usually meets on a monthly basis.
Companys broker, external auditor and legal advisors, on the form andcontent of any disclosure underconsideration.
The Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of each Committee meeting will beappointed on an ad hoc basis.
Meetings of the Committee may becalled by any member of the Committee on any period of noticeprovided that notice isgivento all members.
Nominations Committee Report Remuneration CommitteeReport Page 45 Page 49 Audit Committee Report Page 46 The terms of reference oftheNominations, Audit andRemuneration Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com and in paper form on request from the registered office of the Company.
Victrex plc 41 Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Leadership continued Board effectiveness women in overcoming the barriers Board committees Composition, independence theyface in rising to the top of the The Board has delegated certain anddiversity of the Board management structure.
The female responsibilities to Board At the date of this report, the Board representation on the ELT is 25%.
Committeesnamely: comprised a non-executive Chairman, Further information on the total four other non-executive Directors and female representation on our the Nominations Committee: u four executive Directors.
There were a workforce is provided in our the Audit Committee: number of Board appointments during Sustainability Report on page 32. u the year, with two new non-executive the Remuneration Committee: and We also recognise the importance u Directors appointed to the Board, ofdiversity in general at Board level the Disclosure Committee.
AJH Dougal and J E Toogood, u and our Board members comprise inaddition to the appointment of The Board has ultimate responsibility anumber of different nationalities MLCourt as an executive Director.
In for the annual approval of the treasury with a wide range of experience from September, GFB Kerr announced and cash management policy and a variety of business backgrounds.
hisdecision toretire from the Board, continues to be supported in its work Further information on our Group HR following nine years service with the by the Currency Committee.
The policies, including those on equal Company.
The Code requirement Currency Committee is chaired by the opportunities and diversity, is set thatat least half the Board should be Group Finance Director, L S Burdett, outon page 32. independent non-executive Directors and meets on a monthly basis to has continued to be met throughout In response to the Davies Report, manage the application of the Groups the year.
The non-executive Directors theBoard published a statement treasury policy.
Further details on the including theChairman, L C Pentz, onBoard diversity, which has been policy and the activities of the Currency upon his appointment are all published on the investor section Committee are included in note 14 considered bytheBoard to be ofour website.
independent ofmanagement and Re-election of Directors The Nominations, Audit and freefrom any business or other All Directors retire at each Annual Remuneration Committee reports relationship that could materially General Meeting AGM and may aredescribed on pages 45 to 50 and interfere with theexercise oftheir offer themselves for re-election by the Disclosure Committee on page 41. independent judgement.
Accordingly, all the These Committees operate under The composition of the Board is Directors will retire at the AGM in clearly defined terms of reference intended to ensure that its membership February 2016 and the Notice of andreport to the Board at each Board represents a mix of backgrounds, skills AGMon page 98 gives details of those meeting via the Committee Chairmen.
and experience that will enhance the Directors seeking re-election.
Further The terms of reference are reviewed quality of its deliberations and decisions.
information on both the appointment at least annually, with any revisions Diversity in Board composition is an and replacement of Directors is given proposed by the respective Committees important driver of Board effectiveness.
in the Directors Report on page 66. and then approved by the Board.
The In looking for prospective Directors, Board has provided its Committees with Conflicts of interest there is regard to the skills and sufficient resources to undertake their Under the Companies Act 2006, a experience of the Board at that time duties, including access to the services director must avoid a situation where and the need to address longer term of the Company Secretary and external a direct or indirect conflict of interest succession and business priorities.
may occur and procedures are in place annual formal evaluation of the Board to deal with any situation where a takes Board diversity into account and conflict may be perceived.
The Board is instrumental in identifying any new confirms that it has considered and skill requirements, as well as possible authorised any conflicts or potential shortcomings, gaps or inefficiencies.
conflicts of interest in accordance Our current female representation with these procedures.
The Board onthe Board is 33% and, therefore, hasspecifically considered the other exceeds the minimum target appointments held by Directors, representation level to be achieved details of which are contained in their by2015 as recommended by the biographies on page 36 to 37, and has Davies Review.
The Board recognises confirmed that each is able to devote the importance of gender diversity sufficient time to fulfil the duties atthe level below the Board and is required of them under the terms committed to ensuring an appropriate oftheir contracts or letters level of gender diversity, in particular ofappointment.
There is a commitment in the Company to support Victrex plc 42 Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Board evaluation During the year, pursuant to the and information is provided for The Board recognises that a Code, the Chairman met with the theBoards duties to be discharged rigorousperformance evaluation other non-executive Directors without effectively.
The CEO also updates isimportant to optimise Board the executive Directors present, theBoard on progress against the effectiveness.
A formal evaluation andthe SID met with the other Groups strategic plan.
Briefings by ofthe Board, Board Committees non-executive Directors, without operational management also take andindividual Directors performance theChairman present.
place regularly to enhance the Boards is carried out annually.
In the current understanding of the business.
Future reviews year, an externally facilitated Board The 2016 Board evaluation will be Directors can also take independent evaluation was conducted.
The Board intends professional advice where necessary the appointment process, theBoard to undertake an externally facilitated at the Companys expense and have appointed Stone Court Consulting to evaluation process at least every three access to the services of the Company facilitate the external Board evaluation.
years, in line with the Code.
The Company Secretary The assessment ofthe effectiveness intervening years, the review will be isresponsible for ensuring that Board of the Board was conducted according facilitated by the Chairman, supported procedures are followed and for to the guidance in the UK Corporate by the SID andCompany Secretary.
providing advice to the Board on Governance Code and was facilitated corporate governance.
Both the by Margaret Exley of Stone Court Induction and training appointment and removal of the Consulting.
Neither Margaret Exley All new non-executive Directors Company Secretary are matters nor Stone Court Consulting have any receive a personalised induction forthe Board as a whole.
other connection with the Company.
programme, tailored to their experience, The review comprised a number background and particular area of Appropriate levels of insurance ofstages asfollows: focus.
The programme has evolved coverare obtained for all Directors over time to take into account feedback and Officers of the Company.
Further briefing with the Chairman u from Directors.
It includes a wide range information on Directors indemnities andBoard observation: of meetings with other Directors and is given in the Directors Report on completion of a detailed senior management, attending results page 67. u questionnaire, designed by and broker briefings and opportunities StoneCourt Consulting: to visit the Groups operations outside Accountability of the UK.
New executive Directors also Financial and business reporting one-to-one interviews with u receive an induction focused on their The Board is responsible for eachBoard member and the new role and wider responsibilities presenting a fair, balanced and Company Secretary: which includes briefings on areas such understandable assessment of the consideration, evaluation and asDirectors duties and corporate Groups position and prospects.
u compilation of the results and initial governance guidelines and best practice.
Reporting is at a divisional level with feedback to the Chairman: and A J H Dougal, J E Toogood and M L Court the head of each division reporting received an appropriately tailored tothe Board through a standardised presentation to the Board in u induction uponjoining the Board.
The Group has September 2015 by Margaret Exley, Induction programmes cover matters acomprehensive annual budgeting Board discussion on results and such as Group structure and strategy, process and the annual budget is agreement on an action plan, which industry and competitive environment, approved by the Board.
Reforecasts has been recorded in the minutes Group risk profile and our approach to are presented to the Board six times of that meeting.
risk andsafety, health and environmental during the year.
The assessment highlighted the matters.
Training including social, The statement that gives the reasons strength of the Board in terms of environmental and ethical matters is why the Directors continue to adopt skills, diversity of experience and also provided.
The Board evaluation the going concern basis for preparing thepositive working dynamic of the process also considers specific training the financial statements is given in Board as a whole.
In the current theDirectors Report on page 67.
In made focused on strengthening the year, Directors training included recent accordance with provision C. 2.2 of Boards progress in the areas of talent updates to corporate governance best theCode, the Directors have assessed management and strategic planning practice and whistleblowing policy.
the prospect of the Company over a and implementation.
Information and support longer period than the twelve months Executive Directors performance The Company has robust processes required by the Going Concern isreviewed by the Remuneration inplace to ensure the Board receives provision.
This assessment is outlined Committee in conjunction with the sufficient management information in our Viability Statement on pages Chief Executive, except in the case and reports on strategic and operational 67to 68. ofhis own performance review.
The matters on a timely basis.
These Chairmans performance is reviewed processes ensure that sufficient time by the Board, without the Chairman present.
This was led by the SID in thecurrent year.
Victrex plc 43 Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Accountability continued The independent Risk and Compliance Relations with shareholders Risk management and internal function supports the Board in its The Board as a whole has a control procedures review of the effectiveness of the responsibility for ensuring that The Board, supported by the system of internal control.
There satisfactory engagement with AuditCommittee and ELT Risk isarolling programme of business shareholders takes place, based Management Committee, is responsible assurance review carried out across onthe mutual understanding of for determining the nature and extent the Group, co-ordinated by the objectives.
The Board achieves this of the principal risks it is willing to take Director of Risk and Compliance, who through effective dialogue with in achieving its strategic objectives.
It is independently reports to the Chairman shareholders and analysts, with the ultimately responsible for maintaining of the Audit Committee in relation Chief Executive, Group Finance sound risk management systems tobusiness assurance matters.
The Director and Head of Investor including financial controls, controls Audit Committee reviews the annual Relations leading these relationships.
in respect of the financial reporting business assurance plan, its findings, The Board believes that appropriate process and controls of an operational effectiveness, allocation of appropriate steps have been taken during the year and compliance nature.
A sound resources and risk management to ensure that all members of the Board system of internal control is designed activities and priorities.
and, in particular the non-executive to manage rather than eliminate the risk In addition to the controls Directors, develop an understanding of of failure to achieve business objectives describedabove, there are further the views of major shareholders.
Such and can only provide reasonable and steps to provide assurance over the steps include, for example, analyst and not absolute assurance against material completeness and accuracy of our broker briefings, a standing Board misstatement or loss.
In addition, the reporting process, which include agenda item covering investor relations Board is responsible for establishing review and recommendation by matters, consideration by the Board of formal and transparent arrangements theAudit Committee and review monthly brokers reports and feedback for considering how it should apply the andapproval by the Board.
from shareholder meetings on a corporate reporting, risk management six-monthly basis.
The canvassing and internal control principles and for The Audit Committee oversees ofmajor shareholders views for the maintaining an appropriate relationship whistleblowing arrangements, by Board in a detailed investor survey with the Companys auditor.
The Board which staff may, in confidence, raise isconducted twice a year by our annually undertakes a formal review concerns about possible improprieties brokers, J P Morgan.
In addition, of the effectiveness of the risk in matters of financial reporting or other theChairman isavailable to meet management framework and policies.
The Company continues to institutional shareholders.
The Senior Twice a year, the Board reviews the operate its Global Code of Conduct Independent Director and other principal risks, thereby allowing it policy and has embedded this non-executive Directors will attend theopportunity to review the level throughout the Group.
This policy meetings with major shareholders, ofrisk the Board is prepared to accept includes important areas such as ifrequested.
No such meetings in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
anti-bribery, data protection and wererequested during the year.
Thisprocess will continue in 2016. conflicts of interest.
It is an important policy to maintain our reputation as a Institutional investor relations activity TheBoard confirms that it has business that can be trusted by all is normally concentrated in the periods carriedout a robust assessment of stakeholder groups.
following the announcement of the theprincipal risks and confirms that interim and final results.
Additional they remain within its risk appetite The Board and Audit Committee presentations and site visits are and that there is a framework of havereviewed the effectiveness of arranged when there is a sufficient continual and ongoing processes theinternal control system, including demand to make them cost effective.
inplace for identifying, evaluating, financial, operational and compliance In April 2015, the Company held a monitoring and managing the principal controls, and risk management in Capital Markets Day at our Hillhouse risks faced by the Company.
These accordance with the Code.
It should headquarters, with over 70 investors processes were reviewed during the be noted that there have been no and analysts attending.
A copy of the year by the ELT Risk Management significant failings or weaknesses.
Capital Markets Day presentation is Committee, with the Audit Committee Weconfirm that the Group has available on our website.
taking responsibility for reviewing complied with the Code provisions on therisk management systems and internal control by operating throughout All shareholders will have the theeffectiveness of these systems.
the year ended 30 September 2015 opportunity to ask questions at the and up to the date of approval of forthcoming AGM.
The Chairs of the The Boards view of the key strategic thisAnnual Report appropriate Audit, Nominations and Remuneration and operational risks and how we procedures in accordance with the Committees will be available to answer seek to manage those risks is set FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, questions at that meeting.
Internal Control and Related Financial the AGM is conducted by way of a and Business Reporting, published show of hands in order to encourage inSeptember 2014. questions from and interaction with private investors.
Proxy votes lodged Further details of the risk management on each AGM resolution are announced framework operating at Victrex are at the meeting, published on the given on pages 20 to 21.
Companys website and announced via the Regulatory Information Service.
