Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate governance framework Victrex plc Board Chief Executives Disclosure Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee ELT VPS Invibio Internal Audit External Audit Business Unit Business Unit The Company has not complied stakeholders, which includes our concerns, where contact through u infull with part of provision C. 3.7, employees, suppliers, customers thenormal channels is inappropriate.
which states that FTSE 350 andwider community.
She is also responsible for leading the companies should put the external review of the Chairmans performance, The offices of the Chairman and audit contract out to tender at least as part of the annual Board evaluation.
theChief Executive Officer CEO every ten years.
As noted on page are separate and clearly distinct.
The Company Secretary reports to 47, KPMG has been our auditor Thedivision of their responsibilities theChairman on governance matters since the MBO in 1993.
Consistent isset out in writing and has been and is responsible for keeping the with good governance principles, approved by the Board.
The role and Board upto date on all legislative, we review independence and responsibilities of the SID are also set regulatory and governance matters.
objectivity annually as part of our out in writing and approved by the She is alsoresponsible for supporting annual review of the effectiveness Board.
The CEO is responsible for theChairman and other Board members of the external audit process.
theday to day running of the Group, as necessary, including the management TheCompany intends to put carrying out agreed strategy and of Board and Committee meetings and ourexternal audit contract out implementing specific Board decisions.
their evaluation, advising on Directors totender during 2017 and seek duties and facilitating appropriate, high shareholder approval for the The Chairman is responsible for the quality and timely information flows proposed new audit firm at leadership of the Board and ensuring between the business and the Board.
its effectiveness in all aspects of its The Company Secretary role is now role.
The Chairman is also responsible separate from the Legal Function, Leadership for creating the right board dynamic although both report to the Group The role of the Board and for promoting a culture of openness Finance Director.
The role of the Board is to provide and debate, in addition to ensuring entrepreneurial leadership and the constructive and productive relations Operation of the Board Directors are collectively responsible between executive and non-executive The Board is responsible for the Groups for the long-term success of the Directors.
The Chairman is also an strategic development, monitoring Company.
The Board also acts as ambassador for the Company to achievement of its business objectives, custodian of the Companys values and shareholders and wider stakeholders.
maintaining a system of effective of its long-term vision and provides corporate governance, which includes The executive Directors are responsible strategic direction and guidance for the responsibility for health, safety, for the running of the business.
The names, biographical environmental, social and ethical non-executive Directors are responsible details and significant time commitments matters.
It also monitors the Companys for exercising independent and of the members of the Board are set risk management and internal control objective judgement in respect of out on pages 36 and 37. systems and, at least annually, carries Board decisions, developing corporate out a review of their effectiveness, In discharging its responsibilities, the strategy with senior management and has reported on this in the report Board also seeks to set, promote and andfor scrutinising and constructively on page 44. demonstrate adherence to our values challenging the actions of and ethical standards for the Company.
The Board discharges these It remains mindful of the need to observe responsibilities through scheduled Our Senior Independent Director SID, the duties owed by Directors in law, meetings, which include regular Pamela Kirby, acts as a sounding including promoting the sustainable reviews of financial performance board to the Chairman and serves as success of the Company, not only for andcritical business issues and an intermediary for other Directors our shareholders, but also for our benchmarking performance against when necessary.
She is also available our strategic plan and objectives.
to shareholders should they have any Victrex plc 39 Annual Report 2015
