WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board met nine times during the year.
It is expected that all INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN directors attend Board meetings, Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting AGM unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The minimum time commitment expected from the non-executive directors is one day per month attendance at meetings, together with attendance at the AGM, Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following the meeting the Chairman briefs any director not present on the discussions and any decisions taken at the meeting.
The following table shows the number of Board meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2015 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Number of meetings Board membership attended Chairman: Henry Staunton Henry Staunton 9 of 9 Suzanne Baxter 9 of 9 Stephen Clarke 9 of 9 The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance.
As Chairman, my role is to Annemarie Durbin 9 of 9 run the Board to ensure that the Company operates effectively Drummond Hall 9 of 9 and ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills and Robert Moorhead 9 of 9 experience to assess, manage and mitigate risks.
This report, which forms part of the Directors report, provides The Board has met twice since 31 August 2015 and all the directors details of how the Company has applied the principles of, attended both meetings.
and complied with, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule the Code.
A copy of the Code is available publicly from of matters reserved for its decision with its key focus being on www.
creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
The significant The information that is required by Disclosure and Transparency matters reserved for its decision include: the overall management Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys Corporate of the Company: approval of the business model and strategic governance statement is included in this Corporate governance plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the report, in the Directors remuneration report on pages 35 to 52 Companys commercial strategy and operating and capital andin the Directors report on pages 53 to 55. expenditure budgets: approval of the Annual report and financial statements, material agreements and non-recurring projects: BOARD OF DIRECTORS treasury and dividend policy: control, audit and risk management: As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, executive remuneration: and corporate social responsibility.
two executive directors and three independent non-executive The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system directors.
Short biographies of each of these directors, which of risk management and internal control including financial illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 34.
There is controls, controls in respect of the financial reporting process and a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company: Henry operational and compliance controls and has conducted a review Staunton Chairman being responsible for running the Board of its effectiveness during the year, to ensure that management and Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive being responsible for has implemented its policies on risk and control.
The Board has implementing strategy.
Drummond Hall is the Senior Independent established an organisational structure with clearly dened Director.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or group lines of responsibility and approval controls identifying matters dominates the decision-making process.
requiring approval by the Board.
Steps continue to be taken to All the directors whose biographies are on page 34 served embed internal control and risk management further into the throughout the period.
The Chairman was appointed as the operations of the business and to deal with areas that require Chairman of Phoenix Group Holdings on 1 September 2015. improvement which come to the attention of management and the In advance of this, the Board reviewed the Chairmans existing Board.
Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather than commitments and the time commitment required for the new role, eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and and had no objection to the Chairman taking up the appointment.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
All of the non-executive directors who served during the year and up to the date of this report are considered by the Board to be independent.
indd 26 26 11 2015 15:09 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for The Chairman also undertook a rigorous review with each of identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the the non-executive directors to assess their effectiveness and Company, including those risks relating to social, environmental commitment to the role.
During the year, the Chairman had and ethical matters.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing regular meetings with the non-executive directors, without the the Group can be found in the Strategic report on pages 20 and executive directors present, to discuss Board issues and how to 21.
This process was in place throughout the year under review maintain the best possible team.
The Board is satisfied that each and up to the date of approval of the Annual report and meets the of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the requirements of the guidance entitled Internal Control Revised business of the Company and contributes to its governance and Guidance for Directors produced by the Financial Reporting operations.
The Senior Independent Director met the other nonCouncil the Turnbull Guidance.
executive directors to assess the Chairmans performance and they concluded that Henry Staunton continues to be an effective Further information on internal controls and risk management Chairman and demonstrates his commitment to the role.
canbe found in the Audit Committee report on pages 28 to 31.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, directors are All directors have access to the advice and services of the required to retire and submit themselves for re-election Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice every three years and new directors appointed by the Board at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
offer themselves for election at the next AGM following their The Board receives appropriate and timely information, with Board appointment.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board and Committee papers normally being sent out a week before has agreed that all directors will stand for re-election at the AGM meetings take place.
New directors receive induction training on to be held on 27 January 2016.
Biographies of all the directors are joining the Board which is tailored to meet their needs to learn set out on page 34 of this Annual report and are also available for about the business, its markets and risks and includes store viewing on the Companys website, www.
visits and meetings with employees across the businesses and with external advisers.
The need for director training is regularly The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the Board to assessed by the Board.
appoint directors and, where notice is given and signed by all the other directors, to remove a director from ofce.
The Companys The performance of the Board and its Committees is a Articles of Association themselves may be amended by special fundamental component of the Companys success.
The Board resolution of the shareholders.
It is proposed to adopt new Articles regularly reviews its own performance and carried out a formal of Association at the AGM to be held on 27 January 2016.
Details of evaluation in August 2015.
The evaluation was co-ordinated the proposed amendments can be found in the Notice of Annual and directed by the Chairman with the support of the Company General Meeting which accompanies this report.
A questionnaire was prepared by the Chairman and the Company Secretary and formed the basis of in-depth The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the interviews with each director.
The scope of the evaluation was share capital of the Company, along with details of directors share broad and included Board effectiveness, Board structure and awards, are contained in the Remuneration report on pages 35 diversity, decision-making processes, corporate strategy and to52.
business model, risk, succession planning, investor relations At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material andBoard Committees.
interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of The findings were presented to the Board in October 2015. its subsidiaries.
The results of the assessment were considered by the Board, The Board delegates specic responsibilities to the Board and confirmed the strength of the management of the Company, Committees, being the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration a sound governance framework and practices compliant with the Committees.
Details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit Code.
As a result of the review, the Board agreed an action plan Committee can be found on pages 28 to 31, of the Nominations which will be implemented in the financial year ending 31 August Committee on page 32 and of the Remuneration Committee on 2016 and which includes continuing to build relationships between pages 35 to 52.
The role and responsibilities of each Committee members of the Board and senior management, to further improve are set out in formal terms of reference which are available on the the quality of papers submitted to the Board to ensure the papers Companys website, www.
provide high quality data in a timely and concise manner and being given greater access to other members of the senior management team.
In addition to the Board and Committee evaluation process, the Group Chief Executive reviews the performance of the Chief Financial officer and Chief Operating officer CFO COO and other senior executives.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Group Chief Executive.
indd 27 26 11 2015 15:09 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee met four times during the year.
All Committee BOARD COMMITTEES members are expected to attend meetings.
The following table AUDIT COMMITTEE shows the number of meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2015 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Number of meetings Committee membership attended Suzanne Baxter 4 of 4 Annemarie Durbin 4 of 4 Drummond Hall 4 of 4 Henry Staunton, Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead were invited to and attended four meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has met once since 31 August 2015 and all the Committee members attended the meeting.
A summary of the activities undertaken by the Committee during the year is as follows: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, Chair: Suzanne Baxter internal control policies and procedures for the identication, assessment and reporting of risk, including cyber security, tax and in respect of the Companys international businesses: monitoring the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Trading Statements: Dear Shareholder considering papers from management on the key financial As Chair of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present my report reporting judgements, including the Companys approach to on the activities of the Audit Committee for the financial year recognising supplier incomes: ended 31 August 2015.
Our principal objectives are to oversee and assist the Board in its responsibility to produce a set of Annual reviewing the Interim report and the Annual report and accounts report and accounts which are fair, balanced and understandable including compliance with the Code and statutory reporting and to provide effective financial governance in respect of the requirements and recommending those documents for Groups financial results, the performance of both the internal Board approval: audit function and the external Auditor, and the management of discussing the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related reporting requirements: compliance activities.
On 1 October 2014, changes were made to the Code in relation to the identication and management of considering the Companys principal risks and uncertainties principal risks of the Company, within an agreed risk appetite, and reviewing the mitigating actions that management has and provision of a longer term viability statement of the Company.
taken to ensure that these risks are appropriately monitored These changes to the Code are applicable to the financial year and controlled: ending 31 August 2016 and the Committee is now applying those monitoring the role and effectiveness of Internal Audit: changes as required by the Code and will provide the necessary disclosure in this report next year.
receiving reports and presentations from the business risk committees: The other members of the Committee are Annemarie Durbin and Drummond Hall who are both independent non-executive receiving and reviewing reports from the Internal Audit and directors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant Risk teams: financial experience, as required by the Code.
At the invitation holding private meetings with the external and internal Auditors: of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the CFO COO, the Director of Audit and Risk and following the audit tender process carried out in 2014, representatives of the Groups senior management team and of overseeing the transition from Deloitte LLP Deloitte the external Auditor attend meetings.
The Committee has regular to  LLP PwC as the private meetings with the external and internal Auditors during Companys Auditors: the year.
agreeing the scope of PwCs annual audit plans, assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process and considering the accounting, financial control and audit issues reported by the Auditors that owed from their work: 28 Governance v33.
indd 28 26 11 2015 15:09 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 reviewing Auditor independence and the policy on the Taxation engagement of PwC to supply non-audit services: The Committee considered the judgements made by management and a paper from the external Auditor in respect of provisions agreeing the Audit fee: made for historical taxation liabilities, including the nature, undertaking a performance review of Internal Audit and the estimation uncertainties and age of the taxation liabilities of Companys outgoing external Auditor, Deloitte: and the Group.
considering the CSR report prepared by Corporate Citizenship.
Property The Committee considered the nature of property transactions SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL REPORTING ISSUES undertaken by the Company in the year and reviewed the In preparing the accounts there are a number of areas Companys obligations and provisions for the cost of onerous requiring the exercise by management of particular judgement.
property leases including lease obligations in respect of The Committees role is to assess whether the judgments made discontinued operations.
by management are reasonable and appropriate.
In order to assist Each of the above areas of judgement has been identied as an in this evaluation, the CFO COO presents an accounting paper to area of focus and therefore the Committee has also reviewed the Committee twice a year, setting out the key financial reporting detailed reporting from the external Auditor, PwC, on the judgements, and other papers as required.
The main areas of relevant issues.
judgement that have been considered by the Committee in the preparation of the financial statements are as follows: FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT Accounting for inventory As required by the Code, the directors confirm that they The Committee considered the judgements made by management consider the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, to and a paper from the external Auditor regarding the valuation be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the of inventory, with specic consideration given to inventory information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys provisioning including provision for slow moving or obsolete performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that the process adopted by this position the Board was assisted by a number of processes management for the valuation of inventory is sufciently robust including the following: to establish the value of inventory held and is satisfied as to the the Annual report and accounts is drafted by senior management appropriateness of the Companys provisioning policy.
with overall co-ordination by a member of the Group Finance Recognition of supplier income team to ensure consistency across the relevant sections: Supplier Income recognition remains a focus for the Committee.
an internal verication process is undertaken to ensure The Committee considered and reviewed in detail, managements factual accuracy: paper which set out the nature and value of these arrangements and the policy for recognition in the financial statements.
an independent review is undertaken by the Director of Audit The Committee is satisfied with managements conclusion that the and Risk to assess whether the Annual report and accounts is level of complexity and judgement is low in relation to establishing fair, balanced and understandable using a set of pre-dened the accounting entries and estimates, and the timing of recognition.
indicators such as consistency with internally reported The Committee also considered the increased disclosure included information and investor communications : by management in the Annual report and accounts.
comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual report and Pensions accounts are undertaken by the executive directors and other senior management: The Committee assessed the accounting treatment adopted by management and the application of IAS 19 revised in relation to an advanced draft is reviewed by the Board and the Companys the WH Smith dened benefit pension scheme.
The Committee, Legal Director and, in relation to certain sections, by external having also received a paper on pensions from the external legal advisers: and Auditor, and considered the current guidance and requirements the final draft of the Annual report and accounts was reviewed in respect of pensions accounting, reviewed the judgements by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
made in respect of the assumptions used in the valuation of the The Committee advised the Board that the Annual report and Companys obligations under the scheme and the recognition of accounts taken as a whole was considered to be fair, balanced future liabilities in respect of committed scheme contributions on and understandable and that it provided the information the balance sheet.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
indd 29 26 11 2015 15:09 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning and RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS for monitoring and reporting the performance of the Companys The Committee monitors and regularly reviews the effectiveness of business to the Board.
Monthly results are reported against the Groups risk management processes and internal financial and budget and prior year, and forecasts for the current financial non-financial controls.
The key features of the risk management year are regularly revised in light of actual performance.
process that were in place during the year are as follows: These results and forecasts cover profits, cash ows, capital each business conducts risk assessments based on identied expenditure and balance sheets: business objectives which are reviewed and agreed annually routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and by the executive management of each business.
Risks are risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports are considered in respect of strategy, reputation, operations, prepared for the Board and Committee covering tax, treasury financial and compliance and are evaluated in respect of their policies, insurance and pensions: potential impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments are updated and reviewed quarterly and are reported to a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the Board, the Committee: including objectives and targets to address the impact that our activities have on the environment, workplace, marketplace and a Group risk assessment is also undertaken by the Internal community.
More detailed information is available in our full CR Audit team, which considers all areas of potential risk across report, available at www.
co. uk cr: and all systems, functions and key business processes.
This risk assessment, together with the business risk assessments, the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of health forms the basis for determining the Internal Audit Plan.
and safety in all its business activities.
These standards are set Audit reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy which is regularly agreed with the Committee: reviewed by the Board.
A copy of our Health and Safety policy is available at www.
The Risk Management the Internal Audit team meets annually with senior executives team works with the business to assess health and safety who are required to complete a formal certication of the risks and introduce systems to mitigate them.
All reportable effectiveness of the internal controls in their respective areas.
accidents are investigated and targets are set to reduce the level These certicates are provided by the risk committees to the of incidence.
Committee, to assist the Board in conducting its annual review of internal controls in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Director of Audit and Risk attends the meetings of the As part of its annual review the Board discusses and agrees the Committee to discuss the above matters.
principal risks that are included within the Annual report: EXTERNAL AUDITOR the Board is responsible for approving the annual budget and the As previously reported, the Company conducted a tender of the three-year plan, for approving major acquisitions and disposals external audit contract in 2014.
The tender process was initiated and for determining the financial structure of the Company, in April 2014 and concluded in July 2014.
The Audit Committee including treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly results, recommended the appointment of PwC as Statutory Auditor.
variances from plan and forecasts are reported to the Board: The Board accepted this recommendation and PwC were formally the Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its appointed at the 2015 AGM.
duties regarding the Groups financial statements, accounting The tender was led by me as Chair of the Audit Committee and policies and the maintenance of proper internal business, transacted in conjunction with the CFO COO and the Group Finance operational and financial controls.
The Committee provides a team: and overseen by the Committee.
The audit tender team held direct link between the Board and the external Auditor through discussions with five audit rms, excluding the incumbent Auditors regular meetings: Deloitte, as part of the tender process.
Deloitte, as a matter of their the Internal Audit team advises and assists business internal policy and in light of developing EU legislation on audit rm management in the establishment and maintenance of rotation, elected not to participate in the tender in view of their long adequate internal controls and reports to the Committee on the historic relationship as external Auditor to the Company.
effectiveness of those controls: 30 Governance v33.
indd 30 26 11 2015 15:09 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 The Company received formal tenders from three candidate rms.
The Committee has a formal policy on the Companys relationship The audit tender team developed a scoring matrix for each tender with its Auditor in respect of non-audit work to ensure that to assess the quality of each candidate rm and the deliverability auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
The policy of its proposals, with a clear emphasis being placed on the quality is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The majority of nonand experience of the proposed audit team and partner, the extent audit work undertaken by Deloitte in 2014 15 related to turnover of rm-wide retail experience and a clear and practical knowledge certicates, required by the Companys landlords, and tax advice.
of listed company audits, governance and reporting environments.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken by PwC in 2014 15 After deliberation, the Committee recommended to the Board related to pensions and tax advice.
The Auditor may only provide that PwC should be appointed as the Companys Statutory Auditor such services if such advice does not conict with their statutory following completion of the 2014 year-end process.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, my approval is required before the Company uses PwC shadowed Deloitte, the previous Statutory Auditor, during non-audit services that exceed 25,000 per matter.
For the the 2014 year-end audit process, enabling them to build a good financial year ended 31 August 2015 the non-audit fees paid to PwC knowledge and understanding of the business.
Since their were 67,200 and the audit fees payable to PwC were 314,200. appointment, PwC have undergone a thorough induction programme to further enhance their understanding of the I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any business.
This has included meetings with management and questions about the work of the Committee.
staff and site visits including stores and distribution centres Suzanne Baxter across the Group.
Throughout the year the Audit Committee has Chair of the Audit Committee overseen and helped to facilitate a smooth transition from Deloitte toPwC.
The Committee has recommended to the Board the 15 October 2015 re-appointment of the external Auditor for the 2016 financial year and the directors will be proposing the re-appointment of PwC at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee will continue to review the external Auditors appointment and the need to tender the audit, ensuring the Groups continued compliance with the Code.
Auditor independence During the year the external Auditor reported to the Committee on their independence from the Company.
The Committee and the Board are satisfied that PwC has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
The Committee and the Board were also satisfied that Deloitte, the Companys previous Auditor, had adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that their objectivity andindependence were maintained.
In line with our terms of reference, the Committee undertook a thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and independence of the 2014 year-end audit provided by Deloitte, the Companys previous Auditor.
The Director of Audit and Risk prepared a questionnaire seeking the views and feedback of the Board, together with those of Group and divisional management and it formed the basis of further discussion with respondents.
The findings of the survey were considered by the Committee.
As this is PwCs first year with the Company, the Committee was only able to assess their work up until the end of the financial period and not the year-end audit itself.
The Committee will undertake a thorough assessment of the effectiveness and independence of PwC following the 2015 year-end audit.
indd 31 26 11 2015 15:09 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED All Committee members are expected to attend meetings.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The following table shows the number of meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2015 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Number of meetings Committee membership attended Henry Staunton 2 of 2 Suzanne Baxter 2 of 2 Stephen Clarke 2 of 2 Annemarie Durbin 2 of 2 Drummond Hall 2 of 2 Robert Moorhead was invited to and attended one meeting of the Nominations Committee.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Companys succession plans and the ongoing structure and capability ofthe Board.
Chair: Henry Staunton The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments relevant to the Company, including on the subject of diversity.
Information on diversity, including gender, in respect of the Board and the Company is set out in the Employees and Diversity section NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT of the Strategic report on page 25.
The Board believes in creating Dear Shareholder throughout the Company a culture free from discrimination in As Chair of the Nominations Committee I am pleased to present any form and is proud of its long history of being regarded as a my report on the activities of the Nominations Committee for the responsible and respected employer.
The Board is committed financial year ended 31 August 2015.
The Committees principal to strengthening the pipeline of women in senior roles across responsibility is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals the business and continues to take steps to ensure there are no with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that barriers to women succeeding at the highest level of the Company.
it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and ensure that An action plan has been agreed to take further steps to improve appropriate procedures are in place for the nomination, selection workplace diversity.
Actions include the appointment of a Diversity and succession of directors and senior executives.
and Inclusion sponsor to champion diversity within the Senior Management team, and the provision of mentoring, as well as The Committee comprises a majority of independent non-executive focused initiatives to better understand the challenges faced by directors.
The other members of the Committee are Suzanne under-represented groups employed within the Company.
Baxter, Stephen Clarke, Annemarie Durbin and Drummond Hall.
In the event of any matters arising concerning my membership of I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any the Board, I would absent myself from the meeting as required by questions about the work of the Committee.
the Code and Drummond Hall, the Senior Independent Director, Henry Staunton would take the Chair.
Chair of the Nominations Committee The Committee met twice during the year.
The principal matters 15 October 2015 discussed at the meetings were succession planning for Board and senior executives, the results of the employee satisfaction survey and the stability of the workforce.
indd 32 26 11 2015 15:09 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Information on the composition and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 35 to 52.
ANTICORRUPTION The Company has continued to enhance its policies and procedures in order to meet the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010.
These policies and procedures include training for individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be construed as contravening the Act.
The Groups Bribery Ethics Statement is included on the Companys website, www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Throughout the year ended 31 August 2015 the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code.
The Board acknowledges the changes to the Code that were announced in September 2014 and apply to the Companys financial year ending 31 August 2016.
These changes will be an area of focus for the Board and the relevant committees over the next year and the Company will report on compliance against the revised Code in the 2016 Annual report.
This report was approved by the Board on 15 October 2015.
Signed on behalf of the Board Henry Staunton Chairman 15 October 2015 33 Governance v33.
