Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Audit Committee report Role of the Audit Committee The principal role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review the integrity of the Companys financial results, to review the Companys internal controls and risk management systems, to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditor.
Key responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Simon Melliss review the halfyear and fullyear results and financial statements: Chairman, Audit Committee report to the Board on the appropriateness of our accounting policies and practices including critical accounting policies and practices: Members of the oversee the relationship with the external auditor and review the external audit plans Audit Committee and report: Simon Melliss Chairman review and evaluate the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management system: Wendy Becker review the internal audit process: Susan Taylor Martin review the Groups contingent liabilities: and Simon Barratt Secretary review the speaking out facility and consider any matters raised.
The full terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Committee meetings The Committee meets at least four times a year and will hold additional meetings as and when required.
Meetings are attended by the members of the Committee and, by invitation, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the newly appointed Director of Internal Audit and other relevant people from the business when appropriate.
The external auditor and PwC who have acted as operational auditors are also invited to meetings.
Main activities during the year During the year, the Committee focused on the following matters: Financial reporting the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where there has been discussion with the external auditor: whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Business Model and strategy: the regulatory announcement of the results: and a going concern assessment.
To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the Group Financial Controller, the Tax Director, PwC, the Director of Internal Audit and also reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their halfyear review and annual audit.
The Committee looks for constructive challenge from Ernst & Young as external auditor.
The key areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2014 15 accounts were: Taxation The method of calculating the Groups tax expense and liability and the provisioning for potential tax liabilities were considered.
The Committee reviewed the judgements exercised on tax provisioning as part of its annual review of key provisions.
Whitbread Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 report 57 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Audit Committee report continued Pension scheme Judgement is taken around the assumptions used to calculate the pension scheme assets and liabilities under IAS 19 R. The Committee considered the consistency and basis of the calculation and the assumptions used with those used in 2013 14 and agreed with the judgements reached by management.
Liability provisioning The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities, for example leases, is an issue where management views and legal advice are important.
These are addressed through the Committee discussing with management and challenging the key judgements made.
Asset impairment The judgements in relation to asset impairment largely relate to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the asset being tested, primarily the achievability of the longterm business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
The Committee addresses these matters through their own knowledge and experience of the business and through receiving reports from management outlining the basis for the assumptions used.
In addition, the reporting by the external auditors to the Committee is considered.
Asset lives and residual values Judgement is made on the assessment of residual value and the estimated useful lives of assets.
The Committee reviews Group policy on specific groups of assets and challenges accordingly.
Fair, balanced and understandable In order to confirm to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, there has been a thorough verification and approval process using the Committees knowledge of the Company, as outlined below: the Annual Report is drafted by the appropriate senior management with overall coordination by the Secretariat team to ensure consistency: comprehensive reviews of the drafts of the Report and Accounts are undertaken by management, the Executive Committee and me, as the Audit Committee Chairman: a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the Board: and formal approval of the Annual Report and Accounts is given by a Committee of the Board.
Internal control and risk management The Audit Committee holds an annual evaluation of internal controls in March.
The Committee reviews the Group risk matrix and assesses the effectiveness of the internal processes that have been implemented to enable those risks to be mitigated and monitored.
This review is completed in conjunction with an Internal Controls Effectiveness Review from PwC.
Each risk is assessed and the level of assurance required is determined.
The Audit Committee then approves a plan from the Director of Internal Audit to carry out reviews of the chosen risk areas during the following year.
Information systems During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the information system improvement programmes.
The Chief Information Officer presented the plans including the upgrades to the IT infrastructure and hotel reservation system and the enhancements to IT security controls.
The development of the capabilities within the information systems team were also monitored.
Internal audit The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the scope, extent and effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
During the year, a new Director of Internal Audit was appointed.
Reports from PwC were reviewed and contained updates on audit activities, the results of unsatisfactory audits and any relevant action plans to address these areas.
Private discussions were held with the Director of Internal Audit as and when necessary and I have also met with PwC regularly outside of the formal Committee process.
Whitbread Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 report 58 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Audit Committee report continued External audit The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor.
There is a review of the performance of the external auditor and its independence and effectiveness.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
We receive from Ernst & Young a detailed audit plan, identifying their assessment of these key risks.
For the 2014 15 financial year, the primary risks identified were in relation to revenue recognition, defined benefit pension scheme and property related provisions.
These risks were reviewed and the work done by the auditors was challenged to test managements assumptions and estimates around these areas, as well as other areas reported upon, which included impairment and taxation.
The effectiveness of the audit process was assessed in addressing these matters through the reporting we received from Ernst & Young at both the halfyear and yearend.
In addition feedback was sought from management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
We hold private meetings with the external auditor at the halfyear and fullyear Committee meetings to provide additional opportunities for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management being present.
Change of auditor Ernst & Young has been the external auditor for over 60 years.
It was decided during the year that it would be appropriate to review the provider of statutory audit services and to undertake a competitive tender.
The top UK accounting firms were invited to submit a tender response from which two firms were selected to go through a more extensive tender process.
This consisted of them understanding the Groups structures, accounts, tax and policies, and several meetings with the finance leaders, the Group Finance Director, the General Counsel and myself.
Each audit firm then made its tender presentation and the Audit Committee considered each proposal and made its recommendation to the Board.
The criteria used to reach this decision included: the capability to provide comprehensive and effective audit services: the quality of the team: cultural fit with Whitbread: the overall audit approach: transition plan: and independence and governance.
As announced in March 2015, it was concluded that Deloitte LLP should be appointed as the Companys statutory auditor, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 16 June 2015.
I would like to thank Ernst & Young for their significant contribution over many years and we look forward to working with Deloitte LLP in the future.
Auditor independence To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the Committees Terms of Reference set out the nonaudit services that are permitted in certain circumstances and those not permitted at all.
This prevents the auditor being able to provide certain services such as internal audits.
For certain specified audit and auditrelated services, the Group can employ the external auditor without reference to the Audit Committee, subject to a specified fee limit.
For the services permitted in certain circumstances, agreement must be sought from me, as Chairman of the Committee where fees are less than the limit specified, or with full Audit Committee approval where fees are anticipated to be greater.
A tender process would be held where appropriate.
Committee evaluation The Committees activities formed part of the internal review of the Board effectiveness undertaken during the year.
Details of this process can be found on pages 53 and 54.
Simon Melliss Chairman, Audit Committee 27 April 2015 Whitbread Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 report 59
