Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Corporate governance Introduction from Richard Baker, Chairman At Whitbread we recognise that corporate governance touches all aspects of our business and affects all of our employees in many different ways.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of governance to ensure that the Company is managed with integrity and transparency.
During the year key governance activities have included: the Chairman succession process: Richard Baker Chairman an internal evaluation of the Board: a talent review and succession plan for key executive roles: and a review of the Boards ways of working.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Board takes responsibility for high standards of accountability and ethical behaviour.
The 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found at www.
uk, was applicable to the financial year covered by this Report and is the standard against which we measured ourselves.
In order to measure our compliance we undertook a thorough review of our corporate governance arrangements including our: overall compliance with the Code with respect to business and corporate practices: matters reserved to the Board: and terms of reference for each of the three Board committees.
The results of this review were presented at the January Board meeting and formally adopted by the Board.
We are compliant with the Code with the exception of provision B.
Given my recent appointment as Chairman it was agreed by the Board as a whole that the external evaluation due to take place in January 2015 be postponed for a further twelve months.
This will be completed later in the year and the results will be discussed in the 2015 16 Annual Report and Accounts.
Our intention remains to have an external evaluation every three years.
Details of how Whitbread has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code with regard to remuneration can be found in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 76.
Details of the members and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found on page 67.
Details of the members and activities of the Audit and Nomination Committees can be found on pages 57 to 61.
The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2014 Code will apply to the Company in 2015 16 and work is underway towards our compliance next year.
This includes the development and preparation of the longerterm view of the Groups going concern basis and the definition and identification of significant failings or weaknesses during the annual review of risk management and internal control.
Maintaining high standards of corporate governance is vital to supporting our financial performance and protecting your Company.
We keep all developments under review and always aim for a level of governance that is appropriate and relevant to the Company.
Richard Baker Chairman 27 April 2015 Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 governance 48 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Leadership and the Board of Directors The Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined roles which are separate and distinct.
The specific duties The Board of Directors and division of responsibilities between the Chairman and There are ten members of the Board including the Chairman, Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and are Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director.
composition of the Board is shown in the chart below.
Chairman Composition of the Board Leadership of the Board and setting its agenda including approval of the Groups strategy, business plans, annual budget and key areas of business importance.
Chairman: Maintaining appropriate contact with major shareholders and Executive directors: ensuring that Board members understand their views concerning the Company.
Independent nonexecutive directors: Ensuring a culture of openness and debate around the Board table.
Leading the annual evaluation of the Board, the committees and individual directors.
Ensuring, through the General Counsel, that the members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Biographical details of each of the directors can be found Chief Executive on pages 50 and 51.
Optimising the performance of the Company.
We believe that it is vital for the Board to contain a diverse Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and employees.
range of skills, backgrounds and experiences to enable a The creation of shareholder value by delivering profitable growth broad evaluation of all matters considered and to contribute and a good return on capital.
to a positive culture of mutual respect and constructive Ensuring the Company has a strong team of highcalibre executives, challenge.
The mix of skills and experience represented on and putting in place appropriate management succession and the Board is outlined below.
Leading the activities of the Whitbread Directors Forum a group Board experience of the Companys most senior executives.
Number of directors Number of directors Senior Independent Director Retail sector 5 International 8 The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board Travel and hospitality sector 2 Commercial property 1 for the Chairman and supports him in the delivery of his Marketing 1 Technology 1 objectives.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels Legal 1 Human Resources 1 have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate to raise Financial 4 with the Chairman or the executive team.
He also leads the evaluation of the Chairman on behalf of the other directors.
Board responsibilities The Board is responsible for the longterm success of The Senior Independent Director can be contacted directly the Company and ensures that there are effective controls or through the General Counsel.
in place which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
All Board members have responsibility for strategy, Executive directors performance, risk and people.
The executive directors are responsible for the daytoday running of the business and for implementing the operational and strategic plans of the Company.
Nonexecutive directors The nonexecutive directors play a key role in constructively challenging and scrutinising the performance of the management of the Company and helping to develop proposals on strategy.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 governance 49
