Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Nomination Committee report Role of the Nomination Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the Board composition and identify and nominate directors who could improve the Boards performance.
The Committee is also responsible for evaluating the directors on an annual basis and striving for a balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diverse representation.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The main activities during 2014 15 included: the appointment of the new Whitbread Chairman: Richard Baker Chairman, Nomination the annual planning and review meeting: Committee a review of the Board size, structure and composition, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: Members of the a review of the talent and succession planning for the Board, taking into account the Nomination Committee challenges and opportunities facing the business: and Richard Baker Chairman the reelection of directors at the AGM.
Wendy Becker The Committee is responsible for ensuring that Board and committee membership is Sir Ian Cheshire progressively refreshed and that there is no undue reliance on any one individual.
This is reviewed at the annual meeting in March.
Simon Melliss Stephen Williams The full terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Simon Barratt Secretary Board appointments and diversity Appointments to the Board are based on merit against objective criteria.
Diversity and equality have always been core values at Whitbread.
The Board believes that diversity is of utmost importance, ensuring Board and Company effectiveness and continued success.
Whitbread appoints members of the Board on the basis of performance and ability of continually contributing to the Board, on the grounds of the knowledge, skills and experience required.
We are committed to an active policy of equal opportunities and embrace diversity at all levels.
Our approach to the appointment of new directors The Nomination Committee annually evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board, preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
We use external search consultants to engage and identify a number of candidates, ensuring equal representation, aligned with the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Selected candidates meet with the Nomination Committee and further interviews take place before an appointment is made.
Our approach to the annual reelection of directors As required by the Code, all directors will be subject to reelection at the next AGM.
The Nomination Committee held a planning and review meeting in March when the contribution and commitment of each member of the Board was reviewed.
Following this discussion, it was recommended that all directors be proposed for reappointment at this years AGM.
Details setting out why each director is deemed to be suitable for reappointment will be included with the AGM papers circulated to all shareholders.
Whitbread Nomination Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Committee report 60 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Nomination Committee report continued Susan Taylor Martins first threeyear term came to an end in January 2015.
It was recommended that she be reappointed for a further threeyear period.
The only nonexecutive directors of the Board that have been directors for a term longer than six years are Simon Melliss, Wendy Becker and Stephen Williams.
Length of tenure of directors Richard Baker Andy Harrison Nicholas Cadbury Christopher Rogers Louise Smalley Wendy Becker Sir Ian Cheshire Simon Melliss Susan Taylor Martin Stephen Williams Chief Executive succession Following Andy Harrisons decision to retire as Chief Executive, a key focus for the Nomination Committee is to find his successor.
Full details of the process will be disclosed in next years report.
Richard Baker Chairman, Nomination Committee 27 April 2015 Chairman succession Following an announcement in January 2014 concerning chairman succession, Anthony Habgood stepped down from the Board on 1 September after nine years as Chairman.
The process to find his successor was led by myself with the Nomination Committee and supported by Louise Smalley, the Group HR Director.
Following a selection process, JCA Group were appointed as advisers to the Committee in the search for external candidates.
JCA Group has no other connections to the Company.
A detailed specification for the role of Whitbread Chairman was prepared, Sir Ian Cheshire taking into account the knowledge, experience and skills required for the role.
A preliminary list of candidates was prepared for consideration by the Nomination Committee which then selected those to be interviewed.
Richard Baker was identified at the beginning of the search as an internal candidate.
He joined the interview and assessment process Sir Ian Cheshire and was treated on equal terms to the external candidates.
Each member of the Nomination Committee met all of the candidates Senior Independent Director and gave written feedback which was collated by JCA Group.
27 April 2015 A final meeting of the Nomination Committee concluded that Richard Baker was the best choice from a strong field of candidates and a recommendation was made to the Board that he be appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 September 2014.
Whitbread Nomination Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Committee report 61
