William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 60 Conicts of interest Board Committees James Henderson, CEO Chair The composition of the Board means The Remuneration Committee, the Philip Bowcock, CFO thatmany of the directors have experience Nomination Committee, the Audit and Joe Asher, CEO William Hill US and roles outside of William Hill.
Whilst Risk Management Committee and the Robin Chhabra, Group Director of this brings benets to the stewardship of Corporate Responsibility Committee Strategy and Corporate Development William Hill, controls are in place to ensure are standing committees of the that suitable arrangements are made Board.
The terms of reference of the Nicola Frampton, Director, UK Retail when a directors external role could come Committees are available upon request Michael Leadbeater, into conict with their duties as a director or via the Groups corporate website Director of Group Legal Services of William Hill.
In accordance with the www.
com and are regularly Karen Myers, Group Human Companies Act 2006, the Companys reviewed by the relevant Committee and Resources Director Articles of Association include provisions the Board.
All Committees have access to Crispin Nieboer, Interim Managing reecting recommended practice independent expert advice as necessary.
Director, Online concerning conicts of interest.
The Board Appointments to Board Committees are Kevin OConnor, has in place procedures for directors to for three-year terms extendable by no more Group Chief Information officer report any potential or actual conicts than two additional three-year terms.
to the other members of the Board for Alex OShaughnessy, James Henderson also chairs an their authorisation where appropriate.
Chief Marketing officer Executive Committee team, which meets In deciding whether to authorise a Terry Pattinson, Group Director at least six times a year and includes conict or potential conict of interest of Trading senior management within the business.
only non-interested directors i. e. those David Steele, The Executive Committee team retains who have no interest in the matter under Director of Corporate Affairs oversight on issues affecting the day-to-day consideration will be able to take the management of the Groups operations Luke Thomas, Company Secretary relevant decision.
In taking the decision the and also reviews certain matters prior to Tom Waterhouse, directors must act in a way they consider, Board or Board Committee consideration.
CEO William Hill Australia in good faith, will be most likely to promote Members and regular attendees at the Companys success.
In addition, Executive Committee team meetings are: the directors may impose conditions or limitations when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
Board performance Each newly-appointed director receives an The review concluded that the Board and Boardactivities induction and each induction programme continues to work well and that there is an Information and professional development is tailored specically to suit the needs of overall improving trend.
Areas for further The Chairman, supported by the Company the newly-appointed director.
During the improvement were identied during the Secretary, takes responsibility for ensuring year, Philip Bowcock was appointed to the evaluation for implementation, including: that the directors receive accurate, Board.
Philip Bowcocks induction covered agreement that there had been a timely and clear information across a a range of general, industry and Groupbetter focus by the Board on material wide range of matters relevant for the specic information and also included strategic items and the importance Board to operate effectively.
In addition meetings with each member of the Board was recognised of maintaining this to receiving presentations from internal and each member of the Executive momentum.
In particular, a more management, the Board also from time to Committee team.
focused format for the Board Strategy time requests external advisers to provide Each director has access to all required Conference had been agreed to briengs to support better awareness of information relating to the Group and to facilitate a better ability to probe into issues and to facilitate decision-making.
the advice and services of the Company key issues further: Directors are also encouraged to attend Secretary.
The Board also obtains advice external seminars on areas of relevance a more formalised and systematic from professional advisers as and when to their role to further enhance their process was needed for the Board required and directors may, as required, knowledge and suitable training events are to consider future discussion topics obtain external advice at the expense of identied by the Company Secretary and and to provide the Board with a more the Group.
details are then forwarded to the directors.
structured process to raise other Board performance evaluation discussion topics over a longer-term The Chairman is responsible for taking the The Board continues to recognise the horizon.
A formal one-year rolling lead on issues of director development benets of an effective evaluation of agenda has now been created and is and encouraging all Board members to its performance and the process for circulated to the Board.
This facilitates engage in Board and Committee meetings 2015 was conducted internally with the a formal discussion item that the by drawing on their skills, experience and assistance of the Company Secretary.
right topics have been selected and knowledge.
In particular, the Chairman Questionnaires were agreed by the prioritised for the Boards review over has led a process whereby some of the Chairman in respect of the Board and by the next year: Non-executive Directors deepened their each Committee chair in respect of their knowledge of the business through a respective Board Committee.
Each Board series of individual site visits across the member and Committee member business.
This has proved to be very completed their respective questionnaires helpful and observations following site visits and the results were collated for further are shared with the rest of the Board.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 61 Governance the quality of brieng papers received minor changes were considered and Attendance at Board and Board by the Board continues to be generally agreed to optimise the frequency Committee meetings Financial high but there was some room for and scheduling of some Committee Details of Board and Committee statements further improvement.
In particular, meetings: and attendance during 2015 are set out improvements to better highlight key in the table below.
All directors are more time should be devoted to points in brieng papers were needed: expected to attend all Board and relevant discussing succession planning over Committee meetings.
1 Board Audit and Risk Corporate Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 91 6446 Meetings attended Gareth Davis 9 1 n a 4 4 6 2 Neil Cooper 7 n a n a n a n a 2 Philip Bowcock 3 n a n a n a n a Sir Roy Gardner 91 6445 Georgina Harvey 91 n a446 James Henderson 9 1 n a 4 n a n a Ashley Higheld 8 1 6 4 4 n a David Lowden 91 6 n a 46 Imelda Walsh 9 1 6446 Where a director was not in attendance, this was due to other unavoidable commitments.
Directors who were unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting received the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any director who missed a meeting received the minutes of that meeting for future reference.
In addition to attending at Board and Committee meetings, each of the Non-executive Directors devotes sufficient time to the Company to ensure that their responsibilities are met effectively.
This includes preparation ahead of each meeting and for the Chairman and Committee Chairs, holding planning meetings and discussions with the relevant executives or senior management ahead of a meeting to ensure that each meeting has been well-prepared.
The Chairman maintains frequent contact with all members of the Board between meetings and has regular meetings with the CEO to keep apprised of material developments in the business.
1 The ad-hoc Board meeting during the year was held to consider and approve the appointment of a new CFO.
In addition to the above Board meetings, during the year there were three meetings of a Committee of the Board established to give final approval to the release of the Companys trading results.
The Committee of the Board comprised the Chairman, CEO and CFO and there was full attendance for all three meetings.
2 Philip Bowcock joined the Board on 1 November 2015 and Neil Cooper left the Board on 6 November 2015.
Neil attended all scheduled Board meetings for the period in which he was a director, however, as the ad-hoc Board meeting during the year was to consider and approve the appointment of a new CFO, Neil did not attend that meeting.
Philip attended all Board meetings for the period in which he was a director.
Summary of Board activity during 2015 regular updates on Project Trafalgar and branding of the Australian business: Each scheduled Board meeting reviews other initiatives to support the control of Board evaluation and governance: individual reports received from the CEO, our own technology: the CFO, the Director of Group Legal approval of the annual operating plan extensions to our Online gaming Services and the Company Secretary, for 2016 and the five-year strategic plan: product offerings and new digital as well as reviewing progress against Sportsbook services: updates on strategies in respect of previously agreed actions.
Other topics and marketing and customer data: and discussions in Board meetings held in 2015 various updates on new regulations, included the following: laws and taxation: a report on the views of some of the Companys largest institutional investors.
consideration and approval of the consideration of the business capital appointment of Philip Bowcock as CFO: structure over the longer term: the Board periodically reviewed briengs on the Retail business potential acquisitions in pursuit of its including capital management strategy.
During the year, the Board and technology: approved the acquisition of a 29.4% interest in NeoGames: William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 62 Engagement with shareholders AGM The Articles of Association of the Company The Board continues to consider the require that any newly appointed director Relations with shareholders Each year, the Director of Investor Relations AGM as an important opportunity to will be subject to election at the following communicate directly with all shareholders.
AGM and also that directors will submit prepares a scheduled programme of contact between the Company and its At the AGM in 2015, the Chairman themselves for re-election at least once and the CEO took the opportunity to every three years.
However, in accordance largest institutional investors.
This supports a regular dialogue with the Companys summarise William Hills performance with the provisions of the Code, the and achievements in the prior year and Board has agreed that all directors should institutional shareholders, where the CEO and CFO meet with investors to discuss the toprovide a business update.
be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Directors may be elected business further.
Great care is exercised, Board members, including the chairs of however, during such meetings to ensure or re-elected by passing an ordinary the Remuneration, Nomination, Audit resolution at a general meeting.
that any price sensitive information is and Risk Management, and Corporate not disclosed as such information is Responsibility Committees, attended Risk Management and only released at the same time to all the 2015 AGM meeting and intend to shareholders, in accordance with the Corporate Culture attend the 2016 AGM to be available to Approach to risk management requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
At the conclusion of the The section Managing our Risks Presentations are also provided to formal AGM, shareholders are provided outlines the Boards approach to the institutional shareholders and analysts with an opportunity to discuss business management of risks within the business following the publication of the Groups matters informally with the directors and and summarises the principal risks facing financial results or for other selected topics other senior managers in the business.
The sections below provide in respect of the business.
Copies of This provides the Company with a further further detail on the Boards actions to such presentations are made available opportunity to understand and respond monitor the Companys risk management on the Groups corporate website, tothe views of the shareholders.
com, for a period In order that shareholders are aware of the in this regard is supported by the Audit following the event.
other shareholders voting intentions, the and Risk Management Committee and The Chairman is available to discuss details of proxy votes for the AGM held in further details of the activities undertaken 2015 were made available at the general by the Committee to support the risk strategy and governance issues with shareholders and Sir Roy Gardner, as meeting and were published to the London management framework is provided in the Stock Exchange and made available on report which appears on pages 65 to 67. the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, is available to shareholders if the Groups website following the meeting.
Internal control they have concerns that have not been, Each of the resolutions at the AGM held The Board has overall responsibility for or cannot be, addressed through the in 2015 was passed with the requisite the Groups internal control systems Chairman, CEO or CFO.
level of approval and the Board considers and for monitoring their effectiveness.
that there was a high level of support for Meetings between the Chairman, CEO Executive directors and senior each resolution.
As the Board considers management are responsible for making and or the CFO and shareholders can be that the level of support received at the held on request to discuss governance and sure that risks are understood and they are 2015 AGM was significant, the Board also responsible for the implementation, corporate responsibility issues generally.
considers it is not necessary to provide monitoring and maintenance of the The Group obtains feedback from its additional disclosure on the reasons for internal control systems, which are subject corporate brokers and its investor relations those votes which were cast against or that to regular review.
The Group Risk & adviser on the views of institutional any additional action should be taken in Audit function maintains an assurance investors on a non-attributable basis respectof those votes against.
framework recording the key internal and the CEO and or CFO, supported controls in every business unit and A separate resolution is proposed on each by the Director of Investor Relations, substantially separate issue.
It is intended department throughout the Group.
communicate the issues and concerns to continue with these practices for 2016 of major shareholders to the Board.
The Board monitors the ongoing process and for future shareholder meetings.
It is As a matter of routine, the Board receives by which critical risks to the business planned to post the Notice of the 2016 regular reports from its advisers on issues are identied, evaluated and managed.
AGM to shareholders with the 2015 relating to recent share price performance, This process is consistent with the Annual Report and Accounts at least trading activity and general institutional FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, 20 working days prior to the date of the investor sentiment.
The Board also receives Internal Control and Related Financial and meeting.
The website also contains the copies of relevant analysts reports on an Business Reporting published in 2014.
Notice of General Meeting and supporting ad hoc basis and other matters of interest explanatory notes.
in the media via the Companys in-house Investor Relations team.
During 2015, one area of focus from an investor relations perspective was to acquaint the investment community with Philip Bowcock, following his appointment as the Companys CFO.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 63 Governance At least annually, the Board assesses The Board regularly reviews the actual The Board uses the control and risk and forecast performance of the business management processes to identify and the effectiveness of the Groups system Financial of internal controls including financial, compared with the annual plan, as well manage any significant risks arising from statements as other key performance indicators social, environmental and ethical issues.
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
This is both financial and non-financial.
Further details of the Groups corporate Forecast performance is revised during responsibility practices are described on supported by an ongoing process for the provision of effective internal control and the year as necessary, taking into account pages 34 to 43. performance for the year-to-date and risk management systems, which include: Risks and opportunities are also performance going forward.
regular scheduled meetings of the embedded for consideration where key Board and its Committees, the Lines of responsibility and delegated decisions and approvals are required by Executive Committee team and authorities are clearly dened.
In particular, part of the annual Business Reviews for each business policies and procedures are regularly operating plan considers key risks and unit.
This provides regular opportunities updated and distributed throughout the opportunities which may impact upon the to assess performance and Group.
The Audit and Risk Management business over the near term.
Additionally, potential risks: Committee receives reports on a regular each year the Board considers and basis on compliance with the Groups approves a five-year strategic plan which established structures and delegations policies and procedures.
reects the Companys strategy and of authorities which sets out the environment in which the business responsibilities and levels of authority: The directors confirm that they operates.
Risks are included as part of have undertaken a review of the ongoing procedures, including those the consideration of the five-year plan to effectiveness of the Companys system already described, which are in place to provide a longer-term assessment on of risk management and internal controls.
manage perceived risks: issues which may impact the business.
These covered material controls, which included controls covering operational, A key tool to ensure effective ongoing risk regular reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee which inform financial and compliance matters.
management throughout the business is The controls operated during the financial to ensure that the executive directors are the Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control systems year, although as with many large and sufciently involved and have oversight of complex organisations, there were some the material aspects of the operation of and significant control issues: additional controls implemented or further each business unit.
This is accomplished the continuous Group-wide process strengthened during the year.
In particular, through regular interactions between each for formally identifying, evaluating and steps taken to reduce reliance on third business unit with the executive directors, managing the principal risks to the parties within the William Hill Online gaming including regular scheduled Business achievement of the Groups objectives: environment have required system and Reviews which are held with the respective process changes to strengthen controls.
business unit Managing Director and other reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee on the results The Audit and Risk Committee were made senior business unit managers throughout aware of the control changes and there the year.
The Business Review meetings of internal audit reviews and work undertaken by other departments: and was no significant impact on financial review all material operational aspects results.
The directors confirm that no of the business unit, including risks.
m anagements controls selfsignificant failings or weaknesses were assessment.
This provides for a Internal Audit identied as a result of the review of the The Group Risk and Audit function reviews comprehensive bottom-up process effectiveness of the Groups system of for key managers throughout the the extent to which systems of internal internal control.
control are effective, are adequate to organisation to confirm compliance with material operational matters.
Assessment of risk manage the Groups significant risks, safeguard the Groups assets and, in A corporate risk register is maintained The Groups internal control systems and is regularly updated following detailed conjunction with the Company Secretary, are designed to manage, rather than aim to ensure compliance with legal review by the Group Risk & Audit function eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the and senior management during the year.
It provides Groups objectives, and can only provide ongoing independent and objective The register is approved annually by the reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Audit and Risk Management Committee assurance on risks and controls to the against material misstatement or loss.
The register records In assessing what constitutes reasonable the key risks facing the business, the assurance, the Board considers the The Groups financial and operational assessment of the likelihood of the risks materiality of financial and non-financial controls and associated procedures are crystallising and their potential materiality, risks and the relationship between subject to periodic review to ensure that and the Groups response to each risk.
the cost of, and benefit from, internal they remain robust and t for purpose.
Responsibility for management of the risks control systems.
Risk and Audits work is focused on areas is attributed to senior management and of greatest risk to the Group, as determined management remain aware of the risks by a structured risk assessment process facing the business and operate in a risk involving executive directors and aware manner.
Existing risk management senior management.
processes have been maintained and have been further refreshed to help ensure it continues to meet the needs of the Group.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 64 The process was further enhanced in Financial Review and in notes 20 to 21 in A formal whistle-blowing policy and the financial statements.
procedure for staff to raise issues 2015 to include both a backwards-looking review of the financial year completed and regarding possible improprieties is already As highlighted in notes 20 and 21 to the in place.
During 2015, an exercise was the approval of a forward-looking annual financial statements, the Group meets its plan for the next financial year.
In respect undertaken to further increase awareness day-to-day working capital requirements of whistle-blowing services across the of the backwards-looking review, an from positive operational cash ow and analysis was prepared for the Audit and Group and the results of the exercise its available cash resources.
These are were reviewed by the Audit and Risk Risk Management Committee to assess supplemented when required by additional the coverage of corporate level risks Management Committee, which helped drawings under the Groups bank loan to provide additional feedback to the through the internal audits undertaken facilities, which are committed until May for the year.
The analysis helped to Committee on the culture within the 2019.
Whilst there are a number of risks business.
The Company also has clear support the Boards determination that an to the Groups trading performance, the appropriate review had been undertaken policies and procedures to prevent, detect Group does not have any material debt and to report suspected fraud and during of the effectiveness of the Companys repayment obligations before November system of risk management and internal 2015 a new communication initiative was 2016.
The Groups strategic forecasts, prepared by senior management for launch controls, including principal risks and key based on reasonable assumptions, controls.
Where appropriate, output from in 2016 and was reviewed in advance indicate that the Group should be able by the Audit and Risk Management the backwards-looking analysis will be to operate within the level of its currently used to inform and further strengthen Committee.
The new initiative includes a available committed facilities and its video with a personal message from the the forward-looking annual internal audit banking covenants for the period of the plan.
In respect of the forward-looking CFO which re-enforces the expectations strategic forecast.
from the top of the Company and the plan, this is approved by the Audit and Risk Management Committee and After making enquiries and after video also provides practical reminders of consideration of the Groups existing the steps which should be taken if a fraud is then reviewed in greater detail on a quarter-by-quarter basis during the operations, cash ow forecasts and is suspected.
The Company also has a assessment of business, regulatory policy in place regarding anti-bribery and financial year, which allows for further renement as necessary.
In addition to and nancing risks, the directors have a corruption and during 2015 a high-level the foregoing, during 2015 the Group reasonable expectation that the Company review was undertaken and discussed Risk and Audit function provided ongoing and the Group have adequate resources with the Audit and Risk Management assurance to management and the Audit to continue in operational existence for Committee on the controls which are and Risk Management Committee in the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the in place and in respect of how the respect of a number of significant internal directors confirm that they continue to Companys policy is communicated to change projects.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing its employees.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
It is vital that William Hill maintains the right The Director of Risk and Audit and the Head of Internal Audit report regularly Corporate culture culture to perform effectively in the five regulated gambling markets in which the to the Audit and Risk Management The Board recognises that a clear tone Committee on work undertaken, the from the top and a commitment to sound business operates.
During 2015, a Group Compliance Committee was formed which results of audit reviews, the adequacy principles of conducting its business can of the Internal Audit functions resources further help to support positive behaviours now provides additional oversight on regulatory compliance across the Group.
and on progress against the annual audit within the Company.
The Director of Risk and Audit also of the Board, which is discharged with the Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO which ensures that Boardreports regularly on the actions taken by assistance of standing committees and management in response to audit reviews senior management as needed.
level views on the culture of compliance within the organisation are communicated and during 2015 the reporting and tracking From the point of recruitment, all staff of actions was further enhanced to further directly to those responsible for compliance are made aware of existing Company within the business.
One of the outputs improve transparency and the monitoring policies and codes which are designed to of completed management actions.
of the Committee was a new statement encourage and support good conduct.
on compliance, approved by the This enhanced process provided the Audit Reward mechanisms are also designed and Risk Management Committee with CEO, which sets out expectations on to incentivise good behaviours and good compliance across the whole of the Group.
additional assurance that timely actions performance and not to encourage were being taken in response to audit Committee meetings are also attended by excessive risk-taking.
In particular, malus the Head of Risk & Audit and this helps to reviews.
The role of the Internal Audit and clawback provisions exist in the department and the scope of its work support a more holistic view of regulatory bonus and incentive arrangements for the compliance as part of the business continue to evolve, to take account of executive directors and for other executive changes within the business and emerging framework of operational controls and management.
This is more fully explained risk management.
in the Directors Report on Remuneration.
Going concern Other levels of management have reward Remuneration A full description of the Groups business mechanisms which are designed to activities, financial position, cash ows, promote our corporate behaviours and The Directors Remuneration Report liquidity position, committed facilities strong personal performance.
is set out on pages 72 to 92. and borrowing position, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and performance, is set out in the Strategic Report, including the
