William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 70 THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE HAS A VITAL ROLE IN ENSURING THERE ISAN EFFECTIVE PROCESS IN PLACE FOR FUTURE BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND SUCCESSION PLANNING.
DURING THE YEAR, THE COMMITTEE DEALTSUCCESSFULLY WITH THE SUCCESSION OF A NEW CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, A CRITICAL ROLE OF THE BOARD.
THE COMMITTEE WILL CONTINUE TO FOCUS ON THE RIGHT MIX OF SKILLS, BACKGROUND, KNOWLEDGE AND LENGTH OF TENURE OF BOARD MEMBERS TO ENSUREWE MAINTAIN A STRONG BOARD OVER THE LONGER TERM.
Gareth Davis Chairman, Nomination Committee Membership and meetings Role of the Nomination Committee In respect of the recruitment of a new director, the Committee prepares a Set out below is the membership of the A full copy of the terms of reference for description of the role required.
An external Nomination Committee together with the the Committee can be obtained via the rm is appointed, taking into account the year in which membership commenced.
com or by rms ability to nd suitable candidates.
request to the Company Secretary.
Year of The Committee also ensures that the Director appointment The Committees principal responsibilities rm has subscribed to the relevant Gareth Davis, Chairman 2010 are to: industry codes on executive searches Sir Roy Gardner 2014 including diversity.
make appointment recommendations Georgina Harvey 2011 to the Board for the appointment, On joining the Board, Non-executive Ashley Higheld 2009 Directors receive a formal appointment re-appointment or replacement David Lowden 2011 of directors: letter, which identies the time commitment Imelda Walsh 2011 expected of them.
Once appointed, devise and consider succession the new director undergoes a tailored planning arrangements for directors The Company Secretary acts as secretary induction and familiarisation programme and, as appropriate, other senior to the Committee.
All members of the implemented by the Company Secretary executives: and Committee are independent Non-executive with input from the Chairman and CEO.
Directors and the Committee is chaired regularly review the structure, skills, Any potential director is required to disclose by the Board Chairman.
In order to ensure size, composition and balance of all significant outside commitments prior to therearefully informed discussions, the the Board and recommend any appointment and the Board has approved CEO and or the Group Human Resources proposed changes.
a policy requiring disclosure and approval Director are invited to attend meetings as by the Board of all additional appointments The Chairman of the Nomination appropriate.
The Committee met on four for executive or Non-executive Directors.
Committee reports to the Board on the occasions during 2015.
Although there were changes in the outcome of meetings.
Matters within outside commitments of some directors the remit of the Committee are also on during 2015, none of these was material to occasion undertaken by the Board, for the extent that it would impact on the time example, discussions on succession required to commit to the Company.
planning and more informal meetings with managers in the Companys talent pipeline.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term, extendable by a further two additional three-year terms.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive and service contracts of executive directors are available to shareholders for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and at the AGM.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 71 Governance Financial statements Main activities during 2015 During the selection process for Philip, the Board diversity and composition Committee took its responsibility in respect During 2015, the Nomination Committee The Board already has a diverse range of diversity seriously.
Inzito is accredited by way of expertise, business sector played an important part in ensuring that under the Enhanced Code of Conduct the leadership in the business remained background and by length of tenure on for Executive Search rms and as such is the Board.
We recognise the benets well positioned for the future.
Neil Cooper, committed to improving the diversity of the the former Group Finance Director, that diverse viewpoints can contribute in boards with which they work.
It is the intention of the resigned in June in order to become other connection with the Company.
the CFO of Barratt Developments PLC.
Board to keep the benets that derive The Committee aims to plan ahead for from a diverse Board in mind when As a result, a process commenced to search for a successor.
The Committee any future changes in Board composition.
Currently 25% of With this in mind, during the year Sir Roy the Board is comprised of women.
We do was supported by the Group Human Resources Director and the Committee Gardner as Senior Independent Director not believe that setting a quota is the held discussions with Gareth Davis on the most appropriate method for achieving a appointed The Inzito Partnership Inzito, an external consultancy rm, to conduct position of the Chairman.
Gareth Davis balanced Board and all our appointments was appointed as Chairman in September are made on merit.
We pursue diversity, the search and they were responsible for nding suitable candidates from outside of 2010 and his current term of ofce expires including gender diversity, throughout the in August 2016 but is renewable for a business and will continue to follow a policy William Hill.
In addition, an internal search process was run in parallel with the external further three years beyond August 2016. of appointing talented people at every level Gareth expressed his wish to continue to deliver high performance.
The Nomination Committee considered the diverse and demanding serving as Chairman beyond August 2016. our development in this area is consistent range of personal and strategic skills, Sir Roy subsequently led a discussion with our own strategic objectives and is outlook and experience required for the at the Nomination Committee at which enhancing in terms of Board effectiveness.
An initial list of candidates was Gareth Davis was not present and the Going forward, the Committee will take prepared and reviewed by the Committee Committee unanimously recommended a more detailed look at the longer-term and a number of interviews were held to the Board that Gareths term be composition of the Board and how with shortlisted candidates.
The search extended for another three years from this supports the strategic priorities and interviews resulted in the Nomination August 2016.
The Board welcomed the and leadership needs of the business.
Committee making a unanimous recommendation, which was approved.
The Board has also noted the recent final recommendation to the Board that Philip During 2015 and up to the date of this report by Lord Davies on gender diversity, Bowcock be appointed as the new CFO.
report, the Committee also: which includes a recommendation as In addition to the requirements of the a next step for increasing the voluntary position, the Committee recognised the kept under review succession planning: target for womens representation on benets of Philips long track record in the reviewed a report issued by Lord Davies boards of FTSE 350 companies to a leisure industry and his strong commercial in respect of women on boards: minimum of 33% over the next five years.
background in multi-site international The Committee will be reviewing this in businesses.
The Board reviewed and considered and recommended to the more detail in due course.
However, all approved the Nomination Committees Board that each director be proposed appointments will continue to be made recommendation and in August the for re-appointment at the 2015 AGM: on merit.
Company was pleased to announce the and appointment of Philip Bowcock as the new reviewed and updated the Committees Gareth Davis CFO.
Philip joined the Board in November.
