Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Governance 36 Corporate governance report Chairmans governance statement I am satisfied that the Board is performing effectively Introduction from Andrew Higginson and contains an appropriate mixture of skills, I am pleased to introduce on behalf of the Board, experience and independence.
I also consider that Morrisons Corporate governance report for the each of the Non-Executive Directors is able to commit financial year 2014 15. an appropriate amount of time in fullling their role and responsibilities on the Board effectively.
As noted in previous reports, the Board believes that Diversity how the business does something is just as important We recognise the importance of diversity across our as what it does.
Morrisons values are embedded in colleague base, and the Board itself, in delivering an ourcorporate governance policies and principles effective blend of knowledge, skills and experience.
Although with two female members 28% of total Maintaining high standards of corporate governance composition, the Board complies with its policy is a priority of the Board.
Our corporate governance requirement to maintain formal representation at compliance statement has been reviewed and notless than 20%, there is an aspiration to increase updated during the year and will continue to be this to at least 30%.
In addition, steps are being taken reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that we meet towards increasing diversity across our colleague best practice standards in corporate governance.
Further detail on our diversity policy During the year, a number of our colleagues have is provided on page 23. undertaken a comprehensive training programme oneffective Board reporting.
This has resulted in Good corporate governance is an essential part of improvements in the quality of papers presented running our business effectively, in the interests of toour Board and Committees, assisting effective our shareholders and other stakeholders.
We will decision making and enabling meetings to continue to develop our governance policies and run more efficiently.
processes in line with good practice thereby enabling our team to best utilise their skills in effectively The Board has made a number of site visits to implementing business strategy.
supermarkets and convenience stores during the year to observe and engage with the business at an Andrew Higginson operational level.
The October Board meeting was Chairman held at Morrisons online customer fullment centre in Dordon and included a tour of the distribution centre, enabling the Board to observe the online operation first hand.
CEO succession Dalton Philips stepped down as CEO on 16 February 2015.
We have recently announced the appointment of David Potts as our new CEO.
We will expect him tobuild on the positive foundations and to return the Corporate governance statement business to growth.
The Board considers that its corporate governance policies Board effectiveness and procedures are appropriate and that the Group has been Below: fully compliant with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Following the external review of Board effectiveness Code theCode throughout the financial year 2014 15 and Compliance statement in 2013 14, we have undertaken an internal to the date of this Annual report.
The Code is available on The full Compliance statement evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its theFinancial Reporting Councils website www.
can be found at: Committees this year.
The evaluation required each The Boards Corporate governance compliance statement sets www.
com member of the Board to complete a comprehensive out how the Group complies with each of the provisions of the Code and is available in the investor relations section of the questionnaire.
The results are summarised on page Groups website, www.
Although the evaluation did not highlight any The Board acknowledges the changes to the Code that were particular areas of concern, there are a number of announced in September 2014 and will apply to the Company development actions which we plan to take during from the 2015 16 financial year.
These changes will be an area 2015 16 to further strengthen the effectiveness of of focus for the Board and the relevant committees over the the Board.
next year and the Company will report on compliance against the revised Code in the 2015 16 Annual report.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 37 Committee key Nomination Committee N R Remuneration Committee C Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee Audit Committee A Board of Directors Andrew Higginson Trevor Strain Philip Cox CBE Chairman Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee N R C N R A Andrew joined the Group as Deputy Chairman and Trevor joined the Group in June 2009 as Commercial and Philip joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in Chairman Elect in October 2014 and became Chairman Operations Finance Director.
He was appointed as the Senior Independent in January 2015.
Andrew is currently the Chairman of N Finance Director Corporate and took responsibility for Director in May 2013.
Philip is a Non-Executive Director Brown Group Plc, a Non-Executive Director of Woolworth the Companys productivity programmes.
Trevor joined and Chairman Elect of Drax Group Plc and Non-Executive Holdings Limited South Africa, McCurrach UK Limited the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 10 April 2013.
He was a Non-Executive and the RFU Rugby Football Union.
Andrew was Upon Dalton Philips departure as CEO on 16 February Director at Wincanton Plc from 2001 to 2009, having previously the Chairman of Poundland Group Plc, Senior 2015, Trevor, on an interim basis, took over Daltons chaired their Audit Committee from 2001 to 2008 and was Independent Director of BSkyB Plc and an Executive executive responsibilities and chairs the Management Chair of their Remuneration Committee from 2008.
He was Director at Tesco Plc for 15 years.
Prior to joining Morrisons he worked for Tesco in also a Non-Executive Director of Meggitt Plc until January a number of roles until his appointment as UK Property 2015.
His previous Board positions were as Chief Financial Finance Director in 2006 and subsequently UK Planning Officer and then Chief Executive Officer of International and Reporting Finance Director.
Trevor began his career Power Plc and Chief Financial Officer at Siebe Plc.
with Arthur Andersen and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Richard Gillingwater CBE Penny Hughes CBE Johanna Waterous CBE Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Corporate Compliance Chairman of the Remuneration and Responsibility Committee Committee N R C A N R C A N R C A Richard joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director Penny joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in Johanna joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in in March 2013.
Richard is currently the Chairman of January 2010.
Penny is currently a Non-Executive Director February 2010.
She is currently the Senior Independent Henderson Group Plc, Deputy Chairman and Chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and a Trustee of the Director of RSA Group Plc and of Rexam Plc.
Her previous Elect of SSE Plc and the Senior Independent Director of British Museum.
Pennys previous experience includes experience includes 22 years with McKinsey & Co, London, Hiscox Ltd and Helical Bar Plc.
He is stepping down from ten years with Coca-Cola GB and Ireland and various as Head of the Retail Practice in Europe and latterly as the Board of Hiscox Ltd in May 2015.
He was previously the Non-Executive roles including Body Shop International Co-Leader of the rms Global Marketing & Sales Practice.
Deanof Cass Business School, CEO and then Chairman Plc, GAP Inc, Reuters Plc, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Johanna is a Trustee of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew of the Shareholder Executive and Joint Head of Global Trinity Mirror Plc, Vodafone Plc, Home Retail Group Plc Foundation and of Kew Enterprises Ltd.
Previous board Corporate Finance at BZW.
He has been the Chairman and Cable and Wireless Worldwide Plc.
roles include Chairman of Tate Enterprises, from 1998 to of CDC Group and a Non-Executive Director of P&O, 2006 and a Non-Executive Director of Shoppers Drugmart Debenhams, Tomkins, Qinetiq Group and Kidde.
of Richards forthcoming appointment as Chairman of SSE Plc, he does not intend to seek re-election as a Non-Executive Director of the Company and will therefore stand down from the Board at the AGM in June 2015.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Governance 38 Corporate governance report continued Leadership Structure of the Board and its Committees Chairman Key objectives: Governance of the Board PLC Board Key objectives: Overall conduct of the business and strategy setting Management Audit Corporate Compliance Remuneration Nominations Board Committee and Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Throughout the year, the majority of the Board consisted of independent PLC Board Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Ian Gibson retired from the Board and its 1 2 Members Andrew Higginson, Trevor Strain, Philip Cox, committees on 22 January 2015.
Dalton Philips stepped down as CEO Richard Gillingwater, Penny Hughes, Johanna on 16 February 2015.
3 3 Waterous, Sir Ian Gibson, Dalton Philips Board responsibilities Key objective Overall conduct of the business and strategy setting.
Responsibilities Development and approval of the strategy and key The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board remains unaltered policies of the Group: from 2013 14 and is set out in the Corporate governance compliance statement which can be found in the investor relations section of the Management of culture and values: Groups website, www.
Monitoring of progress towards achieving all Board objectives: The Board is committed to a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO.
This has been reviewed and updated by the Monitoring of financial performance, critical Board during the year and is also set out in the Corporate governance operational issues and risks by reviewing of compliance statement.
performance against strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: During the year, Sir Ian Gibson stepped down as a member of the Public Formal approval of the Groups Risk Register: Interest Body of PwC before the decision to recommend PwC for appointment as Group auditors.
Approval of all communications to shareholders, including the Annual report and financial Andrew Higginson stepped down as Chairman of Poundland Group Plc statements, half-yearly financial report and interim following the announcement of his appointment as Deputy Chairman management statements: and Chairman Elect of the Company in July 2014.
Approval of changes to the Groups capital structure, Following the announcement that Dalton Philips would step down as external financial reports, major expenditure: and CEO on 16 February 2015, it was also announced that Trevor Strain Membership of the Board on recommendation of would chair the Management Board and assume Daltons executive theNomination Committee.
responsibilities with Andrew Higginson, spending more time in the 1 business in the interim period until the new CEO was appointed.
All Non-Executive Directors are independent.
David Potts will join the Board as CEO on 16 March 2015.
3 D Philips stepped down from the Board on 16 February 2015 and Sir Ian Gibson retired inJanuary 2015.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 39 Board committees Effectiveness The decisions delegated by the Board to its Committees and the activities of those Committees during the financial year 2014 15 are described NonExecutive Directors within each Committees report below.
The Corporate governance The Non-Executive Directors bring a varied range of skills and compliance statement contains the terms of reference of the Committees experience to the Group.
Details of their experience outside the which have recently been updated in line with the guidance notes issued Groupareset out in their respective biographies on page 37. by ICSA in 2013 and to take into account changes agreed by the Board during the year.
The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors, including theNon-Executive Chairman, remain independent according to Senior Independent Director thedenition contained in the Code.
The criteria used to determine Philip Cox has been the Boards Senior Independent Director since May independence are set out in the Corporate governance compliance 2013.
Philip has been a Non-Executive Director of Morrisons since April statement, which can be found in the investor relations section of the 2009 and has acquired extensive knowledge of the Groups business and Groups website, www.
The Senior Independent Director provides shareholders with an alternative contact to the Chairman, the CEO and the CFO.
The minimum time commitment expected of the Non-Executive Directors is 12 days per year, together with attendance at the AGM, Board Board activities in 2014 15 away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
The Board is The Boards focus in this financial year was: satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Group and contributes to the governance review of results and forecasts and approval of andoperations of the Group.
This has been confirmed by the Board : effectiveness evaluation referred to below.
the conduct of the business in accordance with its values: The Chairman arranges regular discussions between all the review of the development of the online business and Non-Executive Directors including himself as a group.
During the conveniencestores: year, the Non-Executive Directors met a number of times without review of the recommendation from the Nomination Committee management present to discuss the performance of the business inrespect of the appointment of Andrew Higginson: andmanagement, and the wider economic, commercial and social environment in which the Group operates.
review of the performance of the CEO and the decision to search fora successor: Board evaluation review of the governance structure and activities of the subcommittees of the Board: The Board arranges for its own performance, and that of its committees and Directors, to be reviewed annually.
This is usually facilitated by an review of the annual business plan and monthly updates from the external agency every three years with the most recent external review Management Board regarding its delivery: and taking place last year.
review of the 2015 16 budget and commercial plans regarding our core supermarkets, including productivity savings required to invest In 2014 15, the Boards effectiveness, and that of its committees, in the core offer.
was the subject of an internal review led by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Attendance at meetings The evaluation required each member of the Board to complete a Board Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR comprehensive questionnaire covering the following key areas: 1 Andrew Higginson 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 overall Board and committee effectiveness: Trevor Strain 11 11 the work of the Board, including the approach to control, risk, strategy Philip Cox 11 11 7 7 6 6 7 7 and transactions, and the regulatory environment: Richard Gillingwater 11 11 7 7 5 6 6 7 4 5 organisation and conduct of Board meetings: Penny Hughes 11 11 7 7 6 6 7 7 5 5 timing and content of Board papers: Johanna Waterous 11 11 7 7 6 6 7 7 5 5 maximising its use of time: 2 Dalton Philips 11 11 7 7 5 5 Board and senior management succession: 3 Sir Ian Gibson 11 11 7 7 6 6 5 5 training and awareness: 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2014.
Appointed to the CCR Committee effectiveness of advisers: and inNovember2014, the Nomination Committee in December 2014 and to the  in January 2015. overall Director performance.
2 Dalton Philips stepped down as CEO on 16 February 2015.
3 Responses were collated by the Company Secretary and discussed Sir Ian Gibson retired from all Boards and Committees on 22 January 2015. withthe Chairman.
The review concluded that the Board operates welland cohesively.
The agreement to move to fewer Board meetings but more two day meetings as recommended last year will come into full effect in 2015 16 and it was acknowledged that this should provide more opportunity for site visits Company and competitor and spending time with customers to understand their views.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Governance 40 Corporate governance report continued The length and tone of Board papers will also be the subject of focus Management Board during 2015 16 with a view to further improvement and ensuring that papers provide insightful and quality data in a concise manner.
1 Members Dalton Philips, Trevor Strain, Mark Amsden, Neal Austin, Nick Collard, Martyn Fletcher, Mark The performance of the Chairman is evaluated annually by the Directors.
Harrison, Martyn Jones, Emily Lawson, Casper Appraisals of the Non-Executive Directors performance are conducted 2 Meijer, Gordon Mowat, Nigel Robertson by the Chairman following discussion with Board members.
Key objectives Implementation of strategy and actions in respect Executive Directors are included in the Groups performance appraisal of financial planning and performance: day-to-day process, which includes setting clear and measurable objectives and management of operations.
reviewing performance against those objectives on a bi-annual basis.
Responsibilities Development and implementation of strategy: The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing the performance of the CEO, who in turn Oversight of: isresponsible for monitoring the performance of the CFO.
financial performance, reporting and control: Membership risk management: and operational improvement programmes: As described earlier in this report, the Board has been strengthened by Review and supervision of operational activities: the appointment of Andrew Higginson as Chairman and, as announced on 25 February 2015, the appointment of David Potts as CEO who Making recommendations to the Board in respect of: further enhances the relevant experience and skills on the Board.
budgets and long term plans: The Nomination Committee considers that the Board and Management dividend levels: Board contain the skills and experience necessary in light of the Groups ad-hoc events: and current activities and strategic direction.
Succession planning for senior management.
Reelection of Directors 1 Dalton Philips stepped down as CEO on 16 February 2015.
All the Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be 2 Appointed October 2014 as replacement for Terry Hartwell.
heldon 4 June 2015, with the exception of Richard Gillingwater who willstep down at the AGM.
After reviewing the outcome of performance Management Board activities in 2014 15 evaluation, the Board confirms that the contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM in June 2015 The Management Boards focus in this financial year was: continue to be effective and that the Company should support their implementation of the price investment strategy: re-election.
launch of the Match & More card: Directors interests up-streaming of manufacturing capabilities: The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the streamlining and modernisation of the management structure Company and their immediate families in the shares of the Company, in stores: along with share options, are contained in the Directors remuneration targeted implementation of the food online offer into different regions: report set out on pages 47 to 58.
At no time during the year did any of the continuing roll out of M local convenience stores network including theDirectors have a material interest in any significant contract with acquisition of appropriate sites: theCompany or any of its subsidiaries.
oversight of major systems development including its roll out into stores: new in-store standard KPIs: response to trading results via implementation and adaptation ofthecommercial strategy, including promotional strategy: periodic review of performance against strategic objectives: review of the Groups weekly and periodic trading results and market conditions: determination of principal risks for the Group: new leadership framework: review of customer proposition and relaunch of Morrisons ownbrand products: approval of capital budgets: enhanced colleague engagement process and review colleague engagement scores: and the conduct and management of the business in accordance withits values.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 41 A Transformation Steering Committee was set up during the year to conducted a full tender of external audit service and recommended ensure that the right level of focus is placed on delivering transformation the appointment of PwC described in more detail on page 44 : and projects in the business.
All operational members of the Management discussed the new Governance Code and reporting requirements.
Board are members of the Transformation Steering Committee.
In respect of financial reports, the Committees focus was: The main purposes of the Committee are: the accounting judgements made by management that could have to sign off all strategic business cases which underpin transformation: asignicant effect on the Groups financial results: to agree timing of implementation: and oversight of IT changes affecting financial systems and controls: to manage change coherently around the customer experience.
the clarity of disclosure of financial information: and whether the Annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Audit Committee report understandable the Directors statement on this can be found Members onpage 61 of this Annual report.
Philip Cox Chair, Richard Gillingwater, PennyHughes, Johanna Waterous Key objectives Effective governance of financial reporting, internal Financial reporting matters controls and risk management systems: review of significant accounting judgements, assumptions The Audit Committee discussed the following financial and estimates: management of the relationship and reportingmatters: appointment of the external auditor: monitoring and Commercial income review of the effectiveness of the Groups Risk and Internal Audit function.
Commercial income remains an area of focus for the Audit Committee.
Responsibilities The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the Commercial income is inconsistently dened.
It is a deduction from the responsibility for reviewing on its behalf and making cost of purchase and it is recognised in accordance with signed supplier recommendations to the Board as to: agreements.
Subjectivity and judgement is therefore minimised.
the integrity of financial reports, including reviewing significant financial reporting issues and This is an area which is currently not directly covered by accounting considering how these issues have been addressed: standards and there is no prescriptive disclosure best practice.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC recently urged the Boards of whether the Annual report is fair, balanced retailers and suppliers to provide greater clarity in this area.
and understandable: the effectiveness of the Groups internal control It is important to the Board that the Group takes the initiative and andrisk management system: brings clarity and transparency to commercial income and so is providing increased disclosure on controls, on the quantum earned in the effectiveness of the Risk and Internal Audit the income statement and the balance sheet position.
Despite most of function: and this income being subject to no or little subjectivity or judgement we the independence and appointment of the external have chosen to provide full disclosure see note 1.6 in the auditor and approval of their fees.
Our denition of commercial income includes marketing and Audit Committee Chairman advertising funding and volume based rebates.
Some commentators The Board is satisfied that Philip Cox has recent and relevant financial include promotional funding in commercial income.
We consider such experience appropriate to his position as Chairman of the Audit funding as a mechanical deduction from the purchase cost, triggered Committee.
Philip is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants immediately by Morrisons realising a sale, or a purchase, with no in England and Wales and has previously held a number of senior judgement or subjectivity applied.
We do not therefore include finance positions including Chief Financial Officer of International promotional funding in our denition of commercial income.
In addition to disclosing the quantum of commercial income in the Audit Committee activities in 2014 15 income statement, we have also disclosed the quantum of commercial income included in debtors and accrued commercial income at the During the year the Committee has: balance sheet date see notes 5.3 and 5.4 in the financial statements.
considered the appropriateness of the Groups Annual report and By its nature a proportion of commercial income will only become financial statements and Half-yearly report: billable to suppliers at or near the reporting period end.
However we expect the majority of commercial income outstanding at 1 February reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls and the work of the 2015 to be collected by the end of the first quarter of the new Risk and Internal Audit function, including approval of the Internal nancialyear.
Audit plan and discussion on key risks described in more detail on pages 30 to 33 : In considering the appropriateness of commercial income recognised considered systems design, implementation and related project in the year and the financial position at the year end, the Committee has management in respect of changes to the Groups financial reporting reviewed in detail reports from management outlining the accounting systems and processes: judgements and the control environment.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Governance 42 Corporate governance report continued In reviewing the assumptions made by management, the Audit Controls in operation for promotional funding Committee challenged and understood the key assumptions and and commercial income judgements including: 1.
Periodic review of control KPIs by Senior Management which is focused on conrming promotional funding and commercial income commercial income accrued but not invoiced at half year and has been recognised appropriately in line with policy.
The review yearend:and includes an assessment of the following: recoverability of outstanding invoices.
accrued income that has not been invoiced following the end The Audit Committee considered the effectiveness of the operation of of a promotional period: key controls as set out below, through review of managements work and ageing prole of invoices raised that are outstanding from that of Internal Audit.
The Committee considered the frequency of the suppliers:and operation of controls, the size of samples and challenged management credit notes raised after the period end.
onhow controls could be further improved.
Segregation of duties between trading teams who negotiate The controls in operation provide assurance over: with suppliers and the finance function that approve the recognition completeness of supplier agreement documentation: of income.
accuracy of income recognition in line with agreed policies and 3.
All accrued amounts above set thresholds are checked to supplier thesupplier agreements: and documentation.
Sample compliance checks are performed for invoices over set thresholds plus an additional random sample.
These checks include: ensuring compliance with supplier terms and agreements: and reviewing the timing of invoicing following completion of a promotional period.
Internal Audit performs a review of a sample of supplier agreements, checking the appropriateness of recognition.
Their focus is on key areas of judgement including multi-year contracts and accrued income which has not yet been invoiced.
The scope of work includes checking that income is recognised in line with the supplier agreement.
Promotional funding specic controls Type of deduction Description Specic process and controls Promotional Customer Investment by Agreed supplier terms are recorded on systems which generate accruals and recognise funding way of promotions, partially the funding mechanically based on these terms and sales volume data fed from the till funded by suppliers for system.
There is no judgement or estimation involved.
specic products, or multiThe system also automatically generates invoices to suppliers each week, or at the end purchases, such as buy one ofa promotional cycle.
Commercial income specic controls by type of income Type of deduction Description Specic process and controls Marketing and Examples include income in All supplier agreements are logged once a contract is signed.
The details recorded advertising respect of in-store marketing include the agreed activity, timeframe, performance criteria and amounts.
funding and point of sale, as well as Income is then only recognised and invoiced conditional on satisfying specified funding for advertising.
Volumebased Income driven by achieving Agreed supplier terms are recorded in systems which generate accruals and recognise rebates volume targets set by the commercial income automatically based on these terms.
Details entered into the system supplier for specic products are validated by an independent team.
Income is recognised through the year based on forecasts for expected sales or purchase volumes, informed by current performance, trends, and the terms of the supplier agreement.
Income is invoiced throughout the year in accordance with the specic supplier terms.
Supplier conrmations are obtained half-yearly, including at year end, to confirm volume performance and therefore that the appropriate level of rebate is being accrued.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 43 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible The policies and procedures for stock accounting, reporting and assets and onerous property commitments provisioning have been reviewed by the Audit Committee as part of the annual policy review which includes external benchmarking and The Group has a policy of assessing impairment on an annual basis, sensitivity analysis where appropriate.
Changes to stock count orwhere changes in circumstances result in a risk of impairment.
procedures, including the appointment of independent third party counters, have been implemented in the year.
The Committee receives The impairment review includes non-financial assets, principally the updates on stock count results throughout the year.
Groups property portfolio, IT assets not in use and goodwill.
Internal control and risk management There are a number of assumptions used in the impairment reviews including discount rates, growth rates and the market value of The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is effectively the properties.
Risks are reviewed by the Management Board for all functions annually and results are brought to the Board.
The Group considers that structural changes in the market have On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee has responsibility for intensied in the year.
This coupled with others in the sector cutting reviewing the effectiveness of internal control including financial, space forecasts and capital spending has led to a further decline in the operational and compliance controls.
In order to do this, as a matter market value of supermarkets.
This has resulted in an additional ofcourse in any one year, the Committee: impairment charge of 1,273m being recognised this year against trading stores and onerous leases.
receives and agrees appropriate actions in response to regular reports from the Risk and Internal Audit function on: Further details of the assumptions used are set out on page 89. the status of internal control and risk management Management has presented a number of papers to the Audit Committee systems across the Group: setting out the judgements and assumptions underpinning the the departments findings, annual plan and the resources impairment reviews.
The Committee has understood managements available to it to perform its work: and view on all the assumptions including the market valuations of the stores.
It has also reviewed the methodology and approach to obtaining forecast any concerns expressed by colleagues about possible store cash ows, which remain consistent with the prior year.
malpractice or wrongdoing: reviews financial whistle-blowing reports from colleagues: In addition, for leasehold arrangements where the expected future benets from a store are less than the future lease commitment, the reviews the external auditors management letters on internal Committee has reviewed the judgements required in recognising an financial control: onerous lease provision.
seeks reports from senior management on the effectiveness of the management of key risk areas: and The Audit Committee discussed the sensitivity of key assumptions along with their impact on the impairment and onerous lease provision charge monitors the adequacy and timeliness of managements response in the year.
The Committee challenged the assumptions and is satisfied to identied audit issues.
The main features of the Groups internal control and risk management IT systems systems relating to the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting, including the process for preparing consolidated accounts, are: The Group is in the process of upgrading and developing its core recruitment of suitably qualied and experienced finance colleagues: systems, the cost of which is a material element of capital expenditure forthe current year.
These upgrades have enabled a number of the segregation of duties, clear lines of accountability and delegation Groups plans to be executed during the year including the launch of authority: oftheMatch&More card and other promotional tools.
policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparation of financial information, and capital expenditure: As well as the risk of impairment considered above the Committee has considered the nature of costs being capitalised to ensure they are a robust period end review process including review and commentary capitalin nature.
It has also regularly reviewed progress against system from process owners: implementation plans which has included engaging external consultants a tiered review process for external financial reports involving internal to give the Committee independent assurance.
The Committee is stakeholders from relevant areas of the business: satisfied that costs have been capitalised in line with the Groups policy.
information and data security policies and procedures: and Stock self certication by each section of the business.
Stock remains a material balance in the Groups financial statements.
The Audit Committee has undertaken a review of effectiveness of It is held in multiple locations and a system upgrade is in the process internal control areas during the financial year.
No significant failings of of being implemented to consolidate the legacy stock systems.
internal control were identied during these reviews, limited weaknesses Judgement is required in determining provisions for shrinkage and were identied, none of which are significant.
Clear action plans are in other stock provisioning.
place to address the weaknesses and are captured as part of functional risk registers with dened management responsibility.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Governance 44 Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of The Committee holds meetings with the auditor without management the Groups systems of internal control during the financial year and present.
The purpose of these meetings is to understand the auditors up to the date of the report.
In accordance with the requirements of the views on the control and governance environment and managements revised Turnbull guidance on Internal Control published by the FRC, it effectiveness within it.
To full its responsibilities in respect of the confirms that no significant failings of internal control were identied in independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, the the review for 2014 15.
Committee reviewed: External audit tender the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of work of the external auditor as set out in the engagement letter: As noted in last years report, following the FRC recommendation to put the audit work plan for the Group: the external audit out to tender at least every ten years, the Audit the detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion of any Committee conducted a tender process for the external audit majorissues that arose during the audit: appointment during 2014 15. the letter from the external auditor conrming its independence The tender process was initiated in January 2014 and concluded in April andobjectivity: and 2014.
The Audit Committee recommended the appointment of PwC as the audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided external auditor.
The Board accepted this recommendation and PwC during2014 15. were formally appointed at the 2014 AGM.
In the period from the start of the year to the AGM, KPMG provided The audit tender team was created and led by the Chair of the Audit non-audit work, primarily to provide the Board with independent Committee and comprised the Group CFO, Director of Risk and Internal assurance in respect of IT systems replacement.
Prior to their Audit, the Group Financial Controller and Procurement.
Six rms were appointment as auditor PwC provided a number of non-audit services, invited to tender, two of which were mid-tier audit rms.
Four audit rms including advisory services to the Remuneration Committee.
PwC reached the final stage of the tender process.
resigned from this post on appointment as statutory auditors but have In arriving at the short-list for the final stage the process involved: continued to provide non-audit services.
In the year the ratio of audit to meetings with and presentations to senior finance, IT and procurement non-audit services was 1:0.5, see note 1.6 in the Annual report.
colleagues, and formal responses to the Request For Proposal RFP.
The Committee believes that this non-audit activity carried out by the The feedback from the meetings as well as the RFP responses were statutory auditors is subject to safeguards to avoid a threat to the auditors reviewed in detail by the audit tender team and summarised for the independence or objectivity.
These safeguards comprise separate teams Audit Committee.
for audit versus non-audit work.
The audit tender team plus one of the NEDs held meetings with each of The Board has a policy on the engagement of the external auditor the short-listed rms during which the rms presented their proposed tosupply non-audit services, which is available in the Corporate audit approach.
This was followed by a question and answer session, governance compliance statement set out in the investor relations including questions on matters of accounting.
Following each meeting sectionof the Groups website at www.
the Group discussed the presentation both in content and team, the view presented, answers to questions and the strengths and weaknesses of Going concern each team.
At the end of all of the meetings the audit tender team had anextensive debate about all of the rms that had been shortlisted.
The Directors assessment of the Group and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern is based on cash ow forecasts for the Group The summary of these assessments was presented to the Audit and the committed borrowing and debt facilities of the Group.
These Committee, who after further discussion felt that PwC had shown a forecasts include consideration of future trading performance, working greater understanding of Morrisons and through their proposed audit capital requirements, retail market conditions and the wider economy.
approach would be able to drive greater challenge of processes and controls, which would benefit the Group.
The Group remains able to borrow cash at competitive rates, as evidenced by the issue of a 300m bond in July 2014 and the The Committee would like to thank all of the rms that participated and renancing of the 1.35bn revolving credit facility in September specically to KPMG for their contribution to the Group over the years.
The Group has negotiated, and has available to it, committed, Effectiveness and independence of the external auditor competitive facilities that will meet the Groups needs in the short andmedium term.
Due to the change in auditor during the year, the Committee has The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been set considered the effectiveness of both KMPG and PwC for the periods in outon pages 32 to 33, along with how the Directors mitigate these risks which they were auditor.
In making this assessment the Audit Committee inthe current economic climate.
After reviewing the Groups financial has considered the information presented by the auditors, management forecasts, the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group responses to the auditors findings, including any adjustments and the have adequate financial resources available to continue in operational level of non-audit fees.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the going concern basis is adopted in the preparation of these financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 45 Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Remuneration Committee report CCR Committee The report from the Remuneration Committee is contained 1 Members Penny Hughes Chair, Andrew Higginson, in the Directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 58.
2 DaltonPhilips, Mark Amsden, Richard Gillingwater, Martyn Jones, Johanna Waterous Nomination Committee report Key objectives Development and implementation of the 1 2 Members Groups policies on corporate compliance and Andrew Higginson Chair, Dalton Philips, corporate responsibility.
Reviewing and ensuring PhilipCox, Penny Hughes, Richard Gillingwater, compliance with these policies and ethical and Johanna Waterous governance standards.
Key objectives Advice to the Board on Board and senior Responsibilities Oversight that the business is doing the right thing management appointments and succession inareas of corporate responsibility including: planning: monitoring of the composition of the Boardand its committees.
ethical trading: Responsibilities Evaluating the current and required mixture food safety: of skills and experience on the Board: and health and safety: Sourcing and selecting candidates.
environmental and competition compliance: 1 Appointed December 2014.
GSCOP: and 2 D Philips stepped down from the Board and its Committees on 16 February 2015. governance and reputation.
Generally ensuring that the Company is acting Nomination Committees activities in 2013 14 as a good corporate citizen.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession planning 2 D Philips stepped down from the Board and its committees on 16 February 2015. andthe recommendation of Director appointments to the Board.
The Committee considers the size and composition of the Board on an CCR activities in 2013 14 ongoing basis.
The Committee will consider the skills of outgoing and remaining Board members to assess any gaps and develop a candidate The Committees focus in this financial year was a review of: prole.
The Board uses external search consultancies to source suitable cyber and IT security risk: candidates.
The Committee recommends appointments on merit against the criteria applied in developing the candidate prole and taking into health and safety incidents and actions taken and account the mix of skills, experience and diversity on the Board.
progress of health and safety initiatives: energy strategy and carbon reduction measures: Appointment of Chairman and Chairman Elect Following the announcement by Sir Ian Gibson of his intention to ethical trading: retirein 2015, the Nomination Committee appointed a sub-committee food safety and improvements: comprising Philip Cox, Richard Gillingwater, Penny Hughes, food integrity and testing: JohannaWaterous and Dalton Philips, with responsibility for sourcing and selecting his successor.
The sub-committee used an external search GSCOP compliance including training and results agency, MWM Consulting, in identifying a short list of candidates with of internal reviews: and the requisite skills and experience for the role.
The sub-committee non-financial whistle-blowing reports.
interviewed each of the candidates shortlisted and recommended the appointment of Andrew Higginson to the Nomination Committee and the Board.
His appointment was announced on 29 July 2014.
Andrew stepped down as Chairman of Poundland Group Plc in order to manage his other time commitments outside Morrisons and thereby ensure he isable to devote an appropriate amount of time in fullling his current role and future role as Chairman of the Company.
Andrew succeeded SirIanGibson as Chairman in January 2015.
MWM Consulting is also used by the Company in the search and selection process for other senior hires.
This agency has no connection tothe Group other than its provision of recruitment services.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Governance 46 Corporate governance report continued Induction Relations with shareholders All Directors are provided with a comprehensive, formal and tailored The Board is committed to communicating our strategy to analysts, induction to the business.
investors and shareholders on a regular basis through a Prior to his appointment to the Board in October 2014, planned programme.
AndrewHigginson spent a month in the business to commence theinduction programme which continued following his formal The Investor Relations programme includes: appointment.
The programme was designed to provide Andrew with a formal presentations of full and half year results: comprehensive introduction to the business and included the following: interim management statements: review of Board Committee minutes and supporting papers for regular meetings between institutional investors, the CEO, the CFO recent meetings: and the Investor Relations team in the UK and the US following the meeting with the Company Secretary to provide a brieng on Board fulland half year results: Committee processes and procedures and governance structure: regular meetings between the Chairman and major shareholders to store and other site visits: and discuss any aspect of the Group or its governance arrangements: meetings with senior management.
attending key investor conferences: CEO succession communication between the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and major shareholders on remuneration policy and Following the decision to search for a new CEO, the Committee significant changes in remuneration arrangements: discussed and approved a job role and appointed Ridgeway Partners to responding to enquiries from shareholders and analysts through assist in identifying a long list of candidates with the requisite skills and theInvestor Relations team: and experience for the role.
dedicated shareholder and investor sections on the website.
After an extensive and international search, four candidates were shortlisted and interviewed by the Board resulting in the appointment In addition, the Investor Relations team provides a regular update to the ofDavid Potts who will join the Board as CEO on 16 March 2015.
Board and feedback from meetings held between executive management and institutional shareholders.
The Groups brokers seek independent Diversity feedback from analysts and investors following the full and half year results meetings which is reported to the Board.
Diversity has been a particular area of focus during 2014 15.
The Board recognises the benefits of a diverse colleague base across the Group and is Matters dealt with elsewhere in the Strategic report supportive of initiatives within the business to improve diversity at all levels.
The way that the Group generates value and the Boards strategy for The Company sought to increase female representation in the senior delivering the Groups objectives are described in the Business model management group SMG to at least 30% by the end of 2014.
Although onpages 6 to 7, and the Strategy section on pages 10 to 15. positive progress has been made, this target has not yet been achieved and the Board recognises that more work is needed in this area.
Annual General Meeting Recruitment and promotion policies have been reviewed with a view to attracting candidates with a wide range of backgrounds and experience All Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors attend the AGM and ensuring that the best individual for the role is appointed.
Specic unless unable to do so due to circumstances outside of their control.
targets have not been set as it is considered that they may drive the Notice of the 2015 AGM of the Company is to be sent to shareholders wrong behaviours.
However, guidelines are in place to ensure that the with an accompanying letter from the Chairman.
The AGM will be held long list for any particular vacancy at management level includes a at the Companys headquarters at Gain Lane in Bradford on 4 June 2015. balanced prole of candidates.
Format of the meeting: Progress on the diversity agenda is measured through regular talent a summary presentation of results is provided before the Chairman reviews.
Although there is particular focus on the SMG, these reviews deals with the formal business: also consider the ethnicity, gender, age and length of service mix lower down the organisation.
all shareholders present can question the Chairman, Chairmen oftheCommittees and the Board during the meeting and At the end of the 2014 15 financial year the Board included two women informallyafterwards: members, 28% of its total composition.
The Boards policy is that female representation should be maintained at not less than 20% and aspires the Board encourages participation of individual investors at the that this should be higher than 30%.
This policy will continue to be AGM:and considered as part of the Nomination Committees regular review following the meeting, details of the voting on the resolutions will oftheBoards composition and skills.
bemade available on the website www.
com Investor-centre generalmeetings Diversity will continue to be a key topic on the Nomination Committee agenda in 2015 16.
The Directors recommend shareholders vote in favour of each resolution, Other areas of focus believing them to be in the best interests of the Group.
Shareholders willbe notied of the availability of the Annual report and financial The Committee also spent time reviewing succession planning for both statements on the website unless they have elected to receive a the Board and Management Board as well as of the talent pool for levels printedversion.
