Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Strategic report 22 Relationships Our colleagues and partners us up to two hours earlier and two hours later than Our people ourprevious opening hours.
Changes to working Awards We continue to focus on getting the right people patterns were made on a purely voluntary basis with inthe right place at the right time to support our colleagues offering to change their shifts to support 2014 15 customers needs and to deliver our strategy.
We areworking to ensure that our colleagues are Store management teams really engaged in working for Morrisons, and that We are simplifying accountability and ensuring ourleaders are the best they can be.
We will make decisions are taken at the right level in stores by sure that all our colleagues are absolutely clear on changing the store management structure, allowing what agreat job looks like at Morrisons, so that every us to better serve our customers and operate more oneofour team is completely focused on delivering efficiently.
We have consulted with our colleagues on for customers.
the structure itself and on the restructure process, and Emily Lawson, Group Human Resources Director will have completed the restructure in all 514 of our supermarket stores by Spring 2015.
A comprehensive How are our colleagues supporting training programme is in place to support the store ourstrategy?
leadership team in their new roles including topics such as leading change and engaging leadership.
Match & More As part of launching our new Match & More card, we Continuous improvement invested time to train Checkout Operators, Customer In our manufacturing division we have invested Services Assistants, petrol station teams and those incontinuous improvement methods by training stepping into temporary front of house Ambassador allmanagers in problem solving techniques, and roles.
As a result, colleagues have been able to over200 colleagues are involved in the Business condently and proactively explain our new Improvement Techniques Apprenticeship scheme, Match&More proposition to our customers.
which has delivered significant efficiency gains across our sites.
Opening hours As part of our plans to make our stores easy to shop We have also introduced a structured and we have increased our opening hours in 246 stores.
standardised approach to site meetings, Our customers told us that they wanted to shop with whichhasimproved the quality of daily .
Highlights Employee People progressing from the Percentage of colleagues Colleague Engagement 1 stability shop oor to more senior whoparticipated in the Index: How engaged positions in 2014 15 engagement surveys are colleagues?
90.4% 1,650 79% 75% 2014: 88.05% 2014: 1,292 2014: 93% 2014: 72.9% 1 Total number of active colleagues with one or more years service divided by the total number of active colleagues one year earlier.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 23 How have we supported our colleagues Sponsored degrees 17 colleagues started studying to help create value during the year?
for their sponsored degree with Bradford University School of Management, our third cohort of the Engagement programme, and we continue to deliver our Foundation During 2014 15 weve focused on making a sustained Degrees to colleagues within retail, logistics and change from doing engagement to being engaging.
supply chain through our university partners.
Three key initiatives have underpinned our Future business leaders this year we have engagement plans: launched our refreshed Future Business Leaders Programme for colleagues making the transition 1.
Were building the skills of our leaders.
The programme is have already started our new leadership programme, designed to build our internal senior succession which includes training on managing change, as pipeline, and includes a placement within a well as engaging leadership.
Were giving colleagues a stronger voice.
Weve Colleague retention made it much easier for our colleagues to share 90.4% of our colleagues have been with us for more than their feedback via the engagement survey, a a year, a rise of around 2% versus last year.
Set against colleague Facebook page and an internal social our overall headcount reduction of 5.3%, this media platform for colleagues.
demonstrates our ongoing commitment to retain 3.
From our annual experienced colleagues alongside new talent whilst climate survey we identied five action themes continuing our drive for a more cost effective and where we needed to take sustained, decisive action exible workforce.
These are sponsored by senior leaders.
Incentives Colleague training We offer a highly attractive benefits package, including During the year we invested in a new training enhanced maternity packages, store discount cards, a facilityto support central functions such as trading share in company profits and our annual long service and marketing.
Colleagues can also participate in the Company share save scheme.
Our training approaches build both specic technical skills required to do the job, and broader leadership We will further strengthen our benets offering with skills.
Our training this year included the following: the introduction of exible benets such as discounted childcare vouchers in early 2015 16, with additional Mastercraft our annual competition, which tests benefits being made available to colleagues later the specialist knowledge and practical skills of inthe year.
colleagues, was bigger and better this year.
The competition included colleagues from our Wellness and health enhancement eight craft trades butchers, bakers, shmongers, We have introduced support to identify and help cheesemongers, wine advisers, orists, cake shop those colleagues most at risk of long term health issues and produce.
such as mental health and musculoskeletal conditions, Craft qualications 187 colleagues completed and have reviewed and revised our health surveillance aLevel 2 Craft Apprenticeship in Butchery and programme to ensure colleagues are monitored via Bakery which includes visits to our abattoir for our the latest health screening technology.
In addition this butchery apprentices.
In total over 800 colleagues year we initiated a new approach to helping colleagues completed apprenticeships last year.
build resilience, a much-requested area of support from colleagues.
e-Learning in stores and at home weve set up Below: brand new e-learning zones in every store.
Weve Human rights and diversity Mastercraft competition also given colleagues access to some training We pride ourselves on being a diverse organisation.
Celebrates colleagues achievements modules from their own devices so they can learn We respect the human rights of all individuals as when and where they want to.
wellas the communities in which we work and are Animal welfare colleagues at our Colne, Spalding committed to providing a workplace free from and Turriff abattoirs became the first in England to harassment and offering equal opportunities for be awarded the new Welfare of Animals at the Time promotion and advancement.
During 2014 15, of Killing WATOK qualication.
Morrisons employed 53,272 men and 66,506 women.
In addition, 101 of our senior managers and five of Talent development ourBoard Directors were men, while 33 of our senior We continue to build our talent pipeline from within, managers and two of our Board Directors were women.
through a variety of programmes accessible at all levels of the business.
This year we have continued work to ensure our workforce is representative of the communities we Graduates this year we recruited 72 graduates and serve.
We have agreed a three year diversity strategy have 136 graduate trainees completing programmes which operates across all our talent activities, and across the organisation.
willfocus on addressing the identied gaps in our Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Strategic report 24 Relationships Our colleagues and partners continued pipeline, will ensure a balanced slate for all senior We also understand the importance of relationships, promotion and hiring decisions, and adopt a standard, for smaller suppliers, where we have focused on externally veried assessment process so that our having simpler, clearer processes.
We are working talent is assessed on an unbiased basis.
onsharing corporate and events calendars, and the enhanced promotional opportunities through our ground breaking Match & More scheme, to enable Our suppliers more efficient and productive arrangements withsuppliers.
Our love of food means we search the globe to source the best quality produce for our customers.
We have We work with our trading partners to ensure mutual Above: worked hard to shorten the supply chain to ensure our commercial growth and responsible and fair trading Our farming programme food reaches our shelves in the freshest possible terms, and in accordance with the applicable We run our own farming programme condition.
For example we are currently making a regulations including the Grocery Supply Code investing 2m into the research major investment in our sh processing facility at of Practice.
anddevelopment of sustainable Grimsby which will enable us to further extend British farming.
The Groceries Supply Code of Practice product shelf life by 24 hours.
The Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP However we also never forget we are British.
100% theCode applies to all grocery retailers with an ofour Morrisons branded fresh beef, lamb, pork, annual turnover in excess of 1bn.
Essentially the chicken, milk and eggs, and many of our fresh fruit Code creates certain specic rights and obligations and vegetables, are sourced in the UK.
As a leading that regulate our trading relationship with suppliers.
fresh food manufacturer and a major British retailer We actively engage with the relevant regulatory we work with local farmers to create shorter, more bodies, the Office of the Groceries Code Adjudicator efficient supply chains.
This ensures greater control GCA and the Competition & Markets Authority over supply chain traceability, quantity and quality, CMA, to build best practice in relation to the Code.
Buying British also reduces food Over the course of the year we provided information miles, adds to the national economy, strengthens for both the GCA and CMA on a range of areas agricultural industries and supports our ofinterest across the sector including contract ruralcommunities.
formation, deliveries into our depots, forecasting British farming and its long term viability is essential andsupplier charges.
To help ensure it remains competitive Alongside other retailers, we agreed with the GCA we run our own farming programme, investing 2m tocreate a new reciprocal policy on profit recovery into the research and development of sustainable charges to help address industry-wide concerns over British farming.
historic claims for income made by retailers and Whilst the produce we supply must be right for suppliers.
This was positively received by the GCA customers today, we must also do this in a way which and promoted at the GCAs first annual conference protects the supply for future generations.
We work inJune 2014. closely with our suppliers to encourage and promote Specically related to Morrisons, the GCA requested responsible practices throughout the supply chain details for charges requested of suppliers who were helping to ensure sustainable supply.
offered multi-channel sales in stores, online and We actively listen to our suppliers and we are a convenience.
The GCA published a case study on the participant in the Advantage survey, a comprehensive review which, in relation to the substantive issue of and independent survey of over 400 suppliers views multi-channel participation, concluded that Morrisons on the status of their relationship with major grocery was not in breach of the Code Part 9. retailers in the UK.
We take actions based on We undertook an enhanced annual training supplierfeedback.
programme for all supplier-facing colleagues.
This We continue to focus on simplifying our payment involved a bespoke face to face presentation for all processes and have successfully launched a buyers and relevant trading colleagues and a follow competitive supply chain nancing option during up e-learning module.
We also undertook a further theyear.
We are pleased with the take-up which has detailed review of relevant processes utilising our exceeded our expectations.
Actions were identied for continued process improvement including the Our M Partner scheme, which was introduced in establishment of an additional compliance and 2013, continues to develop.
We have partnered with monitoring function within the trading division.
more than 20 of our largest suppliers.
We are working with them to improve our customer proposition Enquiries from suppliers on Code related matters through shared insight, maximising the efficiency were dealt with in accordance with the regulations.
inour supply chains and promoting more regular Any matter not resolved directly is escalated to the dialogue at all levels of our respective organisations.
relevant Category Director and, if requested, to our Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 25 Reducing emissions appointed Code Compliance Officer CCO.
Additional guidance and advice is provided by Group GHG Emissions for year ending 31 December theGroups legal function.
2005 2014 2015 Change Emission Baseline Prior Current vs. During 2014 15 we have successfully worked with source Year Year Year Baseline suppliers to resolve the majority of complaints that Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities have arisen with reference to the provisions of the Natural Gas 102,470 148,122 146,911 43.4% Code.
In summary 18 new complaints were made by suppliers and then notied to our CCO.
In total, 14 of Haulage 139,847 97,294 109,990 21.3% those were withdrawn or resolved directly with the Business Miles 4,511 4,217 3,643 19.2% relevant supplier during the course of the year.
Fugitive Emissions Routine reports and updates are provided to our Refrigerant 455,929 190,793 105,173 76.9% Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee Energy purchased for own use and Management Board on all aspects of the Code Electricity 798,596 697,309 756,595 5.3% including developments about its operation or Other regulation.
We formally report details of activity overthe year and specic complaints made by the Staff Travel 37,282 35,081 24,162 35.2% suppliers to our CCO to the GCA and the CMA at Waste 36,730 21,606 22,197 39.6% thenancial year end.
Members of our PLC Board Total 1,575,365 1,194,422 1,168,671 25.8% have also met with the GCA in recognition of the Intensity ratio: importance of achieving best practice in supplier e per kg CO2 relationships and maintaining level focus.
ft2 GIA 50.4 31.3 29.5 41.5% Contact details and further information can be found at www.
co. uk gscop Methodology The information above is taken from our Group Carbon Footprint, prepared by SKM Enviros on our behalf Our communities since 2007.
We have reported for the calendar year 1 January to 31 December for all years in order to Investing in a new and more significant presence in remain consistent with these reports.
postcodes across the UK, means we also have to work with and invest in the communities we serve.
We have used UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 version to prepare these Beyond protecting our local licence to operate, numbers, and the latest emissions factors from community engagement and investment engages DEFRA DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for existing and future customers, generates customer Company Reporting.
loyalty, colleague engagement, and trust in our brand.
In 2014 15, our award winning Lets Grow campaign The report includes all major sources of carbon emissions that engages schools with growing fruit and from the operation of the Groups supermarkets, vegetables distributed a record amount of vouchers manufacturing and distribution sites and operation tocustomers.
Some minor exemptions are: We also recognise the importance of community Subsidiaries and joint ventures engagement and have developed a programme Bos Bros Dutch vegetable packer that deals thatsupports local community charitable causes.
with energy locally: In 2014 15, we raised over 2.2m for our national Wm Morrison HK Ltd Hong Kong office charity partner Sue Ryder, our in-store Community that deals with energy locally: Champions also gave 200,000 hours to local The Morrisons Farm at Dumfries House Ltd community activity.
joint-venture that deals with energy locally: and Below: We are also working hard to ensure our recruitment Lets Grow Wm Morrison Bananas Ltd a subsidiary that process supports applicants from across the community Since the start of our Lets Grow is operated by the minority shareholders Global and can up-skill people once they are part of programme we have given away Ripeners Limited.
over20m of equipment Sites A number of distribution sites are operated by third Our shareholders parties who are responsible for the energy and carbon, including Dordon, Birstall, Feltham, Bury, Willand, See page 46 of our Governance section of the Annual Droitwich, Clipper, Northeet, Bathgate and Bunzl.
report for information on how we have engaged with our shareholders this year.
Sources Fuel oil only four sites have fuel oil, which is estimated to account for less than 0.1% of the totalfootprint.
