William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 53 Governance Financial statements Introduction and The Board of Directors Statement ofCompliance The Board William Hill has an effective Board whose role is to take collective responsibility for the The Board supports the comply or explain leadership and overall long-term success of the Company.
In order to support the approach set out in the UK Corporate Board in the discharge of its duties, there is a formal framework of committees of the Governance Code the Code, which Board.
This section sets out a summary of the key roles and responsibilities of each forms part of the Boards governance committee and how that committee supports the Board.
Further details on the roles and processes.
The Code is issued by the responsibilities of each committee and the work they have undertaken in the last year is Financial Reporting Council FRC and provided in the specic reports from each committee.
is available on the FRCs website at www.
uk and this report has been The Board Board prepared against the version of the Code Role: published in 2014, which is applicable for Responsible for the overall long-term success William Hills 2015 financial year.
Under the of William Hill, its strategic direction and setting Codes comply or explain approach, the Groups culture and values.
this permits listed companies some exibility and the opportunity to adopt governance arrangements otherwise than in accordance with the provisions Audit and Risk Remuneration Corporate Nomination Management Committee Responsibility Committee of the Code, where the Board feels this Committee CR Committee is appropriate for the good running of the business.
The Board can report full Role: Role: Role: Role: Advises the Sets the remuneration Sets the Groups CR Advises on compliance with the Code during the Board on financial policy for the policies and direction.
appointments to the whole of 2015, with the exception of Code statements, policies, Companys most Reviews how the Board and on Board provision C. 3.7 which recommends that internal controls and senior executives and Group achieves composition and FTSE 350 companies should put the risk management.
Agrees responsible behaviour succession planning.
external audit contract out to tender at least Sets the relationship awards and other on social and every ten years.
The report from the Audit with the external terms of remuneration ethical matters.
and Risk Management Committee explains the reasons why it has been decided not to have undertaken a tender on the external The Board of William Hill remains committed to high standards of corporate governance, audit and it also confirms that a tender which we consider to be vital to the effective management of the business and to will be undertaken by no later than 2019 maintaining the confidence of investors.
with the intention to appoint a different external auditor.
We have a dened framework of roles and responsibilities in place to support the Boards operation.
The Board is responsible for: development of strategy and major policies: reviewing performance: approving interim dividend payments and recommending final dividend payments: approval of the annual operating plan, five-year strategic plan, financial statements, and major acquisitions and disposals: the Groups corporate governance and corporate responsibility arrangements: and the appointment and removal of directors.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 54 The operation of the Board In addition to the information provided on How the Board operates a standing basis at most Board meetings, The Chairman, along with the executive directors and Company Secretary, has the Board holds annual or ad hoc events established Board processes designed to maximise its performance.
At the heart of this which provide an opportunity to focus is the ow of high-quality information on a regular basis which allows the Board to monitor specically on certain issues.
In particular: the performance of the Group across a wide range of issues and to make decisions and an annual Board Strategy Conference approvals affecting the strategy and operation of the Group.
The Board also receives BSC is held with the Board and timely information on current and potential future matters affecting the business and the selected senior management to environment in which it operates so that the longer-term prospects of the Group can be review and develop the strategy and considered in a strategic manner.
The BSC in 2015 confirmed the Companys Information ows to the Board strategic priorities and reviewed each part of the business.
A comprehensive Material policy decisions and matters Updates from across the business process is in place to track and follow reserved to the Board Company performance up on actions arising from the annual Corporate reporting BSC.
The Board also approves a Potential market opportunities medium-term five-year strategic plan Board Strategy Conference Market, regulatory, legal and corporate which reects the Companys strategy Away Board visits governance updates and the environment in which the Annual operating plan and five-year Investor Relations and other business operates: strategic plan stakeholders reports an annual visit is held where the Board visits one of the Groups business Standing regular items discussed by Annual ad hoc items discussed by locations away from the head ofce.
the Board the Board This gives the Board an opportunity to gain far greater insight on the particular business and also provides an excellent Board oversight, decision-making, approval, strategic planning opportunity for extended meetings and discussions with a broader range of the management team.
During 2015, the Board held a highly successful visit to the US: and each year the annual operating plan for the following financial year is discussed and approved by the Board.
This sets the targets and agrees the key operational matters for each part of the business for the subsequent year.
Performance against plan is reviewed during the year.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 55 Governance Financial statements The organisation and management of the Reporting packs are normally prepared full debates allow decisions to be taken by consensus although any dissenting Board is designed to support good debate by the executive directors and other and consideration of important matters.
senior managers and then distributed views would be minuted accordingly : Key aspects of the organisation of the by the Company Secretary to the Board the development of strategy is led by Board include: at least four working days in advance the executives with input, challenge, of Board meetings.
This enables the Board meetings are scheduled examination and ongoing testing from reporting packs to be as up-to-date as to ensure consideration of issues the Non-executive Directors: possible whilst allowing sufficient time relevant to the Board and to provide for their review and consideration in good working relationships exist adequate time for discussion of each advance of the meeting.
Verbal updates between Non-executive Directors agenda item.
This is supported by at Board meetings cover any material and non-Board members of the a forward-looking 12-month rolling developments subsequent to the senior management team, which Board plan which not only provides the distribution of reporting packs.
areencouraged by the executive directors with a longer-term outlook Presentations and discussions during directors: and of the business the Board needs Board meetings are provided by either to consider but it also provides a members of the senior management the executive director concerned or regular and systematic opportunity for team draw on the collective experience by the relevant senior manager who each director to add additional items of the Board, including its Nonhas been invited to attend for that which they consider important in the executive Directors.
particular item: forthcoming year: The Board of William Hill acts as a collective where a director is unable to attend he comprehensive reporting packs are unit.
However, in order to further optimise or she is still provided with the papers in the performance and the governance of provided to the Board, which are order to comment ahead of the meeting designed to be clear, accurate and the Board, there are distinct and clear roles, on the matters to be discussed: which are explained further below.
analytical, whilst avoiding excessive and unnecessary information.
Papers are financial updates with commentary are distributed to the Board on a regular distributed and retained in an electronic system which is managed by the basis.
The Board regularly reviews risk management and challenges this Company Secretary and this provides directors with instant access to current where appropriate: and prior papers at any time: Board discussions are held in a a summary of the actions arising at collaborative atmosphere of mutual each Board and Committee meeting is respect allowing for questions, scrutiny circulated by the Company Secretary and constructive challenge, where following each meeting.
In addition to formal Board Secretary then ensures progress is meetings, during the year the Board made in respect of each action and held a series of informal dinners which a progress report against previously provided an excellent opportunity for agreed actions is dealt with as a further discussion between the Board standing item to provide feedback to and for the Board to engage further with the entire Board that actions have been various members of the management progressed appropriately.
team in discussions over various matters in a more informal setting: William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 56 Role of Chairman, CEO, Senior All of William Hills Non-executive Directors, Matters reserved to the Board In order to support the Boards primary role Independent Director and including the Chairman and SID, are Non-executive Directors required by their role to perform certain to promote the long-term success of the Company and to promote a strong control No one individual on the Board has functions to improve the effectiveness of unfettered powers of decision-making.
In particular they: environment, the Board operates within a formal Schedule of Matters Reserved Throughout 2015, the Chairman, Gareth constructively challenge and contribute Davis, was responsible for leadership of to it and this forms part of an overarching to the development of strategy: Group Delegation of Authority.
Only the the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
scrutinise the performance of Board may exercise any of the powers in the Schedule of Matters Reserved.
James Henderson, as the CEO, is the management in meeting agreed executive responsible for the running of the goalsand objectives: Other powers are delegated to the various Board Committees and senior business.
Sir Roy Gardner is the Senior through the Audit and Risk Independent Non-executive Director SID management via formal Committee terms Management Committee, satisfy of reference or via the Group Delegation and his main role is to satisfy the function themselves that financial information outlined in the Code of being available to of Authority.
The Group Delegation is accurate and that internal controls of Authority and Schedule of Matters shareholders if there are concerns which and systems of risk management normal contact has failed to resolve.
Reserved to the Board are reviewed and are robust: updated on a regular basis and both were The SID is also required to lead the process for evaluating the Chairmans performance through the Remuneration Committee, updated with minor amendments during take responsibility for determining 2015.
The Group Delegation of Authority and to chair the Nomination Committee when it is considering succession to the appropriate levels of remuneration for and Schedule of Matters Reserved to the senior executives: and Board are circulated by the Company role of Chairman.
During 2015, the SID led the discussion of the Nomination Secretary to all members of the Executive through the Nomination Committee, Committee team and certain other senior Committee when it recommended to the undertake the role of recommending Board that the Chairmans term of ofce managers to ensure the authorities which the appointment, and where necessary have been agreed by the Board are be further extended see the report from removal, of positions on the Board.
the Nomination Committee for more understood across the entire business.
Role specications of Chairman, CEO, details.
The role of the SID also includes, if needed, a process under which he she SID and other Non-executive Directors are dened in writing so that their role might intervene to maintain Board and Company stability.
The role specications are either included in the terms of appointment or are otherwise approved by the Board.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 57 Governance Financial statements Matters reserved to the Board include: The authority delegated to senior Director be subject to particularly rigorous review and should take into account management provides a practical setting the overall direction, long-term framework to executive management, the need for progressive refreshing objectives and strategy of the of the Board.
The Board continues to which seeks to achieve the dual objectives Group and delegating day-to-day of maintaining effective financial and regard Ashley Higheld as independent.
management to the CEO: Gareth Davis satisfied the independence operational controls whilst providing reviewing Group performance: sufficient exibility to manage the criteria detailed in provision A.
3.1 of the Code upon his appointment as Chairman business.
Examples of areas of such reviewing the arrangements in delegated authority include: the release on 1 September 2010. place relating to regulatory and of capital expenditure against approved industry issues: The Board comprises individuals with wide budgets: treasury activity within approved business experience gained in various approving the appointment and limits: payroll processing: property sectors of industry and in the public removal of any Board member and transactions: LBO activities: the setting sector.
The directors aim is to ensure theCompany Secretary: of bet acceptance limits: and routine that the balance of the Board reects the transaction processing.
reviewing and approving the terms needs of the Groups business and to of reference of the various Board ensure a thorough consideration of the Board composition and balance Committees and receiving reports from important issues facing William Hill and Board composition committee chairmen on a regular basis: its performance.
The Board currently comprises five approving changes to the Groups independent Non-executive Directors, the Board balance capital structure, any significant Chairman and two executive directors.
James Bookmaking acquisitions and disposals, James Henderson was appointed to the Henderson and gaming capital investment projects and Board as CEO in 2014 and Philip Bowcock material contracts: was appointed as CFO in November 2015.
Gareth Davis International Sir Roy Gardner was appointed as Senior regulated business approval of the Groups annual plan, Independent Director in 2014.
David Lowden International business five-year strategic plan, Annual Report and finance and Accounts, Half Yearly Statement During 2015 and up to the date of this and setting the Groups dividend policy: report, the Company satisfied the Code Philip Bowcock Leisure, construction requirements that at least half the Board, and finance approval of the Groups charitable excluding the Chairman, should comprise Georgina Harvey Media and publishing donations and Group-wide corporate Non-executive Directors determined by the responsibility policies: Imelda Walsh Retail and Board to be independent.
human resources undertaking reviews of Board, The proportion of women members Sir Roy Gardner International business Committee and individual director of the Board currently stands at 25%.
performance: and Ashley Higheld Media and technology The Company regards each of Sir Roy succession planning for senior Gardner, Ashley Higheld, David Lowden, Georgina Harvey and Imelda Walsh as management and the Board on the recommendation of the independent Non-executive Directors, a matter which is reviewed annually.
Ashley Higheld was appointed in 2008 and during the year, the Nomination Committee and the Board reviewed Ashley Highelds independence against provision B.
2.3. of the Code, which requires that any term beyond six years for a Non-executive
