William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 65 Governance THE COMMITTEE OPERATED WELL IN 2015 AND Financial  TO THE statements BOARD THROUGH MONITORING THECOMPANYS  CONTROLS.
David Lowden Chairman, Audit and Risk Management Committee Membership and meetings Role of the Audit and Risk The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Management Committee reports to the Set out below is the current membership Board on the outcome of meetings.
A full copy of the terms of reference for the of the Audit and Risk Management Committee together with the year in which Committee can be obtained via the website A formalised whistleblowing policy and www.
com or by request to procedure for staff to raise issues regarding membership commenced.
During the year, all the members of the Committee were the Company Secretary.
The Committees possible improprieties in matters of principal responsibilities are to: financial reporting or other matters is in independent Non-executive Directors.
place and operated during the year.
It is the Year of review and advise the Board on the responsibility of the Committee to monitor Director appointment Groups half yearly and annual financial its effectiveness and any notications David Lowden, Chairman 2011 statements and its accounting policies made and to provide oversight that any Sir Roy Gardner 2014 and monitor the integrity of the financial changes management would need to Ashley Higheld 2009 statements and announcements make to procedures, policies or practice Imelda Walsh 2011 relating to financial performance: as a result of a notication have been assist the Board as necessary in implemented effectively.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary ensuring that the Companys Annual to the Committee.
Other individuals attend The Committee has access to the services Report and Accounts is fair, balanced at the request of the Committee Chairman of the Internal Audit and Company and understandable in accordance and during the year the external auditor, Secretarial departments and is authorised with applicable legislation and Chairman, CEO, CFO, Director of Group to obtain independent professional advice if governance recommendations: Legal Services, the Director of Risk and it considers it necessary.
Audit, Head of Internal Audit, the Group review the major risks affecting the Financial Controller and Group Chief Group and assist the Board with Main activities during 2015 Information officer would usually attend all reviewing the effectiveness of the The Committee has discharged its or some of the meetings to report to the controls operating over the Groups responsibilities during the year by Committee and provide clarification and financial and non-financial risks: performing the following activities.
In view review the nature and scope of the of the regulated nature of the Companys Financial statements work to be performed by the external business, the Group Money Laundering During the year, the Committee and internal auditors, the result of that Reporting officer also attends two reviewed and discussed the financial work, managements response, and meetings each year in order to provide a disclosures made in the preliminary their effectiveness: formal report on anti-money laundering to results announcement, Annual Report the Committee.
In addition, the Committee oversee the relationship with the and Accounts and the half yearly results also meets with the external auditor external auditor including making together with any related management without executive management present recommendations to the Board letters, letters of representation and on a regular basis.
The Committee met on regarding their appointment or removal detailed reports from the external auditor.
six occasions during 2015 and details of and developing a policy regarding significant financial reporting issues attendance at Committee meetings are set the provision of non-audit services and judgements were discussed and out on page 61. to the Group.
The Committee is also reviewed.
There were no material changes responsible for overseeing the rotation to significant accounting policies during The Chairman of the Committee, or tender of external audit services in the year.
David Lowden, has recent and relevant accordance with applicable legislation financial experience.
He is a chartered The UK Corporate Governance Code or good governance: accountant and has previously held requires the Board to confirm that senior financial positions within other meet with the executive directors and they consider the Annual Report and international companies.
Sir Roy management, as well as privately Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, Gardner, Ashley Higheld, and Imelda withboth the external and internal balanced and understandable and that Walsh are all nancially literate and have auditors: and it provides the information necessary for significant general business experience of shareholders to assess the Companys report to shareholders annually on its executive roles in both private and public position and performance, business model role and responsibilities.
Details of each directors and strategy.
significant current and prior appointments are set out on pages 58 and 59.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 66 A process was established during The Committee reviewed and approved The combined single policy addresses various 2014 whereby the Committee assisted the statements on internal controls on matters in respect of the external auditor, the Board in the discharge of this duty pages 62 and 63.
The Committee also including: and following review, the process was reviewed developments in practice the appointment, tendering and rotation of considered appropriate for the 2015 regarding internal control and risk the external auditor: financial year.
In particular, the Committee assistance to the Board by considering the noted the revised Guidance on Risk the employment by the Group of former robustness of the process by which the Management, Internal Control and Related employees of the external auditor: Annual Report and Accounts is prepared.
Financial and Business Reporting issued auditor conrmation of independence: and In particular the Committee noted that: by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014. the provision of non-audit services by guidance is issued to the primary the external auditor and the criteria to be contributors in respect of the External auditor followed when considering whether external requirement for the Annual Report The Committee has responsibility for auditor should be engaged to undertake and Accounts to be fair, balanced overseeing the relationship with the non-audit services.
and understandable: external auditor and continues to review and monitor the external auditors In accordance with the policy, during the year the content of the Annual Report and independence, objectivity and the the Committee considered and approved any Accounts is subject to rigorous review effectiveness of the audit process.
non-audit work undertaken by the external and checking by both the contributors The Committee approved the external auditor involving fees in excess of 25,000. and by certain senior management.
auditors engagement letter, audit fee Where no Committee meeting was scheduled In particular, senior management and the annual audit plan including within an appropriate time frame, approval including the CFO, Company Secretary the planned levels of materiality.
was sought from the Committee Chairman and Director of Investor Relations The external auditor regularly attended and subsequently ratied at the next meeting.
have reviewed the entire Annual Committee meetings in 2015 and met at All non-audit services provided by the external Report and Accounts to ensure that least once with the Committee without auditor are reported to the Committee at its next it promotes consistency and balance executive management.
scheduled meeting and a record is kept and between the narrative front half and reviewed by the Committee on a cumulative Accounts sections: The Chairman of the Committee has also basis during the year so that the total aggregate met privately with the external auditor.
the Annual Report and Accounts costs regarding non-audit work during a Letters of representation were reviewed follows a clear and cohesive framework financial year is monitored carefully.
Audit and during the year, prior to signature by which facilitates the inclusion of key non-audit fees paid to the external auditor are executive management.
messages, market and segment set out in note 5 to the financial statements.
reviews, performance, and principal Deloitte LLP are the Companys current Deloitte has been the external auditor of the risks to the business.
sufficient forwardexternal auditor and the Committee Group for more than 20 years and a tender looking information is also provided and monitors the ethical guidance regarding in respect of the external audit has not been a balance is sought between describing rotation of the external audit partner.
sought since William Hill was listed on the potential challenges and opportunities: Paul Franek is the current external audit London Stock Exchange in 2002.
There are no partner, having been appointed in 2014. the Committee had received a contractual obligations restricting the Groups During 2015, the Committee received brieng during the year on the material choice of external auditor.
The Committee regular reports from the external auditor, governance and statutory-related confirms that it is satisfied with the performance including a formal written report dealing changes which would be required to be of the external auditor during the year and with the audit objectives, the auditors reported in the 2015 Annual Report and with the policies and procedures in place to qualications, expertise and resources, Accounts: and maintain their objectivity and independence.
procedures and policies for maintaining The Committee recommended that Deloitte be the Annual Report and Accounts is independence and compliance with the reappointed at the forthcoming Annual General subject to final approval by the Board, ethical standards issued by the Auditing Meeting and the Board accepted and endorsed following review and comments by Practices Board.
The Committee also this recommendation.
assessed the effectiveness of the audit both the Audit and Risk Management Committee and by the Board.
In addition, the external auditors The Committee notes and confirms compliance management letter was reviewed, as was with the provisions of the Competition & Markets The Committee was satisfied with the managements response to issues raised.
Authority Order 2014 in respect of statutory actions taken in preparing the Annual audit services for large companies.
The Committee regularly considers the Groups written policies in respect of In the report from the Committee which Internal control and risk management the relationship with the external auditor.
appeared in the 2014 Annual Report, it was The Committee reviewed the Groups During 2015 the policies were reviewed, in noted that the Committee had considered internal control and risk management particular in view of a number of legislative whether a formal tender process was required in systems and received regular reports from developments regarding regulatory reform respect of the external auditor.
The Committee a number of departments, and, where on the provision of services provided by the had commented that there were a number of appropriate, presentations from senior external auditor.
As a result of the review, legislative developments, both within the UK management, on the major risks faced by all of the associated policies in respect and within the EU, regarding regulatory reform the Group and the procedures established of the external auditor were updated in respect of the provision of audit services by to identify, assess, manage, monitor and and combined into a single policy on the the external auditor.
As William Hill was listed report on these risks.
In 2015, this included independence of the external auditor.
on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, the progress reports and presentations on transitional provisions of the EU Regulation business continuity planning, disaster provide that William Hill must change its external recovery, anti-money laundering, fraud auditor no later than June 2023. prevention and information security.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 67 Governance After further consideration the Committee This process is primarily focused on the items which had been categorised has re-afrmed the conclusions reached key issues identied by management as exceptional items for 2015.
It is Financial and explained in the 2014 Annual Report, for consideration.
However, each normal policy each year to consider if statements in particular: Committee member as a member of any matters should be treated in the the Board receives regular updates on financial statements as exceptional.
Paul Franek Deloitte became the the performance of the business and Following review with management it new external audit partner in 2014. in particular on material issues which was agreed that certain items should be In accordance with the current ethical may affect the nances of the business.
treated as exceptional items and further guidance regarding rotation of audit This gives the Committee additional information is provided in note 3 to the partners, his five-year term will expire perspective to consider and to be familiar financial statements: in2019: and with significant issues which need to the accounting treatment and the final form of the above mentioned be considered.
In respect of the 2015 disclosures in respect of the investment legislative developments had yet to be financial year, the Committee reviewed in NeoGames: and discussed with management the key implemented in the UK.
issues which had been identied, both at the disclosures and supporting analysis The Committee continues to afrm that the half year stage and again in respect of in respect of the viability statement: given the foregoing and in view of the the full financial year.
changes within William Hills business over matters relating to taxation: the last few years, now would not be the In addition, each year the external auditor an annual assessment by the directors right time to seek a tender in respect of the prepares a comprehensive forward that it is appropriate to prepare the external auditor.
The Committee further plan in respect of the audit of the annual financial statements on a going concern financial statements.
Towards the end afrms that its current intention is to change basis: and the external auditor by no later than the of 2015, the Committee reviewed the expiry of the five-year term of the external plan and discussed it with Deloitte.
the effectiveness of key controls within audit partner i. e. by 2019 and hence on The plan explained: the business.
that basis a competitive tendering process the scope and approach of the Further details in respect of accounting will commence prior to the expiry of the audit, including consideration of treatments and assumptions are provided five-year term.
The Committee will continue materiality thresholds: as appropriate in the notes to the financial to monitor legislative developments as they statements.
Part of the Committees are nalised and will review its conclusion any key areas of change in the focus role is to provide constructive challenge and any other associated matter with of the audit: and to management on the above issues regard to the external auditor again in areas of significant audit risk which and on other matters related to financial due course.
would be subject to particular reporting.
This is particularly important Internal Audit audit focus.
where underlying assumptions need During the year the Committee approved to be made by management as part of The Committee endorsed Deloittes plan the annual audit plan and it monitored their assessments.
In respect of this, the in respect of 2015. progress against the plan.
Audit reports Committee questioned management as were made available to the Committee The Committee pays particular attention needed on the appropriate treatment of members after each audit and the to the matters which it considers may the items.
The significant issues were also Committee monitored progress against affect the integrity of the Groups financial the subject of review by the external auditor actions identied in those reports and statements, with a view to satisfying and the Committee noted that, where the external auditors management letter.
itself that each matter has been treated needed, the external auditor had confirmed During the year and in particular regarding appropriately.
The Committee found managements treatment was appropriate the approval of the internal audit plan for the that there was a good level of alignment and that management had made forthcoming year the Committee enquired between the key areas identied by reasonable assumptions.
The Committee as to the adequacy of the resources of the management and the areas highlighted was satisfied that the judgements made Risk and Audit function.
The Committee by management were reasonable and that assessed each matter, which included appropriate disclosures had been included The Risk and Audit function has reviews of: in the accounts.
The Committee also noted unrestricted access to all Group that Deloitte have issued an audit opinion, documentation, premises, functions and the carrying value of goodwill and which appears on pages 97 to 100 of this employees as required to enable it to intangibles across the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts, in respect perform its functions.
The appointment The Group regularly assesses whether ofthe annual financial statements.
and removal of the Director of Risk the carrying value of goodwill and and Audit and Head of Internal Audit intangibles should be impaired as well Other activities is the responsibility of the Committee.
as the suitability of useful economic Regular updates were provided to the The Director of Risk and Audit and Head lives, as well as the disclosures included Committee during 2015 on developments of Internal Audit have direct access to in financial statements.
Following review in financial reporting, risk management the Board and Committee Chairman.
it was agreed that no impairment and legal and corporate governance During 2015 the Director of Risk and Audit charge was required: matters.
The Committee also reviewed and and Head of Internal Audit continued discussed the Audit Quality Review issued other potential and actual liabilities.
to meet regularly with the Committee by the Financial Reporting Council in Assumptions used in respect of the Chairman without executive management.
2015 in respect of Deloitte in order to gain liability regarding the dened benefit further insight on Deloittes performance Disclosure of significant issues considered pension scheme were also reviewed, in general.
by the Committee asa matter of routine: An important part of the Committees David Lowden responsibilities is to assess key issues in Chairman, Audit and Risk Management Committee respect of reported financial statements.
