28 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model: Resources and relationships Creating our culture Creating our culture OUR COLLEAGUES In January 2015, we launched the Worldpay Establish a common way of working, Way Work Smart, Be Spirited, Be using the Worldpay Way to make it Supportive.
The initiative was developed in easier to get things done and to be Our people are critical to our ability to collaboration with colleagues across the clear how we do them deliver our strategy and have supported Group to define how we wanted to behave Create a working environment that the growth of the business.
We currently and act in the future.
Over the course of supports our culture have 5,000 colleagues and contractors 2015, we saw increased understanding and based in 13 countries.
adoption of the Worldpay Way across the business.
We have aligned some of the At the time of our IPO in October 2015, we Driving capability core people processes to the Worldpay awarded shares to colleagues or gave Way and have used it extensively in our Recruit the best people them an equivalent cash bonus in recruitment and development activity.
Grow talent pools, particularly around jurisdictions where a share award wasnt diversity networks possible.
Colleagues were awarded these Use our Worldpay Academy shares without any restrictions and we are development resource to help delighted that 67% of our current colleagues reach their potential and workforce are shareholders and will share progress within the organisation in our future success.
2015 was a significant year for the development of our people strategy.
We Engaging our teams WORK SMART set out in this section three key focus Support our managers to lead brilliantly areas, together with some of the highlights and engage their teams of the progress we made during the year.
We are constantly curious, looking for Use the annual colleague engagement brilliantly simple solutions and we make survey to benchmark engagement and things happen and achieve amazing results.
managers ratings Improve awareness of our corporate responsibility activity Use our communication channels to explain our journey and support our colleagues BE SPIRITED We are passionate about payments, our customers and colleagues.
We are resilient and courageous in our thinking and actions.
BE SUPPORTIVE We care about each other, our customers and our Company and we are open and direct in our approach.
We are always striving to do the right thing in the right way.
29 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information At the same time, we continue to invest in We have also made significant progress in And we do not only rely on the survey to making our office environments support how we support colleagues development.
understand whats on colleagues minds.
the culture we are creating: modern, bright The Worldpay Academy now hosts all our In 2015, we started to roll out our Talk and collaborative spaces, designed to suit training and development activity, from About People groups.
These forums give new working styles and practices.
In 2015, induction and online compliance training to colleagues the chance to speak with their we opened a new regional head office in support for leadership development.
We senior management teams and raise local So Paulo and started the local relocation showed our commitment to Worldpays concerns or issues, supplementing the of our Atlanta office in the US.
future leaders by investing in the creation of formal relationship we have with UNITE in the MA Management International the UK and the Works Council we operate Driving capability Payments Ecosystem.
During the year we made progress finding part-time programme was developed in new opportunities to expand our talent partnership with Middlesex University and is Most of our internal communications pools.
The MA will benefit channels allow colleagues to comment, not only the Company but colleagues, share or feed back and our internal We aligned our recruiting tools to the customers and the wider payments industry.
communications are increasingly about Worldpay Way to support recruiting Our first 24 students enrolled on the course creating a dialogue rather than a one-way managers, and participated in recruitment in September 2015 and the second cohort is broadcast of information.
Colleagues events both within the technology sector, now being finalised.
around the world also regularly have the for example the Silicon Milkroundabout chance to see and speak with our senior graduate career fair, and by inviting We continue to use creative ideas to leaders in informal settings.
The score developers to our networking events.
We develop the next generation of leaders, forthe colleague engagement survey also made progress as signatories of the and across the year over 30 high-potential question Our internal communications Military Covenant, working in partnership colleagues have attended the Worldpay channels help me to understand our with SaluteMyJob to host our first Journey, a course designed to prepare strategy increased 11 percentage points placement from the armed forces.
them for future managerial roles.
Looking internally, we supported the We are starting to see how our Worldpay as an employer growth of two colleague networks The commitment to developing our people We are committed to making Worldpay Women of Worldpay WOW and GLOW.
During 2015, atruly great place to work.
WOW aims to attract more talented colleagues attended some 3,000 face-towomen to Worldpay, to encourage our face training sessions and over 97% In addition to competitive base salaries womens career development and ofcolleagues completed mandatory and benefits packages, the vast majority leadership aspirations, and create an compliance training.
In addition, nine of Worldpay colleagues globally share in internal network of like-minded women colleagues were promoted to the Group overall business success through variable and men across the business.
Since its Senior Leadership Team SLT, meeting our pay schemes, for example annual bonuses creation in October 2014, our WOW objective of filling a greater proportion of or sales commission plans.
network has attracted 250 members our vacancies through internal promotions.
across eight offices, in four countries.
Beyond financial incentives, we have Engaging our teams adopted policies and ways of working that In March 2015, we launched a new network In 2015, we ran our first global engagement encourage colleagues to work flexibly, focused on our lesbian, gay, bisexual and survey in partnership with Best Companies, complementing their responsibilities transgender LGBT colleagues and building on the work we started in 2014.
Known as GLOW, the engagement score has risen over 68 points network fosters a sense of belonging and this year giving usa 1 accreditation level, In 2015, we increased the support we inclusion, as well as enabling mentorship improving last years one to watch result.
Every division and function increased their In partnership with My Family Care we overall engagement scores.
Participation introduced Work Family, a wealth of In 2016, we plan to launch our Muslims of across the Group was very good: at 72% it online resources, advice and practical Worldpay MOW network focusing on issome 24% higher than the average for assistance to help deal with issues related connecting Muslim colleagues, as well as large companies.
to the changing landscape of family life increasing awareness and acceptance of and an ageing population issues like Islamic culture and religion.
We have taken a number of themes from childcare and eldercare.
the results and given training and support to local managers to respond effectively to them at a local level.
30 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model: Resources and relationships continued In addition to providing an anonymous OUR TECHNOLOGY helpline to allow colleagues to blow the whistle on any work-related issue, we also offer support for colleagues dealing with students enrolled in personal issues through an employee Since the divestment from RBS in 2010, Payment MA to date assistance helpline.
wehave invested significantly in our technology infrastructure and capabilities.
Underpinning everything we do to make We now provide access to over 300 Worldpay a great place to work is our payment methods in 146 countries, position on equal opportunities.
We are representing 99% of the worlds GDP.
This fully committed to providing equal capability is enabled by our proprietary % opportunities in the workplace, and we global payments platform which allows value diversity and embrace our our customers to take payments in almost participation in global differences which broaden our collective any way, using almost any payment engagement survey experiences and knowledge in the method, in almost any location.
platform is integrated across the entire transaction process from the capture of a Being an equal opportunities employer payment request, routing and authorising means that we do not discriminate directly the transaction, then clearing and settling or indirectly in recruitment, promotion, the funds.
training or employment because of age, disability, gender, gender reassignment, We are well advanced in our technical point increase in employee pregnancy, maternity, race including separation from RBS, having already engagement score colour, nationality and ethnic or national migrated and upgraded our real-time origins, sexual orientation, religion or authorisations engine, payment gateway belief, or because someone is married or components, and the merchant servicing ina civil partnership.
Every effort will be back office and productivity systems.
The made to accommodate the specific needs only element of the technology platform of disabled colleagues and reasonable still hosted at RBS is the clearing and adjustments will be made to working settlement component which will be environments where possible.
replaced by our new acquiring platform.
The build of the new acquiring platform More than 40% of our global workforce is was completed at the end of 2015, and we female, which exceeds many private are now building and testing the migration sector benchmarks.
However, the gender approach with a view to launching the new spread is not reflected in our leadership platform and starting to migrate our teams or across all functions and we customers in 2016. continue to work on a number of initiatives including our womens network WOW The payments platform to improve the representation of women We have developed our proprietary global throughout the business.
technology platform with software created by our own engineering talent and using our in-house intellectual property.
It is Female Male Total deployed onto low-cost, high-performance Executives 1 9 10 infrastructure to perform at scale and Senior Leadership enable reinvestment in the development of Team 14 56 70 the platform.
31 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The platform itself is made up of six sets of Customer service: We have Advanced engineering capability and components: components to manage the entire intellectual property customer lifecycle, including payment Our technology advantage is rooted in Interfaces to access the payments exceptions for example, chargebacks our engineering and technology talent.
network: We offer a comprehensive and other types of payment disputes.
Because we are pursuing growth in new range of integration points, built to markets and new propositions, we have meet the needs of each set of our We believe that our technology base will made the strategic decision to invest customers.
This provides access to our provide opportunities for significant heavily in building an internal capability to global payments network through card operating leverage, as our payments solve customer problems creatively and terminals, websites, mobiles and platform has been designed and created pragmatically, and to develop new products tablets, as well as technical integrations to provide capacity for five to 20 times through technology.
for start-ups and software developers.
as much transaction volume as we currently process.
This will also enable Our people have extensive expertise in Gateways that route payments across us to quickly upgrade and modify our payments and in our customers industries, the network: We have a wide range of payments platform in response to and are able to combine that commercial gateways, each providing a specific regulatory and other changes at a knowledge with leading-edge engineering.
capability for our customers, be it for marginal incremental cost.
As at 31 December 2015 we have more than payments across different channels 1,500 colleagues dedicated to technology with rich functionality at high speed or Track record of high performance across six global engineering sites.
for tailored access into a local market.
Worldpay has a proven track record These components accept a payment of reliable performance, stability and The engineering and operating teams and send it via the best route across the security.
continually seek to help merchants create network depending on our customers a better understanding of their own appetite for risk, cost and acceptance.
As each component of Worldpays business dynamics, including how to platform has been migrated or integrated, optimise their payment costs and to Value-added products and services: performance has been upgraded by interpret data on shopper behaviour and Our products include a risk between two and ten times.
Intuitive interfaces aim to management and fraud detection network bandwidth is now approximately demystify payments data and trends, and engine, local and alternative payment 16 times faster, authorisation response we provide easy access to quick, targeted methods, a wide range of currencies, as time is now approximately 3.5 times insights for small businesses via My well as a payment tokenisation engine faster and anti-fraud responses are Business Dashboard, a simple dashboard to secure cardholder sensitive data.
approximately four times faster compared that delivers easily digestible reports to to the previous system.
enable small businesses to understand Core payments: We offer two in-house their business performance over time.
We acquiring engines within our payments These upgrades have been delivered have also channelled our understanding of platform, one optimised for domestic whilst maintaining our payment service customer needs with expertise in payments in the United States, the availability at near 100% on a global scale, regulation and scheme compliance rules other a global engine that accepts and continuing to handle increased to provide one of the industrys first payments in 146 countries, including transaction volumes during each of our automated on-boarding of new customers domestic payments in the United customers regional and global peak in as little as ten minutes, while remaining Kingdom, India, Japan and Canada, periods, including Singles Day in China fully compliant with rules and regulations.
We have full internal 400% of volumes compared to normal, control and optimisation of payment Six Nations Rugby in the UK 150% and An eye to the future authorisations, scheme and card Black Friday in the US 50%.
Worldpay is proactive in tracking and network processing, billing rates and identifying market trends.
We focus on security at every level.
are then used to drive our research and On average, we monitor approximately development agenda, advise our Data: Since we own and operate the 550 million events per day.
All of the core customers and engage with regulators.
points of entry to our global payments payment components operated by us network, the gateways, and the core have been certified as PCI-DSS compliant, Our research and development activities payment processing, we are able to and we continue to develop new products focus on: monitor, store and create insights by and enhance existing ones to reduce our analysing the full cycle of payment data customers security exposure.
Critical Technology innovation team: The and traffic patterns.
components of our technology have technology division has a small team additional security measures, including exclusively dedicated to working on nested firewalls and hardware security innovative technologies.
proof of concepts during 2014 and 2015 32 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model: Resources and relationships continued included crypto-currency integration OPERATING RESPONSIBLY modules for ecommerce gateways: % identity validation capability through facial recognition at point of sale: the of our people are dedicated use of beacons for payment information Our business partners to technology in retail locations: Internet of Things At Worldpay, we hold ourselves to high payment integrations in vehicles: the business standards and we want to work use of mobile devices as card with suppliers who do the same.
We work acceptance terminals: and consumer smart, were spirited and were supportive, protection standards in emerging and these values are evident in all we do.
Thats why we promote high legal, ethical, m corporate and employee-related New product projects: For a major new standards in our own business and ask our security-related events product development, we will typically suppliers to do the same.
monitored per day form an internal, standalone project team with a mandate to operate To make sure our suppliers share our independently to drive a product to values, we introduced our Supplier Code market quickly.
Recent examples of this of Conduct in 2015 as part of our approach include the Worldpay Zinc procurement process.
We now review mobile payment solution aimed at sole supplier performance against this code traders and other small businesses, and and other good health measures at the online payments gateway aimed at regular governance meetings.
developers seeking simple integrations with ecommerce gateways.
Whats more, in an effort to ensure our energy suppliers align to our values and Investment in early-stage ventures and ways of working, all new contracts are with start-up incubators: We engage actively green energy suppliers.
We have invested in Pazien, a data analytics As for our data centres, which are based in start-up.
We are also an active shared facilities, we strive to partner with participant in the Atlanta Technical responsible companies who share our Development Center start-up incubator values, such as SungardAS who provide at Georgia Tech University the ATDC.
two of our UK data centres and one in the Companies being supported by US.
We are working hard to consolidate Worldpay at the ATDC are working on a our smaller data centre facilities into larger number of payments-related and more efficient sites.
developments, including known customer services in the travel industry, Our corporate responsibility healthcare patient data and payments, Acting responsibly is an important part of and mobile applications for products our culture at Worldpay.
We believe in delivery providers and restaurants.
doing things in the right way and as sustainably as possible for us, our Participation in industry standardscustomers, our people and the setting bodies: We are an active communities we operate in.
participant in key technical and industry bodies, including EMVCo and In 2015, our Corporate Responsibility CR the PCI Security Standards Council Council further defined and co-ordinated Board of Advisors.
Worldpay is the chair our CR agenda across the Group.
The of the emerging Internet Payment Council is made up of senior leaders from Standard at the W3C.
Worldpay across Worldpay and is chaired by a participates in research and debate and member of our Executive Committee aims to positively influence the Chief Human Resources Officer, Andy direction of the payments industry.
In 2016, we plan to build on the work done in 2015 and set a Global CR strategy which leverages our core business capability and is delivered through relevant local initiatives.
33 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS We continue to be an active member of 5 This total includes information on all of our And our partnerships with charities go UK-based operations for Scope 1 and 2 and UK the Business in the Community BITC beyond processing payments.
Colleagues plus some overseas operations for Scope 3.
We network where we share best practice and around the world fundraise and give their expect to be able to report full global data in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016. benchmark our activities.
time in support of charities and 6 The number of full time equivalent employees organisations that are important to them.
FTEs used for the intensity ratio calculation was Protecting the environment for future Since October 2014, we have focused our 3,161, being the number of FTEs based in the UK.
generations is important to us all, and at corporate fundraising efforts on Great Worldpay we have put a number of Ormond Street Hospital in London.
We All our new offices are designed and built practices in place to help us minimise our initially set ourselves the challenge of with sustainability in mind.
Both our carbon emissions, including saving energy, raising 100,000 to fund a state-of-the-art London and Manchester offices have recycling office waste and adopting bedroom in the hospitals new clinical been assessed as Excellent by BREEAM paperless work practices.
By the end of 2015, we had raised Building Research Establishment 160,000 from combined colleagues Environmental Assessment Method and The table below sets out our greenhouse efforts and Worldpays matched the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors gas GHG emissions for 2015 in tonnes of donations.
awarded gold and silver sustainability CO e as required by the Companies Act awards to our London and Manchester 2 2006 Strategic Report and Directors offices respectively.
Report, together with our intensity ratio.
Where we have colleagues working in 1 Base year 2015 older buildings, we have taken action to 2 reduce their environmental impact, Scope 1 1,185 3 including improving temperature control Scope 2 3,138 and reducing electricity consumption.
For 4 Scope 3 4,591 example, in Gateshead, we have installed 5 Total Gross emissions 8,914 LED panels which will reduce the total Intensity measurement energy used on lighting by 61% and our 6 Tonnes of CO e FTE 2.82 2 carbon footprint by 34.79 tons.
1 The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 requires Non-profit partnerships quoted companies to report on greenhouse gas We are proud to use our scale, GHG emissions for which they are responsible.
infrastructure and capabilities to support Worldpay Group plc listed on 13 October 2015.
2 Scope 1 data is made up of owned fleet vehicles a number of charities in local and gas usage in the UK.
Fleet vehicle data has communities.
In 2015, we continued our been calculated using average mileage per vehicle partnership with Comic Relief as a with the emissions conversion factor based on a medium vehicle as stipulated by DEFRA.
platinum sponsor, processing free of Purchased gas is used for gas boilers in two UK charge the 105,905 donations worth sites and not in any other building: this data has been gathered from our energy providers and 6.6m made using Worldpay technology.
conversion factors have been used as stipulated We plan to build on our relationship with by DEFRA.
Fugitive emissions have not been Comic Relief in 2016 by volunteering our included in this submission, however it is expected that this value will make up less than 1% of our call centres and colleagues in support of Scope 1 emissions.
3 Purchased electricity makes up 100% of our Scope 2 emissions.
This data has been gathered from our energy providers and conversion factors have In 2015, we once again supported Cancer been used as stipulated by DEFRA.
Approximately Researchs annual fundraising campaign, 50% of our UK electricity is green energy.
Up to 1st August 2015, this was a guaranteed green Stand Up To Cancer SU2C, which aims energy source by the use of LECs Levy to bring forward the day when all cancers Exemption Certificates.
Since UK Government are cured.
Weve been supporting SU2C changes in legislation in 2015, this supply is now sourced through REGOs Renewable Energy with free payments processing since it Guarantee of Origin.
The event raised 14.9m 4 Scope 3 includes indirect travel use through our in total and we processed around 14,000 global operations.
A travel policy has been in place in all locations other than US Atlanta since Q1 transactions on the night.
2015 with plans to review globally in Q2 2016.
Emissions from business travel cover global flights and rail for UK, US, The Netherlands and Singapore.
We intend to improve our coverage for air, rail and car hire data to include all other locations in Q3 2016.
This data has been supplied by our travel management providers and converted by them using the relevant conversion factors.
