How were doing Media Investment Management Unilever, General Mills, Facebook and booking.
com This year will be more of the same but faster.
voted for us as their global media agency of record all Our biggest challenge is to marry brand marketing progressive and visionary clients and from very different and outcome-based media and to fuse both aggregated businesses, testifying to our breadth and diversity.
These channel planning with individual and addressable global wins were complemented by significant national audience planning and trading.
We are developing wins from Indofood in Indonesia, Leroy Merlin in Russia, new approaches with our proprietary technology stack Foxtel in Australia and Kang Shi Fu in China.
and making dynamic addressable marketing a reality.
Essence We are developing new Report by Christian Juhl approaches with our Global chief executive officer proprietary technology dvertising Age was prophetic in naming us an stack and making dynamic Agency to Watch last year.
In 2015, we grew our existing clients by 30%, started new relationships addressable marketing with global brands like HP and Intuit, opened a reality three new offices and hired 100 teammates.
To make it even more exciting, we culminated the year by joining GroupM, following 10 years of independence.
Our product innovation continued with the roll-out At Essence, our mission is to make advertising more of our data-infused Loop rooms, discovering real-time valuable to the world.
In 2015, we accomplished this more insights that drive real-time actions, across 40 offices.
We than ever before by solving some of the worlds toughest have reinvented communications planning for an adaptive digital marketing challenges with the worlds very best age with Planning for Agility, creating ideas that move at talent.
We continue to advance the industry in analytics, the speed of culture and we have delivered outcome-focused data science, technology and content all leading to our solutions through FAST Future Adaptive Specialist Team vision of Essence being recognized as the worlds most units in global hubs, pulling together programmatic, advanced digital marketing agency.
search, social and digital display into one performancefocused delivery unit that works across markets.
Content now creates dynamic real-time content for a programmatic We continue to advance age and, together with Kantar, we have developed Growth, a toolkit to drive sales and growth across markets.
Shop the industry in analytics, and Life are our future-facing units dedicated to driving data science, technology media as digital retail shelf space, and wearables and Internet of Things services respectively.
and content On the creative front, we enjoyed huge success, winning the Cannes International Festival of Creativity Media Lions Grand Prix with Vodafone Team Red and multiple other On the financial front, this year marked our fifth Lions for Nike and Unilever.
We won two of the three global sequential year of double-digit growth, with global revenue Effies with Jaguar Land Rover and Nike and 38 Effies in total from business development up 240% year-on-year.
We were named the MMA Global Mobile addition to the aforementioned new client wins, we won Agency of the Year, Global Cristal Awards Media Agency of valuable assignments from GrubHub, Visa and Viber.
the Year, Mediaposts Social Agency of the Year, Campaigns And of course, our role as Googles global digital media Network of the Year in Asia and national Agency of the Year agency of record continues to thrive.
Also, it was the first in Singapore, China, the Netherlands, Sweden, Turkey and year our ad tech practice made a meaningful contribution India with over 170 awards in India alone in 2015. to our total revenue.
This enabled us to increase our 67 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Media Investment Management investment in technology, bringing our engineering team Increasing client efficiency to roughly 20% of our total staff.
The opportunity to tenthavenue lies in the area of content Well continue to invent, analyze and experiment in creation, management and distribution.
Were currently in the process of creating a new approach to talent acquisition and development.
Build once for all screens people are our greatest asset and at Essence we recruit, Combining content management and digital production hire and retain only the very best.
And its only by capabilities from agencies such as Forward and Candyspace keeping them as our center that we can continue to lead allows us to design content, then build the core asset once and push the boundaries of digital media and marketing.
only and allow for screen and market adaptation.
This drives savings for clients, true transparency on cost of asset creation and aligns content across all publishers.
Clients tenthavenue have realised that getting ad networks to build creative execution is expedient but far from best practice.
Manage and distribute Chief executive officer tenthavenue is developing technology solutions in the management and distribution of content to catch up to the ur objectives for 2015 were two-fold: the continuous efficiencies already seen in online digital.
Specifically, where development of our existing services to clients inefficiencies still pervade or unique market circumstance through the application of data and technology: and exist, i. e. : the creation of new products and services focused Out of home screens in all markets: and around increasing the efficiency of clients marketing.
Developing markets where mobile handsets are the primary screens and where functionality is lower and Application of data and technology data costs are higher.
Reaching audiences with precision when they are outside their home is critical to some clients and creates opportunities for tenthavenue to plan and execute media and content in unison.
Our development of new Growth of digital screens in the out-of-home OOH environment and new distribution technologies create the planning techniques joins up potential to build nearto real-time content optimization audiences across locations, and enables the innovative use of mobile data to understand geo-located OOH audiences.
Our development of new devices and screens planning techniques joins up audiences across locations, devices and screens.
This is especially true in retail.
Our recent successes include: As ever, many thanks to all our clients, partners and Kinetic China being awarded the full service media people for their support in 2015. assignment for Swatch in China: covering all of television, print, OOH and online.
Poster Conseil Kinetic in France is starting to revolutionize OOH planning and measurement by utilizing mobile data from Spafax Networks.
68 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Kantar LatAm, Kantar Worldpanels Brand Footprint which focuses on the issue of penetration, Added Values cultural insight Report by Eric Salama and premiumisation work and The Futures Company Chairman and chief executive officer Millennials, Centennials and Polycultural publications, as well as Kantar Retail publications about e-commerce and ur clients are fixated by the need to differentiate and their retail PoweRankings.
Many of the benchmarks we be relevant.
It is that relevant differentiation which have created e. g. strength of retail brands, penetration, allows them to charge price premiums, maintain brand differentiation have been adopted as KPIs for senior margins, secure distribution on acceptable terms management in a host of client organisations and have led and have customers remain loyal to them and try new to clients commissioning new work.
As clients have sought to restructure and reorient their marketing and insight departments, Vermeers work on Marketing 2020 and Insights 2020 has been published in Harvard Business Review, discussed in CMO forums around the world and used by clients to benchmark the We have teamed with other degree to which they are positioned to use marketing, WPP companies to ensure insights and analytics to grow.
that our insights are widely Relevant innovation used and embedded to We have focused on the issues which are the biggest pain points for our clients.
To these ends we have piloted, launched improve the effectiveness and rolled out a number of new approaches, notably: and efficiency of creative Making our work more impactful and predictive and media campaigns Building our consulting capability.
We have 1000 consultants working within Kantar on marketing strategies which span sectors such as retail and healthcare to issues such as structure, market access and embedding insights.
Their We are equally fixated by the need to be relevant and impact has been felt by our clients ever more widely this year.
differentiated in the eyes of our clients, for many of the Socially infused tracking.
TNS now incorporates social same reasons.
Against that background we were delighted media data in its tracking product for clients such as with the highest-ever increase in our preference scores in SABMiller, making the results more real-time and predictive.
2015 by an unprecedented eight percentage points the Programmatic segmentation.
Clients such as IHG measure of differentiation used by our clients to assess have benefited from our ability to take our consumer our relationship and work.
We are not just talking about segmentation work for them, map profiles on to larger relevant differentiation clients are experiencing it.
It is databases and deliver these to a media agency to plan testimony to the focus we have put on making our work and buy media in a way which has a proven uplift.
contemporary and relevant to the issues our clients are Using profiles.
Through our Ignite and Lightspeed facing and to the thought leadership, innovation and quality platforms, and working cooperatively with GroupM and of talent which we have brought to market during the year.
Wunderman, we have built rich profiles on millions of people across multiple markets profiles that can be used Relevant thought leadership to enhance media planning and buying and which we can We have delivered world-class thought leadership around use to target surveys on the basis of peoples behaviours the issues of greatest importance to our clients.
as how to build strong brands, compete effectively at a local Working horizontally.
On many clients as diverse as level, succeed in e-commerce, charge and maintain premium Indofoods in Indonesia, Pfizer globally and LOral in the US, prices.
We have continued to publish studies that have been we have teamed with other WPP companies to ensure that read, discussed and absorbed by top management around our insights are widely used and embedded to improve the the world.
Examples have been Millward Brown BrandZ effectiveness and efficiency of creative and media campaigns.
rankings globally and in China, India, Indonesia and 69 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
