Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Nominations Committee to the work of the Committee, the Board conducts detailed reviews Gareth Davis of succession and talent development each year and this review Chairman assists the Committee when considering these matters.
Diversity Over the last four years, we have remained supportive of the voluntary approach as an effective way to encourage companies to improve gender diversity in boardrooms.
Last year we met the gender diversity recommendations setout in Lord Davies Members and attendance eligibility report, Women on Boards, one year ahead of the 2015 deadline.
atmeetings held during the year ended Lord Davies recommended that women should account for at 31July2015: least 25 per cent of Board membership and this year 30 per cent of your Board are women.
This has increased from 12.5 per cent in Committee members Meeting attendance and eligibility July 2012.
G Davis Chairman 4 4 One of the core values of Wolseley is that we value our people.
T Bamford 4 4 We aim to recruit, retain and develop a high quality, diverse J Daly 4 4 workforce.
To achieve our objectives we will always appoint or hire 1 P Lpez 3 4 the best candidates available from the widest range of knowledge, skills and experience.
The diversity of our people whether in terms A Murray 4 4 of gender, race andethnicity, religious or political beliefs, marital D Shapland 4 4 status, sexual orientation, age, disability, culture, background or any J Simmonds 4 4 other measure strengthens our diversity of thought, which is vital to the growth and success of our business.
We are committed to Members who left during the year: providing our employees with an inclusive work environment in which 2 M Wareing 0 0 diversity is valued, discrimination in any form is not tolerated, and 1 Pilar Lpez was unable to attend one meeting of the Committee due to a scheduling conflict.
in which all our people feel empowered to reach their full potential.
2 Michael Wareing stepped down as a Non Executive Director with effect from 25 November 2014.
Details of our current gender diversity statistics are set out on page 38.
Dear Shareholder Effectiveness What the Committee has done during the year During this financial year, the Committee participated in the  review of effectiveness of the Board and its Last year I reported that, following a review of the composition Committees, further details of which can be found on page 62. of the Board and its Committees, three new Non Executive The review concluded that the Committee was well run and well Directors were appointed so the Board would benefit from having supported with good, clear papers and briefings being presented more members with retail and international experience, and from at the meetings.
The review also highlighted areas for continued having successors for the roles of the chairs of the Audit and improvement: monitoring Board and senior leadership succession Remuneration Committees.
I am pleased to say that the handovers and long-term talent development.
We have incorporated these into of the responsibilities of the roles of the chairs of the Audit and our priorities for 2015 16 as set out in the table below.
Remuneration Committees to Darren Shapland and Jacky Simmonds, respectively, have progressed smoothly and effectively in At the 2015 AGM, I shall be available to respond to any line with the succession plans for those roles.
questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the Committees activities.
The Committee has continued to review the balance, experience and skills of the Board, which was one of the priorities highlighted Nominations Committee priorities for 2015 16 in last years report.
The Board has a good balance of operational, international, commercial, financial, general management and 2015 16 priorities people skills and experience.
We will maintain our focus in this Continue to monitor Board and senior leadership succession.
area over the coming year so that, as our businesses develop, we Continue to monitor long-term talent development.
ensure that we continue to have the appropriate mix of skills and experience at Board level.
The other priority highlighted in last years report was to monitor executive and senior leadership succession.
The Nominations Committee has met more regularly during the year to give full consideration to succession planning at Board level and for senior leadership positions.
For example, during the year Gareth Davis the Committee considered and approved the implementation of on behalf of the Nominations Committee succession plans for the roles of the Group HR Director, the UK Managing Director and the Group Company Secretary.
In addition Wolseley plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
