82 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Responsibilities of the Board of Directors The Board has a schedule of matters Governance Code The Board is responsible for the long-term reserved for its approval and has a formal This report sets out how the Company success of the Group and for ensuring that structure of delegated authority, whereby applied the principles of the UK Corporate there is a framework of prudent and specified aspects of management and Governance Code the Code and the effective controls, which enables risk to be control of the Group have been delegated extent to which the Company complied assessed and managed.
The Board sets to the Board Committees, the Executive with the provisions of the Code in the the Companys strategic aims, ensures Directors, the Group Executive Committee period from 16 October 2015, being the that the necessary financial and human and the operating division management date the Companys shares were first resources are in place for the Company to teams.
The Board has agreed the terms of listed on the primary market of the London meet its objectives and reviews reference for the Audit, Risk, Nomination Stock Exchange, to 31 December 2015. management performance.
The Board and Remuneration Committees and the Prior to the Companys shares being listed, also sets the Companys values and role and responsibilities documents for the Code did not apply to the Company standards and ensures that its obligations the Chairman and the Chief Executive and although governance standards were to its shareholders and others are Officer, all of which can be found on high under private equity ownership there understood and met.
the Groups corporate website at were certain areas of the Code, mainly in http: investors.
The respect of the year end work of the Audit powers of the Directors are set out in Committee, the Annual General Meeting the Companys Articles of Association.
and re-election of Directors that the These are also available on the Companys Company did not comply with.
to ensure this report is more meaningful, we also set out the progress made in our governance arrangements up to the date of this report and our intentions for the GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE balance of 2016.
As at the date of this report, there were two areas of the Code THE BOARD with which we did not comply.
The first of BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITY, REPORTED ON PAGE 83 these is the balance of Independent Non-Executive Directors relative to other Directors on the Board provision B.
1 of the AUDIT RISK NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Code and the second is in respect of the requirement to conduct an evaluation of the Board and its Committees provision Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report B.
Steps are being taken to page 87 page 91 page 92 page 93 address these areas with the objective of being fully compliant during the course of EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 2016.
Further explanations around our See pages 94 intentions are given in the relevant part of this report.
GROUP GOVERNANCE AND OPERATING DIVISION DISCLOSURE CONTROL COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES COMMITTEE The Groups business model and strategy See page 94 See page 94 See page 94 The Groups business model and strategy are summarised on pages 24 to 51 of this Report.
83 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Matters reserved for the Board Board activity during the period Committee of in-depth assurance work in In accordance with its schedule of matters At each Board meeting, the Chief respect of those two areas.
Senior reserved, the Board is specifically Executive Officer presents a executives below Board level attend responsible for: comprehensive update on the strategy relevant parts of Board and Committee Approval of the Groups strategic aims and trading performance across the meetings in order to make presentations and objectives: Group and the Chief Financial Officer on their areas of responsibility.
This gives Approval of the annual operating and presents a detailed analysis of the the Board access to a broader group of capital expenditure budgets, including financial performance, both at Group and executives and helps the Directors make all investments in excess of 20m or operating division level.
In view of their assessments when considering the otherwise as required under the Boards critical importance to the business of the Groups succession plans.
The Board delegation of authority: Group, the Board reviews progress on the continually reviews the Groups strategy Approval of any material extension of new payments platform and cyber at each of its meetings and, in addition, the Groups activities into new business security at each of its meetings.
This is in holds one dedicated strategy meeting or geographic areas: addition to the regular review by the Audit each year.
Oversight of the Groups operations and review of performance against the Groups annual budget and its strategic aims and objectives: AT ITS MEETINGS DURING THE PERIOD, THE BOARD DISCHARGED ITS Approval of annual and half-year results RESPONSIBILITIES AND, IN PARTICULAR, IT REVIEWED: and any other Group trading or interim statements, the Annual Report and Accounts, accounting policies and, THE IPO ARRANGEMENTS, INCLUDING FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS, subject to shareholder approval, the THE ADOPTION OF A RANGE OF POLICIES INCLUDING THE LAUNCH OF appointment and remuneration of the AND OTHER MATTERS REQUIRED OF A THE COMPANYS 500M SENIOR external auditors: LISTED COMPANY.
Approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment of interim and the recommendation of final dividends: Changes to the Groups capital structure PROPOSAL BY VISA INC. TO STRATEGY.
and the issue of any securities: ACQUIRE VISA EUROPE.
Determining and monitoring the Groups risk appetite, systems of internal control, corporate governance structures, practices and approval authorities: THE APPOINTMENT OF AN INDEPENDENT Determining the Groups remuneration NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ON THE THE NEW PAYMENTS PLATFORM policy and the remuneration RECOMMENDATION OF THE AND CYBER SECURITY.
arrangements of the Executive NOMINATION COMMITTEE.
Directors and other senior executives, monitoring executive performance and succession planning: and THE GROUPS 2016 BUDGET AND Establishing and reviewing the Groups CROSS-BORDER ON-GOING TRADING AND culture, values and standards, and MARKET PLACES.
ensuring that the Groups obligations are understood and met.
The Board has a forward schedule of work to ensure that it meets its responsibilities REPORTS FROM THE KEY CORPORATE during the course of the current financial COMPANYS BROKERS.
The roles and activities of the Boards A number of development and strategy support presentations will be presented to Committees are described on pages 87 the Board during 2016. to 93.
84 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Board composition Board and Committee membership, The composition of the Boards As at 8 March 2016, the Board appointments and diversity Committees will be further strengthened comprisedthe Non-Executive Chairman Following the IPO, Advent and Bain upon the appointment of each new who was independent on appointment continue to be significant shareholders Independent Non-Executive Director.
inSeptember 2015, three Executive inthe Company and are each entitled to Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed Directors, three Independent Nonappoint one Non-Executive Director to Chairof the Risk Committee at the same Executive Directors and two NontheBoard for as long as they together time as her appointment to the Board on Executive Directors.
Biographical details with their respective associates as 1January 2016 and was appointed as a of all Directors can be found on pages 78 applicable are entitled to exercise control, member of the Remuneration Committee to 81 and on the Groups corporate website directly orindirectly, over the exercise of on 29 January 2016.
Sir Michael Rake was a at http: investors.
10% ormore ofthe votes able to be cast on member of the Remuneration Committee allor substantially all matters at general in the period between the IPO and The Chairman meetings of the Company.
Sir Michael Rake is also Sir Michael Rake was the Chairman appointees are James Brocklebank in amember of the Audit Committee, but throughout the period from the IPO respect of Advent and Robin Marshall willstep down from that Committee at tothedate of this Report.
such time as is appropriate.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief The Board is mindful of the need to also The current compositions of the Boards Executive Officer are separate and consider the interests of the Companys Committees are shown in the relevant distinct.
There are Board-approved new investors.
Prior to the IPO, the Committee sections on pages 87 to 93.
Rolesand Responsibilities documents for Boardappointed Sir Michael Rake as both positions, which clearly set out in Non-Executive Chairman and John Allan The search, selection and appointment writing their respective responsibilities.
and Martin Scicluna as Independent process for Non-Executive Directors is fully These documents can be found on Non-Executive Directors.
On 1 January described in the section on the Nomination the Groups corporate website at 2016, Deanna Oppenheimer was Committee on page 92. http: investors.
appointed to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Excluding the When appointing new Independent The Senior Independent Director Chairman, the current ratio of Non-Executive Directors, the Board will Martin Scicluna was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors to have regard to its Board Appointments Independent Director throughout the other Directors is 3:5, which falls short of Policy, which provides for diversity across period from the IPO to the date of this the Code requirement that, excluding the a range of measures, including skills, Report.
The Senior Independent Director Chairman, at least half of the Board should experience and gender in order to meet isavailable to shareholders should they comprise Independent Non-Executive the needs of the business.
The Board have concerns that cannot be resolved Directors.
The Board will continue to Appointments Policy can be found at through the normal channels involving review its composition and intends to http: investors.
theExecutive Directors or the Chairman.
comply fully with the requirements of the The Board-approved Role and Code by the end of the current financial Directors conflicts of interest Responsibilities of the Senior Independent year.
Until that objective is achieved, The Companies Act has codified the Director are set out in writing and can be theBoard believes that its current Directors duty to avoid a situation in found on the Groups corporate website composition and the composition of its which they have, or can have, an interest athttp: investors.
Committees will provide the appropriate that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, corporate governance balance in light with the interests of the Company.
A ofthe interests of Bain, Advent and Director will not be in breach of that duty othershareholders.
if the relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the other Directors.
85 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The Board has established a process to The Board agreed that each of John Allan, In order to fully support the Directors identify and authorise conflicts.
As part of Deanna Oppenheimer and Martin andto ensure they have a high level of that process, it has also agreed that the Scicluna are independent in character and knowledge about the Groups businesses Nomination Committee should review the judgement and the above matters have and our strategy, a series of development authorised conflicts every six months or not restricted or impaired his or her and strategy support presentations will more frequently if a new potential conflict effectiveness and independence.
begiven to the Board after each of its arises for an existing Director.
This programme, in addition to Nomination Committee reviews the Re-appointment of Directors the normal business reviews, will ensure interests of candidates prior to making In accordance with the Code and the that all members of the Board have recommendations for the appointment Companys Articles of Association, all sufficient and equal knowledge to be able ofnew Directors.
The Nomination Directors are subject to election by to contribute fully to the Boards review Committee and Board applied the above shareholders.
The Board has agreed that and development of strategy.
principles and process throughout the the Directors will be subject to annual period to the date of this report and election.
Non-Executive Directors are At regular Board meetings and, where confirm that these have operated initially appointed for a three-year term appropriate, Committee meetings, the effectively.
and, subject to review by the Nomination Directors receive updates and presentations Committee and continued annual on business developments.
In addition to Confirmation of Director independence electionby shareholders, can serve gaining a better understanding of those At its March 2016 Board meeting, as uptoamaximum of three such terms.
businesses, these programmes also partof a thorough review of corporate increase the exposure of senior talent to governance against the Code, the Board Board induction and development theBoard and give the Board presence considered the independence of the An induction programme tailored to across the Group.
Non-Executive Directors against the meetthe needs of individual Directors is criteria specified in the Code and provided for each new Director.
Overall, Operation of the Board and determined that John Allan, Martin the aim of the induction programme is itsCommittees Scicluna and Deanna Oppenheimer tointroduce new Directors to the Prior to each Board meeting, the wereindependent.
Groupsbusiness, its operations and Chairmanmeets with the Independent itsgovernance arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors in the absence In reaching the above determination of ofthe other Non-Executive Directors independence, the Board considered the Such inductions typically include andthe Executive Directors.
following: meetings with senior management, both That John Allan and Deanna at the Group level and within the operating The Directors have access to a fully Oppenheimer currently hold the divisions, where they receive a thorough encrypted electronic portal system, positions of Chairman and Independent briefing on the business and meet with the whichenables them to receive and Non-Executive Director at Tesco plc: management teams.
Individual induction review Board and Committee papers and requirements are monitored by the quickly and securely using electronic The payments made prior to the IPO by Chairman, with the support of the Group tablets.
Scheduled Board and Committee AB JV Global S. r. l the then ultimate Company Secretary, to ensure that meetings are held physically and most parent company of the Company to newlyappointed Directors gain sufficient ad-hoc meetings are held by phone.
John Allan and Martin Scicluna, which knowledge about the Group to enable TheGroup Company Secretary attends were disclosed fully in the IPO them to contribute to the Boards allBoard meetings.
Prospectus and in the Remuneration deliberations as swiftly as possible.
report on page 106 of this Annual Theinduction content and process will The papers in respect of the Audit, Risk, Report and Accounts.
evolve as we build on the experience of Nomination and Remuneration inducting each new Director.
Committees are circulated to all the Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership.
Major decisions taken under the Groups Delegation of Authority are reported to the next Boardmeeting.
86 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued The Group Company Secretary, who was Board meetings and attendance Board evaluation appointed by the Board, is responsible for The Board and its Committees have regular In view of the short period of time between advising and supporting the Chairman, the scheduled meetings throughout the year the IPO and the date of this Report, the Board and its Committees on corporate and supplementary meetings are held as Board has not yet conducted an evaluation governance matters as well as ensuring and when necessary.
The table below of its effectiveness.
However, the Board that there is a smooth flow of information shows the number of scheduled Board recognises the benefit of a thorough Board to enable effective decision making.
All andCommittee meetings attended by and Committee evaluation process, and Directors have access to the advice and eachDirector out of the number convened believes the time to do this will be around services of the Group Company Secretary during the time served by each Director the first anniversary of the IPO, towards the and the Group General Counsel and, onthe Board or relevant Committee during end of 2016.
The output from that review through them, have access to the period.
Non-attendance at Board and will be discussed by the Board and the independent professional advice in Committee meetings was due to: in the actions arising, which will be monitored respect of their duties, at the Companys case of Rick Medlock, a commitment bythe Chairman, will be disclosed in the expense.
The Group Company Secretary madeprior to joining the Board: and in 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
acts as secretary to the Board and its thecases of Sir Michael Rake and James Committees.
Brocklebank, unavoidable business Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, commitments.
In each case, the Director under the leadership of the Senior In accordance with its Articles of gave input to the Chairman of the meeting Independent Director and with input Association, the Company has granted on the business to be conducted prior to fromthe Executive Directors, will aqualifying third-party indemnity, to the the meeting.
Eachof the Directors has conductan evaluation of the Chairman.
extent permitted by law, to each Director given a firm commitment to being able to and the Group Company Secretary.
The give sufficient time to enable them to fulfil The Groups performance management Company also maintains Directors and their duties, including the attendance of system applies to management at all Officers liability insurance.
The individual performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed separately As well as the scheduled meetings, the by the Chairman and the Remuneration Directors attended additional Board and Committee.
Further details of the Committee meetings.
These were mainly Executive Directors performance in respect of the IPO of the Company and measures and objectives are given in other strategic matters that the Chairman theRemuneration report on pages 97 and Chief Executive Officer decided and 109. should be considered by the Board prior tothe next scheduled meeting.
Despite these meetings being held at relatively short notice, there was full attendance ateach of these additional meetings.
Individual Director attendance at scheduled meetings between the IPO and 3 March 2016 Audit Risk Nomination Remuneration Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Sir Michael Rake 4 4 2 3 N A 2 2 2 3 Martin Scicluna 4 4 3 3 1 1 2 2 3 3 John Allan 4 4 3 3 1 1 2 2 3 3 1 Deanna Oppenheimer 2 2 N A 1 1 N A 1 1 Philip Jansen 4 4 N A N A N A N A Ron Kalifa 4 4 N A N A N A N A Rick Medlock 3 4 N A N A N A N A James Brocklebank 3 4 N A N A N A N A Robin Marshall 4 4 N A N A N A N A 1 Deanna Oppenheimer joined the Board on 1 January 2016 and the Remuneration Committee on 29 January 2016.
87 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Review the content of the Annual Report THE BOARDS COMMITTEES and advise the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and understandable: The Audit Committees Review the Companys internal financial Audit Committee focus is on the integrity of controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems: our financial statements, Review and assess the annual Group the effectiveness of Internal Audit Plan: Monitor and review the effectiveness of financial and internal the Companys internal audit function: Establish and oversee the Companys controls and the assurance relationship with its external auditor, provided by the Internal including the monitoring of their independence, and the approval of Audit function as our theexternal auditors remuneration andterms of engagement: thirdline of defence.
Review and approve the annual externalaudit plan: and Committee Chairman: Assess the effectiveness of the Martin Scicluna external auditprocess.
Other members: The Committee has a forward work Composition of the Committee John Allan, CBE programme to ensure that it will meet its Martin Scicluna, John Allan and Sir Independent Non-Executive Director responsibilities in the current financial Michael Rake were appointed to the Sir Michael Rake year.
To enable it to carry out its duties and Committee prior to the IPO.
The Chairman Chairman responsibilities effectively, the Committee of the Company being a member of the relies on information and support from Committee is permitted by the Code Meetings per year: management across the business.
The full provision C. 3.1 because he was terms of reference of the Committee are independent on appointment as available at http: investors.
However, Sir Michael Rake or from the Group Company Secretary at intends to step down as a member of the Companys registered office.
the Committee when an additional Meetings also regularly attended by: Independent Non-Executive Director Philip Jansen, Chief Executive Officer: Principal activities of the Audit is appointed to the Board and the Rick Medlock, Chief Financial Officer: Committee during the period Committee.
Ruth Prior, Deputy Chief Financial Officer: In the period from the date of the IPO in Michelle Valentine, Group October 2015 to the date of this report, Role of the Committee Financial Controller: theCommittee reviewed the following: The Board has delegated to the Tim Leather, Chief Internal Auditor: Committee responsibility for overseeing Derek Woodward, Group Financial the financial reporting, internal and Company Secretary: The 2015 full year results including external audit and controls, reviewing the KPMG LLP KPMG.
accounting issues and judgements scope of the annual audit and non-audit andthe processes underpinning work undertaken by external auditors and theirpreparation: for making recommendations to the Board Information in support of the Link to in relation to the appointment of the statements in relation to going concern, Directors biographies Companys internal and external auditors.
longer-term viability, fair, balanced and pages 78-81 understandable, and disclosure of In accordance with its terms of reference, information to the auditors.
Martin Scicluna and Sir Michael Rake are considered the Committee, which reports its findings by the Board to have recent and relevant financial to the Board, is authorised to: experience, as required by the Code.
External audit Monitor the integrity of the financial The annual audit plan and scope: statements including annual and The auditors year-end report.
half-year results and any Group trading or interim statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: 88 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Internal audit and controls to matters that it considers to be resultin decisions being made by KPMG The strengthening and resourcing important by virtue of their impact on the on behalf of management: and the fee oftheinternal audit function : Group results and remuneration of senior arrangements were not dependent on the The internal audit plan and the management, or the level of complexity, results of the work.
KPMG also complied outputsfrom internal audit activity: judgement or estimation in their with the independence requirements as The new payments platform application in preparation of the Groups set out by the APB Ethical Standards for assurancereport.
The IPO-related issues considered by the Audit Committee audit and non-audit fees payable to Governance during the year are shown opposite.
KPMGare not expected to recur in 2016.
The effectiveness of the external auditprocess.
External auditors KPMG have confirmed their independence On 19 September 2012, KPMG were as auditors of the Company in a letter Prior to the IPO, the Committee appointed as the auditors to the addressed to the Directors.
decided to strengthen the Internal Audit WorldpayGroup and Michael Harper, function, leading to the appointment in aPartner of KPMG, was appointed At its meeting in March 2016, the Audit September 2015 of ahighly experienced SeniorStatutory Auditor.
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Chief Internal Auditor.
The new Chief the external audit process.
This included Internal Auditor has the authority of the A policy is in place which requires all reviewing comprehensive papers from Committee and executive management to material non-audit work proposed to both management and the external restructure and enhance the skills of the becarried out by the external auditors to auditors, which set out the planning and Internal Audit function in order to enhance bepre-authorised by the Chief Financial execution of the conduct of the audit.
the quality of assurance work provided Officer and or the Committee in order TheAudit Committee also held a meeting tothe Group.
toensure that the provision of non-audit with the external auditors in the absence services does not impair the external of management to discuss further.
Integrity of the results announcements auditors independence or objectivity.
Uponthe recommendation of the Audit Within its terms of reference, the Committee Thepolicy is published on the Groups Committee, KPMG will be proposed for is authorised to monitor the integrity of the corporate website at re-election by shareholders at the AGM annual and half-year results, including a http: investors.
In reaching its review of the significant judgements decision to propose KPMG for re-election, contained in them.
At its meetings prior to An analysis of the fees earned by the the AuditCommittee took into account the IPO and in December 2015 and January Groups auditors for audit and non-audit theeffectiveness of the external audit and March 2016, the Committee reviewed services is disclosed in Note 2e to the process, and the objectivity and anumber of papers prepared by the Group financial statements.
Of the 4.2m total independence and the length of tenure Financial Controller which set out the critical fee payable to KPMG in 2015, 3.2m of KPMG as external auditors.
accounting judgements applied to the waspaid in respect of the work they halfyear and full year accounts and other conducted in connection with the significant accounting matters such as Companys IPO in October 2015 0.5m quality of earnings, going concern, longerinrespect of the audit of the Groups term viability and confirmation that the historic information and 2.7m in respect Groups accounting policies were of non-audit services as Reporting appropriate and unchanged.
It also gave Accountant in connection with the IPO.
consideration to a number of key disclosure The auditors were determined to be the considerations post-IPO and the impact of appropriate advisors for the Group to new accounting developments.
engage, given the scale and complexity ofthe work involved.
This work did At each of the meetings, the Audit notrepresent a threat to KPMGs Committee also reviewed papers prepared independence, as it was permissible work by the external auditor, which included under auditor independence guidelines: their view on significant and judgemental was performed by a different and reporting and accounting matters.
independent engagement team: did not The Committee pays particular attention give rise to financial entries: did not 89 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the year Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern: Management reviewed the appropriateness of The Committee considered papers prepared by management and, preparing the Group financial statements for the half year and taking into account the key assumptions and risks and theexternal full year on a going concern basis and presented papers to the auditors review of these papers, concluded that managements Committee in August 2015 and March 2016. recommendation to prepare accounts on a goingconcern basis was appropriate.
The Groups accounting policies and application of them: Each Having considered the paper, the Committee agreed with year, the Group Accounting Policies Committee conducts a managements proposals.
review of the Groups accounting policies toensure they remain appropriate.
The findings from thisreview were presented to the Audit Committee in December2015 as part of the Financial Controller update.
Presentation of financial information: During the year, The Committee considered managements proposals and agreedto management proposed a number of changes to the adopt them.
Net revenue was introduced as it was felt that it presentation of financial information including the introduction enables a simpler discussion of the relationship between revenue of net revenue being total revenue less interchange and and profitability following recent changes in regulation around scheme fees on the face of the income statement.
Accounting for the IPO, share issues and refinancing: The The Committee reviewed the papers prepared by the Group IPOprocess gave rise to a number of judgemental and complex Financial Controller in which these issues were raised and afterdue accounting issues which were brought to the attention of the discussion agreed with managements approach.
Audit Committee through papers presented by management.
These included accounting for the IPO transaction costs, accounting for the transitional and all-employee share awards, and net investment hedging considerations.
Valuation of Visa Europe membership shares and related CVR The Committee considered the papers prepared by management liabilities: As at 30 June 2015 and on IPO completion, the Visa covering the initial recognition and subsequent revaluation.
Europe asset was recognised in the Groups balance sheet as a Following detailed discussions with management and with FVTPL financial asset with a fair value of nil.
TheCVR liabilities theexternal auditor who also provided critical challenge and were recognised at nil fair value on initial recognition.
assessment of the key accounting judgements, the Committee Following the announcement in November 2015 of Visa Inc. s endorsed managements proposals.
intention to purchase Visa Europe, the financial assets and related liabilities were revalued to fair value through the income statement.
Management prepared and presented several papers to the Committee which discussed the initial recognition of the Visa Europe asset and related CVR liabilities, and the subsequent revaluation.
Audit procedures performed by KPMG and reported to the Committee included an assessment of the facts and circumstances and rights and obligations attached to the Visa Europe asset and CVR liabilities: a review of the key input assumptions within the valuation model: and a review of the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the fair value hierarchy and sensitivities.
Separately disclosed items: The Group has an established The Committee considered managements presentation of policy of separately disclosing items that it believes, due to separately disclosed items, in particular items relating to the their size or nature, are not the result of normal operating revaluation of the Visa Europe asset and related CVR liabilities, performance and should be disclosed separately to allow a and the costs associated with the IPO and refinancing.
more comparable view of underlying trading performance.
Having considered the matter, the Committee agreed to adopt managements proposed presentation.
90 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the year continued Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee Accuracy, cut-off and classification of revenue and settlement The Committee reviewed the strategy document presented by balances: The processing of payments, from which the Group KPMG and agreed with the assessment of significant risks in generates the vast majority of its revenues, is dependent on relation to the audit.
The Committee also reviewed the findings of highly complex IT systems with a number of different bases for the external auditor at both the half year and the year end in calculating revenue and for settling funds.
Audit procedures respect of the risk.
performed by KPMG and reported to the Committee included: The Committee would review any changes in accounting policy, testing the design, implementation and operating material unusual transactions or any other matters brought to their effectiveness of applicable controls: performing reconciliations attention by management in respect of the risk there werenone of cash received to revenue recognised in the year: and during the current year.
obtaining third-party verification of settlement amounts.
Where applicable, IT audit experts were also used throughout the The controls and processes implemented by management audit process.
areconsistent with previous years and are considered to be appropriate by the Committee.
Considering all of the above, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the appropriateness of the reported numbers in the Annual Report.
Completeness of trade receivables impairment provisions: The Committee reviewed the strategy document presented by Provisions are made in respect of impairment of trade KPMG and agreed with the assessment of significant risks in receivables where there is objective evidence that the Group relation to the audit.
The Committee also reviewed the findings of cannot recover the original expected cash flows from the trade the external auditor at both the half year and the year end in receivable due to events since the trade receivable wasinitially respect of the risk.
recognised, or where a merchant defaults or is expected to The Committee would review any changes in accounting policy, default on their obligation to deliver services for which the material unusual transactions or any other matters brought to their Group has already processed the corresponding payment attention by management in respect of the risk there werenone transaction.
The provisioning policy is reviewed annually by during the current year.
management to ensure it is still appropriate andbad debt provisions are discussed as part of the monthly management The controls and processes implemented by management accounts review process.
Material bad debts are reported to areconsistent with previous years and are considered to be the Audit Committee.
Audit procedures performed by KPMG appropriate by the Committee.
and reported to the Committee included: assessment of the Considering all of the above, the Committee concluded that itwas design and operating effectiveness of thekey controls within satisfied with the appropriateness of the reported numbers in the the Groups merchant onboarding andon-going monitoring Annual Report.
processes: consideration of cash collection from merchants subsequent to the year-end: and acritical assessment of the output of the Groups internal monitoring and review processes.
91 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Principal activities of the Risk Committee THE BOARDS COMMITTEES during the period At its meetings during the period, the With the support of the Committee discharged its responsibilities Risk Committee Group Governance and as listed above and in particular: Reviewed the enterprise risk Control Committee, the management framework: Risk Committee will focus Reviewed risk governance and the risk work plan for the year, ensuring it is fit on the Enterprise Risk for purpose and adequately resourced: Reviewed the principal risks on a Framework, existing and specific and thematic basis: and emerging risks on a Developed the approach to its workprogramme for the year thematic basis, including ahead, including the division of work betweenthe Risk Committee and reputational and theAuditCommittee.
Committee Chair: Risk appetite and approach to risk Deanna Oppenheimer management The Boards risk appetite and the Groups Other members: approach to risk management are more Martin Scicluna fully described in the Principal risks and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Composition of the Committee uncertainties section on pages 55 to 66.
John Allan, CBE John Allan and Martin Scicluna were Such a systemis designed to manage Independent Non-Executive Director appointed prior to the IPO.
Deanna rather than eliminate the risk of failure Oppenheimer was appointed to the to achieve business objectives and can Meetings per year: Committee as Chair on 1 January 2016. provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Role of the Committee or loss.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to articulate Meetings also regularly attended by: theBoards risk appetite to management Philip Jansen, Chief Executive Officer: and to review the Groups enterprise risk Rick Medlock, Chief Financial Officer: management framework, key risks and Ron Kalifa, Deputy Chairman and emerging risks that may affect the Executive Director: long-term success of the Group.
Ian Whyte, Chief Risk Officer: Mark Edwards, Group General Counsel: The full terms of reference of Tim Minall, Group Compliance Director: the Committee are available at Alan Osborne, Chief Information http: investors.
com or Security Officer: fromthe Group Company Secretary Derek Woodward, Group attheCompanys registered office.
Link to Directors biographies pages 78-81 92 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Board Appointments Policy THE BOARDS COMMITTEES Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and with We will further strengthen due regard for the benefits of diversity Nomination the Board in 2016. onthe Board.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating the Committee balance of skills, experience and knowledge of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board.
The Board Appointments Policy recognises the benefits of diversity, Composition of the Committee including gender diversity and reinforces Sir Michael Rake, Martin Scicluna and the Boards principle that appointments John Allan.
aremade on merit, in line with its current and future requirements, and reflect the Role of the Committee UKlisting and international activity of the The Board has delegated to the Group.
The appointments made prior to  for reviewing and theIPO and up to the date of this report proposing appointments to the Board and have been in line with that policy.
for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or its Committees.
The Board endorses the aims of the Committee Chairman: The principal responsibility of the Davies report entitled 'Women on Boards'.
Sir Michael Rake Committee is to make recommendations A copy of the Groups Board Appointments tothe Board on all new appointments to Policy can be found on our website at Other members: theBoard, having regard for an appropriate http: investors.
Martin Scicluna balance of skills, knowledge, experience and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director diversity.
The Committee ensures that there Non-Executive appointments John Allan, CBE is clarity in respect of the role description International search and selection firms Independent Non-Executive Director and capabilities required for such Spencer Stuart and the Zygos Partnership appointments.
The Committee is also have been used by the Chairman to identify Meetings per year: responsible for reviewing, at least every six a range of suitable candidates for review by months, or more frequently if required, the the Nomination Committee.
As a result of Directors potential conflicts of interest and this process, Deanna Oppenheimer was for making recommendations to the Board appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016. in respect of authorising such matters.
The Chairman and the Committee will Meetings also regularly attended by: continue their work in 2016 to maintain Philip Jansen, Chief Executive Officer: The full terms of reference of the Committee astrong Board.
Derek Woodward, Group Company are available at www.
or from the Group Company Secretary at Spencer Stuart and The Zygos Partnership the Companys registered office.
also conduct executive search assignments for the Group from time to time.
Principal activities of the Nomination Link to Committee during the period Directors biographies At its meetings during the period, the pages 78-81 Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and in particular: Conducted a thorough process and made recommendations to the Board to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director to strengthen the Board: Considered the re-appointment of theDirectors before making a recommendation to the Board regarding their re-election at the 2016 AGM: and Considered the Directors potential conflicts of interests.
93 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information THE BOARDS COMMITTEES Our remuneration Remuneration philosophy and framework have a strong emphasis Committee onpay for performance andare fully aligned with our strategy.
Composition of the Committee The members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed as a Committee Chairman: member of the Committee on 29 January John Allan, CBE 2016.
Sir Michael Rake was a member of the Committee from the date of the IPO Other members: until 29 January 2016 the Chairmans Deanna Oppenheimer membership of the Remuneration Independent Non-Executive Director Committee was permitted under the Code Martin Scicluna as he was independent on appointment as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman provision D. 3.1.
Meetings per year: Principal activities of the Remuneration Committee during the period The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing the appropriate remuneration framework Meetings also regularly attended by: which can attract, retain and motivate Philip Jansen, Chief Executive Officer: keymanagement, whilst ensuring full Andy Doyle, Chief HR Officer: compliance with best practice expected in Martyn Fisher, Reward Director: companies within the FTSE 100 group.
Groups Remuneration Policy and a report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work carried out by the Remuneration Link to Committee during the period, including an Directors biographies explanation of how it applies the Principles pages 78-81 of the Code in respect of Executive Directors remuneration, is included withinthe Remuneration report on pages N either attends in respect of matters relating to their own remuneration.
94 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Management Committees Group Governance and Whistleblowing Group Executive Committee Control Committee The Worldpay Way also includes full details The Chief Executive Officer leads the Group The Group has established this Committee of the Groups Whistleblowing helpline, Executive Committee, which comprises the to provide executive management with a which allows employees to raise matters in most senior business leaders and function forum to review risk on an enterprise wide confidence, should they not wish to raise heads.
It is responsible for the day-to-day basis and provides and escalation point for them with their line manager or a member management of the Group and meets operating division risks.
The Committee of the Executive Committee.
All matters monthly to focus on a range of issues in also reviews the activities of the Groups raised through the helpline are investigated relation to the strategic and operational assurance functions and operational risk thoroughly and regardless of the outcome, development and performance of the profile and approves the annual reported to the Risk Committee.
The biographical details of Compliance Plan for review by the Risk themembers of the Group Executive Committee.
The membership of this Risk management and internal control Committee are disclosed on pages 14 and 15.
Committee includes executive A risk aware culture is embedded management, the Chief Risk Officer, the throughout the organisation with every Operating division management teams Chief Internal Auditor, the Chief Information single employee responsible for the The Groups operating divisions Global Security Officer, the Group Compliance management of risk.
eCom, WPUK and WPUS are managed Director and the Group Company Secretary.
bytheir respective Managing Directors The Group operates a 'three lines of and dedicated management teams.
defence model, which clearly identifies Management team meetings are held Culture and the Worldpay Way accountabilities and responsibilities as monthly to review strategic, operational The distillation of a set of everyday follows: and financial performance.
These working principles and behaviours into the meetings are attended by members Worldpay Way sets the tone from the top 1. Business line management has primary oftheExecutive Committee to ensure and supports a positive corporate culture.
responsibility for the management of sufficient oversight and co-ordination The Worldpay Way, which was developed risk: oncross-Group developments.
and launched in 2015, is based on three core elements: 'Work Smart, Be Spirited 2.
Risk and compliance functions assist Disclosure Committee and Be Supportive'.
During 2015 the management in developing their The Disclosure Committee is responsible implementation of the Worldpay Way was approach to fulfil their responsibilities: forimplementing and monitoring systems supported through our leadership teams, and and controls in respect of the management backed by internal communications and of inside information and the disclosure using various training programmes to 3.
The Internal Audit function checks that ofsuch information to the market in ensure it became embedded throughout the risk management process and risk accordance with the Companys obligations the Group.
In addition to our core management framework are effective under the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure management and technical training, and efficient.
The Committee specific training programmes are in place meets to consider the Groups disclosure to support our legal and regulatory Prior to the IPO, the Board carried out obligations and to review all results compliance in areas such as anti-bribery an enterprise-wide assessment of the announcements following certification and corruption, anti-money laundering, principal risks of the business.
Further fromindividual executives from across the competition law, data protection and details of our risk management system and Group.
The Committee comprises the Chief information security.
In 2015, the Group the principal risks of the Group and how Executive Officer, who is the Chairman, the also launched its own Masters Programme Chief Financial Officer, the Group General they are being managed and mitigated qualification in partnership with Middlesex Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, the are included in the Principal risks and University.
Investor Relations Director and the Group uncertainties section on page 55.
Participation in these training The Audit Committee oversees the activity programmes, compliance with their of the Group Internal Audit 'GIA' function.
requirements and the output from our The role of GIA is to evaluate the annual colleague survey is regularly effectiveness of the Groups risk reviewed by the Executive Committee and management, control and governance the Board to ensure we maintain a positive processes.
As mentioned on page 88, the culture across the organisation.
Audit Committee supported the appointment of a high-calibre Chief Internal Auditor with the remit of strengthening and enhancing the skills within the function in order to enhance the quality of assurance work provided to the Group.
95 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information A risk-based internal audit plan is prepared out independently by the external Fair, balanced and understandable by GIA on an annual basis.
The audit plan, auditors, KPMG, and the Group Internal The Directors confirm that they consider which is reviewed and approved by the Audit function.
Regular reports on control the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as Audit Committee, considers key risks and issues are presented to the Audit a whole, is fair, balanced and emerging strategic risks maintained in the Committee by the Chief Internal Auditor.
understandable and provides the risk registers.
In addition, as part of the The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness information necessary for shareholders to annual planning cycle, GIA consult with of the system of internal control, can assess the Companys position and Senior Management across the business, confirm that necessary actions have been performance, business model and consider the results of previous audits or are being taken to remedy any strategy.
In making this confirmation, the internal and external and monitor the significant failings or weaknesses Directors took into account their implementation status of audit identified from that review.
knowledge of the business, which is kept recommendations.
This activity ensures up to date with regular reports, updates that the Internal Audit function focuses on Internal control and risk management in and business reviews circulated prior to the most significant risk areas and related relation to the financial reporting process and discussed at each Board meeting, and key controls.
The Group has a thorough assurance supplemented by a variety of written process in place in respect of the reports, verbal updates and presentations A formal audit report is issued for each preparation, verification and approval of given at Board and Committee meetings internal audit undertaken, this includes an periodic financial reports.
This process as well as a regular flow of information overall rating and clear actions to be includes: about the business between meetings.
undertaken to resolve control issues The involvement of highly experienced The Directors then took into account the raised.
and professional employees: thorough preparation and verification Formal sign-offs from appropriate process in respect of the Annual Report The results of audit activity are also business unit managing directors and and Accounts, which included sufficient presented to the Audit Committee each finance directors: time for the Directors to review the Annual quarter.
This includes highlighting Comprehensive review by key internal Report and Accounts and to feed in their common issues, themes and areas of Group functions: comments to management before concern.
A monthly list of internal control A transparent process to ensure full approving the document.
issues is also maintained and reported to disclosure of information to the the business for action.
external auditors: Disclosure of information to auditors Engagement of a professional and Each of the Directors who held office at On a day-to-day basis, the Chief Internal experienced firm of external auditors: the date of approval of this Directors Auditor reports to the Chief Financial Review and challenge by executive report confirms that: so far as he she is Officer.
There is a clear reporting line to management: and aware, there is no relevant audit the Audit Committee Chair and it is the Oversight by the Groups Audit information of which the Companys role of the Audit Committee to assess the Committee, involving among other auditors are unaware: and that he she has performance of the Chief Internal Auditor duties : taken all steps that he she ought to have and Group Internal Audit function.
This is A detailed review of key financial taken as a Director to make him her aware stated in the Audit Committee terms of reporting judgements which have of any relevant audit information and to reference.
been discussed by management: establish that the Companys auditors are Review and, where appropriate, aware of that information.
Review of the effectiveness of the risk challenge on matters including: management and internal control the consistency of, and any Going concern systems changes to, significant The Boards statement in respect of During the period, the Board, through the accounting policies and practices adopting the going concern basis of work of the Risk Committee and the Audit during the year: accounting is given in Note 1a to the Committee, has conducted a review of the significant adjustments resulting financial statements and on page 66. effectiveness of the Groups system of risk from the external audit: management and internal control.
Prior to the going concern assumption: Viability the IPO, there was an on-going process for the viability statement: and The Boards statement in respect of the the identification and evaluation of risk the Companys statement on Groups longer-term viability is given on management and internal control internal control systems.
This has been improved since the IPO and remains in place up to the The above process, which is reviewed by date of the financial statements.
The work the Audit Committee, provides comfort to conducted by management is the Board when considering whether the complemented, supported and challenged Annual Report and Accounts are fair, by the controls assurance work carried balanced and understandable.
96 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance report continued Shareholder communication and The Company uses its website and email engagement as the primary means of communication The Company places considerable with its shareholders.
This arrangement importance on communication with its provides significant benefits for shareholders.
The Vice Chairman, Chief shareholders and the Company in terms of Executive Officer and the Chief Financial timeliness of information, reduced Officer are closely involved in investor environmental impact and cost.
The relations supported by the Investor Groups Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Relations function, which has primary is available to all shareholders and can be responsibility for day-to-day accessed via the Companys website at communication with investors.
Shareholders may still opt to receive their communications in a The Board recognises the importance of paper format.
The Groups interim results promoting mutual understanding between are also published on the Companys the Company and its shareholders website, together with other through a programme of engagement.
It is announcements and documents issued to intended that in 2016 this will include the the market, such as trading updates and maintenance of a regular dialogue presentations.
Enquiries from between the Board and senior shareholders may also be addressed to management and major shareholders.
the Groups investor relations function During the period leading up to the IPO through the contacts provided on the and to the date of this report, the Chief Groups website.
Executive Officer, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer conducted a large All shareholders are entitled to attend the number of meetings with institutional Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are investors, and it is intended that this given the opportunity to lodge their votes dialogue will develop further in 2016 by way of proxy and or to attend such through a programme of meetings with meetings in person where they have the shareholders and potential shareholders, opportunity to ask questions of the Board as well as through presentations and including the chairs of the Board meetings at investor conferences, and Committees, vote by way of a poll and day-to-day contact with the Investor meet informally with the Directors to Relations function.
To further support discuss any issues they may wish to raise.
engagement with our shareholders, we also actively engage with sell-side In January 2016, the Chairman of the research analysts who provide their Remuneration Committee conducted a recommendations to the market.
consultation with the Groups major shareholders and shareholder The Company makes every effort to representative organisations to gauge ascertain investor perceptions of the their views in respect of the Groups Company and regular reports of investor remuneration policy and framework and and analyst feedback are provided to the specifically the proposed performance Board.
The Investor Relations Director and measures and targets for the next award the Companys brokers present to the under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
views expressed by shareholders were taken into account when finalising executive remuneration arrangements.
