Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Leadership It is important to the Board that it meets members of senior Board members management from around the Groups businesses, as it As at 31 July 2015, the Board was made up of 10 members further enhances the Boards understanding of operations, consisting of the Chairman, three Executive Directors and six theimplementation of strategy and the changing dynamics of NonExecutive Directors.
Biographical details for each of the themarkets in which the business operates.
Directors in office as at 31 July 2015 are shown on pages 54 and 55.
In order to provide the Board with greater visibility of the Groups The Non Executive Directors and the Chairman are each operations and to provide further opportunities to meet senior considered by the Board to be independent and free of any management, the Board intends to visit at least one of the Groups relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of business unit locations each year.
Such visits allow the Board to theirindependent judgement.
gain a deeper understanding of local market dynamics and assess management performance and potential.
In addition, members of The Company is registered in Jersey and is tax resident in the Board periodically visit business units and meet management Switzerland.
During the year all meetings of the Board, Committees around the Group.
This year the Board visited the Groups of the Board and all other meetings requiring decisions of a strategic businesses in the Nordic region and the USA.
or substantive nature were held outside the United Kingdom.
Each Director is required to attend all meetings of the Board Board visit to Denmark and Sweden and Committees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior In January 2015, the Board and Committee meetings were held management from across the Group and advisers attend some of in Copenhagen, Denmark.
The Board met with senior executives the meetings for the discussion of specific items in greater depth.
from our Nordic businesses and received detailed updates on The Board met regularly during the year, with Board and Committee operational performance and major initiatives being undertaken meetings scheduled over two or three day periods.
There were six bythose businesses.
Board members visited several operational scheduled meetings and details of attendance are shown in the sites in Denmark and Sweden to get a deeper understanding of table below.
the developments in the businesses and to meet with branchbased employees.
The sites visited included Stark and Silvan Members and attendance eligibility branches in Denmark and Beijer branches in Sweden.
atmeetings held during the year ended 31July2015: 1 Board visit to the USA Board members: Scheduled meetings: attendance and eligibility : G Davis 6 6 In May 2015, the Board and Committee meetings were held in T Bamford 6 6 New York, USA.
Senior executives from Ferguson, our business in the USA, met with the Board and discussed the business strategy J Daly 6 6 and performance.
The Board also visited Fergusons newlyP Lpez 6 6 opened ship hub in Secaucus, New Jersey and met the facilitys J Martin 6 6 management and workforce to get a deeper understanding of I Meakins 6 6 the progress being made to expand in the New York metropolitan area.
For more information on the businesses expansion in New A Murray 6 6 York see page 2.
D Shapland 6 6 J Simmonds 6 6 F Roach 6 6 Members who left during the year: 2 M Wareing 2 2 1 I n addition to the scheduled meetings, two unscheduled meetings were convened at short notice to deal with matters that needed to be considered before the next scheduled meeting.
All Directors were given notice of each meeting and some of them were unable to attend due to prior commitments which could not be rearranged.
One meeting was attended by Ms Lpez and MessrsDaly, Davis, Martin, Meakins, Murray and Roach and the other meeting by Ms Lpez and Messrs Davis, Murray and Roach.
2 M ichael Wareing stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 25 November 2014.
Wolseley plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Leadership continued Board decision-making Key Committees of the Board The Board provides strong leadership to the Company and 1 Provided below is an overview of our key committees : continues to have effective and constructive relationships with both the management team and shareholders.
The Non Executive Audit Committee Directors play an essential role in the composition of the Board due 2 Chaired by: Darren Shapland to the range of skills and expertise they bring.
The Board continues to have a strong culture of open debate where all Directors are Number of meetings in the year: 5 actively encouraged to challenge existing assumptions and to raise Role of the Committee difficult questions.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and Certain strategic decision-making powers and authorities of the monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting Company are reserved as matters for the Board.
The formal processes, audit internal and external, controls and matters schedule of matters reserved for its decision was updated during relating to fraud and whistleblowing.
the year to incorporate provisions relating to financial reporting, communication and policies, and other minor administrative matters.
For more information on the Audit Committee andtheAuditCommittee Report See pages 66 to 70 The principal matters reserved for the Board are set out on page 59.
Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by members of the Executive Committee.
Remuneration Committee Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committee which will Chaired by: Jacky Simmonds consider them in accordance with its terms of reference.
Details of Number of meetings in the year: 6 the Wolseley plc Board and Committee governance structure are set out on page 53.
The formal terms of reference for each of the Role of the Committee Committees of the Board, which have been approved by the Board The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the and comply with the Code, are available from the Group Company framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, Secretary and can also be found on the Wolseley plc website the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
The remuneration of the Non Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Committee takes into account the business strategy of the Group and how the Remuneration policy reflects and supports that strategy.
For more information on the Remuneration Committee  Committee membership as at 31 July 2015: See pages 77 to 102 Major Audit Remuneration Nominations Announcements 2 Committee Committee Committee Committee Nominations Committee Gareth Davis Chaired by: Gareth Davis Ian Meakins John Martin Number of meetings in the year: 4 Frank Roach Role of the Committee Tessa Bamford The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the structure, size John Daly and composition of the Board and its Committees.
It identifies and nominates suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board Pilar Lpez subject to Board approval and considers succession generally.
Alan Murray Darren Shapland For more information on the Nominations Committee See page 71 Jacky Simmonds 1 The Major Announcements Committee is also a Committee of the Board.
By its nature and as Chairman Member anticipated by its terms of reference, it would usually meet only in exceptional circumstances where information has come to light which is of an unexpected, non-routine and material nature.
1 Richard Shoylekov, Group General Counsel, stepped down from his role as Secretary to the Board There were no meetings in the year.
and the Committees of the Board on 31 July 2015 and Graham Middlemiss succeeded him with effect from 1 August 2015.
2 Darren Shapland succeeded Michael Wareing as Chairman of the Audit Committee on25 November 2014.
Mr Wareing also stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 2 Richard Shoylekov, Group General Counsel, and Mark Fearon, Group Director of Communications 25 November 2014. and Investor Relations, are also members oftheMajor Announcements Committee.
Wolseley plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Summary of principal matters reserved for the Board: 1 2 3 4 5 6 Board and Executive Strategy and management Approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman Oversight of the management of the Wolseley Group.
and the Group Chief Executive and the terms of reference of all Setting the overall strategic direction.
Major approvals Determining and setting Board and senior executive remuneration.
Approval of major changes to the Wolseley Groups corporate Reviewing the performance of the Board and its Committees structure.
Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments.
Succession planning and appointments to the Board and senior management.
Risk and governance Finance Approval of all key policies and material amendments to those policies, including the Code of Conduct, Health and Safety and Approval of tax and treasury policy and certain items outside the Environmental policies.
remit of the Treasury Committee.
Maintaining a sound system of internal controls and risk Approval of the Group and Company financial statements.
Review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
What has the Board done during the year?
The Board has a rolling agenda programme which ensures that items relating to strategy, finance, operations, corporate governance and compliance are covered in its meetings.
An overview of the Boards 2014 15 objectives and how the Board has achieved these objectives is set out below: 2014 15 objectives Achievements Strategy Annual strategy review.
The annual strategy review was conducted at Board meetings in May and July 2015.
Management responsible for each of the Groups regions presented proposals for the strategic development 1 2 3 4 5 6 of their businesses.
The Board reviewed the Group-wide strategy For more information on our strategy see page 10 and the proposals from individual businesses.
For more information on the Groups strategy see the Strategic report starting on page 8.
Regularly review and monitor the Groups During the year, the Board regularly reviewed aspects of the strategy progress against its strategic objectives, with and how it was being implemented in the Groups businesses.
particular focus on driving growth organically In addition to receiving regular reports from management on through the development of new business progress made with strategic initiatives, the Board visited businesses models and selective bolt-on acquisitions.
in the Nordic region and the USA where Directors were able to see first-hand how the Groups business models are evolving.
For more details on the branch visits see page 57 and on Groups business models see pages 18 and 19.
In addition, the Board reviewed acquisition opportunities and several were completed during the year.
For further details of acquisitions see the Group Chief Executives overview page 15 and note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
People Regular review including maintaining the Detailed reviews were completed by the Board in November 2014 appropriate balance and depth of skills both and March 2015.
In addition, the Board received presentations from at Board and Executive Committee level and and had the opportunity to meet Executive Committee members within the management teams in all regions.
and management teams from the business.
Details of the Board visits to the Groups businesses in the Nordic region and the USA can be found on page 57.
Wolseley plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Leadership continued Having identified the areas which the Board focused on during the The Boards priorities for 2015 16 year, set out below are some highlights of its activities which provide The Boards priorities for the year will be: an indication of the nature of the Boards work.
2015 16 priorities Strategy Strategy Regularly review and monitor the Groups progress against its strategy and specific The development of the Companys strategy and evolution of its strategic objectives.
business models was considered through the year.
In addition, the Board attended a dedicated strategy day in May 2015 and Annual strategy review.
completed its review of strategy in July 2015.
Whilst the Groups People Continue to focus on succession plans for the strategy remains unchanged, the Board regularly reviews plans Board and Senior Management.
and initiatives which support the implementation of its strategy.
Regularly monitor talent development in 1 2 3 4 5 6 all regions.
See the Groups strategy set out on page 10 and the Group Chief Executives overview on pages 12 to 15 Why you should vote to re-elect your Board The Board contains a broad range of experience and skills from Operations a variety of industries and advisory roles, which fully complement The Board regularly reviews the operational performance of each other.
In addition, the externally facilitated review of Board the Groups businesses, including financial and non-financial effectiveness concluded that the Board was very effective.
Senior managers from the Groups major Further details of the review are on page 62. businesses periodically make in-depth presentations to the Board, In accordance with Provision B.
7.1. of the UK Corporate Governance which include updates on business performance.
Code, all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2015 Annual See Regional performance on pages 20 to 29 General Meeting AGM.
Full biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 54 and 55 and in the Notice of AGM.
People There was continued focus on the composition of the Board.
In November 2014, the Board conducted a review of the progress made against Wolseleys People Strategy.
In March 2015, as part of its regular talent and succession review process and with the assistance of the Group HR Director, the Board conducted a detailed review of members of the Groups senior leadership team and their successors.
The Board believes the talent and succession planning processes to be of a high standard.
See Our people on page 37 Finance The Board regularly monitored the Groups financial performance.
A monthly performance pack was provided to the Board by the Chief Financial Officer which included an overview of the Group and business unit performance, market trends, competitor activity and shareholder matters.
This was discussed at every Board meeting.
All financial statements to be released to the market were discussed and reviewed.
The 2015 16 budget was reviewed and approved at the July 2015 meeting.
See the Strategic report on pages 8 to 51 Risk The Board maintained its focus on risk management and during the year it reviewed the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board also receives reports from the Audit Committee on its reviews of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
See Principal risks and their management on pages 44 to 51 Wolseley plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
