Audit Committee Including the report from the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 July 2015 Dear Shareholder Darren Shapland Chairman I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2014 15.
In November 2014, I was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee after Michael Wareing stepped down from his position on the Board after over five years of service.
I would like to thank Michael for his support during the transition of his responsibilities as Chairman of the Audit Committee to me.
Each member of the Committee brings substantial skills and experience at a senior executive level and are considered to be Members and attendance eligibility independent in accordance with the Code criteria.
I was, until 2010, at meetings held during the year ended 1 Chief Financial Officer of JSainsbury plc and I currently chair the 31 July 2015 boards of Poundland Group plc and Topps Tiles Plc and I was, Committee members Meeting attendance and eligibility until 24 September 2015, the Chairman of the Audit Committee of 2 Ladbrokes plc.
In addition, Pilar Lpez and Alan Murray also have D Shapland Chairman 5 5 substantial financial experience, Pilar having been Chief Financial T Bamford 5 5 Officer for Telefnica Europe and Alan having been Finance 3 J Daly 4 5 Director of Hanson plc.
This provides the Board with assurance 3 that the Audit Committee meets the Code requirements that at P Lpez 4 5 least one member of the Committee has significant, recent and A Murray 5 5 relevant financial experience, and that at least three members J Simmonds 5 5 areindependent.
The key strengths and experience of each member of theCommittee are summarised on pages 54 and 55.
Members who left during the year: 4 M Wareing 1 1 At the 2015 AGM, I shall be available to respond to any questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the 1 As at 31 July 2015, the Committee was made up of six Non Executive Directors.
The Board considers that the Chairman and other members of the Committee have relevant financial Committees activities.
experience and that each member of the Committee is independent within the definition set out inthe Code.
2 Darren Shapland succeeded Michael Wareing as Chairman of the Audit Committee Other attendees on25 November 2014.
3 Mr Daly and Ms Lpez were each unable to attend one meeting of the Committee due to In addition to the members of the Committee, the Chairman, the scheduling conflicts.
Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group 4 Michael Wareingstepped down as a Non Executive Director on 25 November 2014.
Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel, together with senior representatives of the Companys external auditors, attended and received papers for each meeting.
Other senior executives were also invited to certain meetings topresent and discuss specific items.
In particular, the Finance Directors of the Groups major regions periodically attend Committee meetings to provide the Committee with detailed updates relating to their region.
The Committee periodically meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and theexternal auditors without the presence of Executive Directors andalso separately with the Chief Financial Officer.
Wolseley plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information What the Committee has done during theyear Allocation of time spent during the year An overview of the Committees 2014 15 objectives and how the Set out in the table and the narrative below is a summary of matters Committee has achieved these objectives is set out below: considered by the Committee during 2014 15.
Key issues covered by the Committee are reported to the subsequent meeting of the Board 2014 15 objectives Achievements and the Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
Continue to review and The Audit Committee undertakes Sep Nov Mar May Jul monitor the approach to a review of key risks and their risk management and the management in March and September Financial reporting and significant level of risk driven through each year.
Feedback is provided to financialjudgements changes to the business management as part of this review Full Year results and associated model, industry changes process.
In May each year, the Audit announcements and technological Committee reviews the effectiveness developments.
of the overall risk management and Half Year results and associated internal control framework.
announcements Continue to monitor and The Groups Chief Information Officer External audit review cyber security and reported to the Audit Committee on Auditors Full Year report to the Committee planned major changes to the major changes to the Groups IT Independence review of external auditor IT systems.
systems that had been implemented or were planned, the status of IT controls Effectiveness review of external auditor and the status and development of the Review of engagement letter Groups cyber security systems and Auditors Half Year report to the Committee procedures.
Although there have been no significant cyber security issues, Year-end external audit plan management continue to review and Consideration of non-audit engagements implement improvements in cyber Review of audit and non-audit fees security processes and procedures.
External audit tender Continue to focus The Committee received updates on finance systems from the Finance Directors of the Internal audit transformation.
Groups major regions on progress Internal Audit report to the Committee made to upgrade the Groups finance Annual plan for internal audit systems.
The projects include the implementation of new software Effectiveness review of internal audit solutions, reviewing the efficiency Risk management of internal finance processes and operating models and developing Fraud and whistleblowing report internal reporting capabilities.
Risk management report to the Committee Theprojects aimed at transforming Review of the risk sections of the Annual the Groups finance systems are Report continuing and good progress hasbeen made in all major regions Review of risk management framework with many projects either in progress Other or completed.
Updates on accounting and corporate Prepare for and implement Regulatory changes are considered governance developments any relevant regulatory throughout the year.
The Committee Review of finance team succession plans changes to Audit considered developments in the Committee governance.
Terms of reference review Prepare in 2014 15 for The external audit tender process Review of effectiveness of the Committee external audit tender in hasbeen completed.
For further 2015 16. details see pages 68 and 69.
Effectiveness This year, the review of the effectiveness of the Committee was conducted by an external consultant as part of the wider review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The review concluded that the Committee was effective and well run.
The evaluation process, together with the conclusions and recommendations for improvement, are summarised on page 62.
Wolseley plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee continued basis of any provision and the key assumptions applied when Financial reporting and significant quantifying it, including the likelihood of successful claims to be financialjudgements made against the Group.
Thisincluded a number of claims which The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies had been made where management concluded that the claims have been adopted and whether management has made were without merit or were not estimable or sufficiently probable appropriate estimates and judgements and seeks support to recognise a provision in accordance with accounting standards.
from the external auditors to assess them.
As part of the review The Committee agreed with the position taken by management process, the Committee receives papers and holds discussions inrespect of those matters.
with management and makes its assessment in accordance with The Committee considered the value of provisionsagainst accounting guidelines.
The main issues reviewed for the year unresolved tax positions as at 31 July 2015.
Management ended 31 July 2015 and how these issues were addressed are presented to the Committee the basis for provisioning based summarised below: uponthe latest correspondence with the relevant tax authorities The Committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and and previous experience.
The Committee also received detailed other intangible assets for impairments, including a detailed reporting from the external auditors before concluding the review of the analysis and assumptions underlying the value in provisions are fairly stated in the consolidated financial statements.
use calculations for the businesses identified as cash generating At the request of the Board, we have undertaken a review to assess units.
The Committee agreed with managements assessment whether the 2014 15 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced that impairment charges had arisen primarily relating to the and understandable and whether it provides the necessary Nordic region due to continued challenging market conditions information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and reduced expectations of profitability.
The key assumptions and performance, business model and strategy.
When forming underlying the calculations are primarily the achievability of its opinion, the Committee reviewed the 2014 15 Annual Report the long-term business plan, country specific discount rates, to assess whether the content demonstrated the developments anticipated revenue growth in the short-term, and long-term and challenges from the year, reflecting on information it had growth assumptions.
received and discussions that had taken place throughout the The Committee reviewed the recognition of supplier rebates year.
Following its review, the Committee advised the Board which are significant to the Group and is an area of inherent risk that it was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2014 15 Annual due to the number of arrangements and complexity of certain Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and arrangements.
In addition, the majority of the supplier rebate provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the arrangements are not coterminous with the Groups accounting Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
year-end as they generally cover a calendar year.
This review The Directors Responsibilities Statement can be found on page 74. covered the processes and controls in place during the year and the level of adherence to the Groups accounting policies and External audit procedures.
Judgements were made to forecast the expected level of volumes purchased to determine the appropriate rate at External audit processes which rebate is earned as this varies dependent upon the volume During the year,  LLP PwC undertook or value purchased.
Additional assurance has been provided external audit and certain non-audit work.
The Group Audit Partner, through the work of the Internal Audit department in the year Stuart Watson, together with other PwC audit team members who performed a number of specific reviews in this area with from time to time, attended each Audit Committee meeting as no material findings identified.
As a result of the review process, representatives of the external auditors.
They also attended the the Committee concluded that the level of rebate income and 2014 AGM.
They provided the Committee with information and rebate receivable as at 31 July 2015 was properly reflected in the advice, aswellasrelevant reports on the financial statements and consolidated financial statements.
The Committee considered the level of provisions for obsolete and In November 2014, the Committee reviewed and approved the slow moving inventory as at 31 July 2015.
This is predominantly terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the 2014 15 audit as set a system-generated calculation, comparing inventory on hand out in the external auditors engagement letter.
During the year, PwC against expected future sales using historic experience as the provided audit related services such as regulatory and statutory basis for provisioning, along with the results of physical stockreporting.
PwC are expected to report to the Committee any material counts performed by management.
The Committee ensured the departures from Group accounting policies and procedures that they policy was consistently applied across the Group in the current identify during the course of their audit work.
None were found or and previous financial periods and sought the views of the auditors reported in the financial year.
before concluding that provisions for obsolete and slow moving inventory are fairly stated in the consolidated financial statements.
PwCs 2014 15 External Audit Plan was approved in May 2015 andhas been successfully completed at the date of this report.
The Committee considered the provisions held and settlements made in relation to litigation disputes and potential product liability Auditor appointment and tendering and environmental claims.
The Committee addressed this issue by assessing reports from management and considering the In 2010, the Company, which was newly incorporated, became extent to which professional advice was taken on these matters.
the holding company of the Group and PwC has been its auditors In each case, management presented to the Committee the since then.
Prior to that, PwC and its predecessor firms had been Wolseley plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information the auditors of the previous holding company of the Group now a Auditor independence and objectivity subsidiary of the Company since before the Company first listed on The Company has policies and procedures in place to ensure the London Stock Exchange in 1961. that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is Last year we said that, having regard to the provisions of the UK not impaired.
These include restrictions on the types of services Corporate Governance Code and the relevant regulations relating which the external auditor can provide, in line with the APB Ethical to the requirement to put the external audit out to tender every 10 Standards on Auditing.
Details of the services that the external years, it was the intention to tender the external audit contract during auditors cannot be engaged to perform are provided on the 2015 16.
As announced on 22 June 2015, we have concluded the Wolseley plc website www.
tender process for the external audit contract and, following the During the year, when considering the award of non-audit work, completion of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended an assessment is made of which service provider would be best 31 July 2015, Deloitte LLP will be appointed as the Companys placed to undertake it.
Appointments are made on a case-byexternal auditors, subject to approval by shareholders at the 2015 case basis.
The prior consent of the Chairman of the Committee Annual General Meeting.
is required before the Companys statutory auditor is appointed to The Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations undertake non-audit work where the proposed fee is in excess of a to the Board concerning the appointment, reappointment and removal level set by the Committee.
At each meeting the Committee reviews of the external auditors.
The Committee created a Sub-Committee, led all engagements of the Companys statutory auditor to undertake by myself and including Pilar Lpez and Alan Murray, to administer the non-audit work commenced in the preceding period, including those tender process.
The Sub-Committee submitted a detailed timetable for approved by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee also the tender process to the Committee and undertook a review to identify periodically reviews the level of fees incurred with the Companys suitable audit firms which could be invited to tender.
Following review statutory auditor for non-audit work.
During the year, PwC was by the Committee, a formal invitation to tender document was issued appointed to undertake non-audit work, the details of which are set to those firms identified as having the appropriate experience, expertise out below.
The decision to appoint them was typically based on the and resource to perform the audit to a high standard.
merit of using PwCs existing knowledge of both the Company and the Group and its importance in relation to the advice sought on In addition, we sought the views of major shareholders on the each relevant transaction.
tender process and the feedback we received was considered and incorporated in the process where appropriate.
PwC also provides specific assurance to the Committee on the arrangements and safeguards it has in place to maintain its Although the Committee was satisfied that PwC continued to independence and objectivity, including an internal process to preprovide an effective audit service throughout their tenure, it was approve provision of non-audit services and the use of separate decided that, due to the longevity of PwCs appointment, they teams where non-audit services are being provided to the Group.
would not be invited to tender and I would like to thank PwC for their The Committee continues to be satisfied with the independence and dedication and significant contribution as Wolseleys auditors.
Each firm invited to tender was given access to a data room and During the tender process, Deloitte LLP provided assurances attended detailed meetings with management to allow objective as to their independence.
The Committee are satisfied with the assessments to take place.
The Board appointed a Committee of independence and objectivity of Deloitte LLP and will continue to the Board, chaired by me, to conduct final interviews with the shortmonitor both during the year.
listed firms and select the firm to be recommended to shareholders for appointment as the Companys new external auditors.
Audit and non-audit fees Accordingly, a resolution proposing the appointment of Deloitte LLP will be put to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Fees for non-audit work carried out by PwC as a percentage of audit fees for the year ended 31 July 2015 were 50 per cent 2014: 41.2 There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys per cent.
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the choice of external auditor.
The Committee will continue to review the year ended 31 July 2015 can be found in note 3 to the consolidated auditor appointment and the need to tender the audit, ensuring the financial statements on page 115.
Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and any related regulations.
The non-audit services related mainly to assistance on tax compliance matters.
PwC also provided consultancy advice on the Auditor effectiveness Groups proposed new financial reporting system which is due to be implemented in 2015 16.
These services were provided within The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of the constraints of the Audit Practices Board Ethical Standards on the external auditors.
A survey of all the Groups finance teams is Auditing andwere assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the conducted.
Each team is asked to rate PwCs performance against best placed adviser was retained.
a range of measures, including relating to the adequacy of planning, the sufficiency of resource, the thoroughness of review and testing, the adequacy and application of knowledge of the Group, the usefulness of feedback and the quality of reporting.
The Committee considered the 2014 year-end survey findings as part of its review.
The Committee was satisfied that PwC provided an effective audit service.
Wolseley plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee continued The Chairman of the Committee reports any matters arising from Internal audit the Committees review to the Board following each meeting.
The scope of activity of internal audit is monitored and reviewed This update covers the way in which the risk management and at each Committee meeting.
An annual plan was agreed by the internal control processes are applied and on any breakdowns in, Committee inMay 2015 which covers the activities to July 2016. or exceptions to, these processes.
There were no significant failings During the year, the Head of Internal Audit attended each Committee or weaknesses identified.
These processes have been in place meeting where his reports were reviewed and discussed in detail.
throughout the year ended 31 July 2015 and have continued to the The Committee considered the matters raised and the adequacy of date of this report.
managements response to them, including the time taken to resolve Full details of how the business implements its risk management and any such matters.
controls on a Group-wide basis are set out in the section on Principal In May 2015, the Committee conducted the annual review of risks and their management on pages 44 to 51. the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, including its terms of reference, audit plans, general performance and Whistleblowing and fraud relationship with the external auditors.
This review was undertaken The Groups whistleblowing policy, which supports the Group-wide using guidance issued by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
Code of Conduct, is monitored by the Committee.
A copy of the The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the Groups Code of Conduct is available on the Wolseley plc website Groups Internal Audit function.
The Committee received reports at each Committee meeting providing details of matters reported through Risk the Groups international confidential telephone reporting lines and secure website reporting facility, which are operated on its behalf by Risk management an independent third party.
All matters reported are investigated by Risk management reports, prepared by the Group Head of Risk the relevant operating company and, where appropriate, reported to and Compliance, were submitted to the Committee in September the Committee, together with details of any corrective action taken.
These reports summarise submissions from The Committee also received reports at each Committee meeting all areas of the business which the Executive Committee and senior providing details of fraud losses in each quarter.
They identify the significant risks to the Group, the controls in place and highlight the tolerance levels that the Audit Committee priorities for 2015 16 Executive Committee is prepared to accept.
In July 2015, the Audit 2015 16 priorities Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys overall risk Ensure that there is an efficient and effective transition of the external management framework, including the generic procedures for risk audit from PwC to Deloitte LLP.
identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting.
Continue to review and monitor the approach to risk management Internal controls and the level of risk driven through changes to the business model, industry changes and technological developments.
During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting Continue to monitor and review cyber security and planned major policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk changes to IT systems.
management procedures and compliance controls, as well as the Continue to focus on finance systems transformation.
Companys statements on internal controls, before they were agreed by the Board for this Annual Report.
As at the date of this report, the Committee has already begun to implement a number of these action points.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate business risk.
They provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Such systems are necessary to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets and depend on regular evaluation of the extent of the risks to which the Company is exposed.
Darren Shapland on behalf of the Audit Committee The Committee is assured that the Companys systems comply with the requirements of the Code.
The Committee can confirm that the Companys systems and their effectiveness have been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved, and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Committee is of the view that the Company has a well-designed system of internal control.
Wolseley plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
