84 Governance Audit Committee report Letter from the Audit Committee chairman We continue to believe our long-term audit tender policy Dear Shareholder should be based on a holistic view of the final outcome of all This was my first full year as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In particular, restrictions prohibitions on Our last financial year has, once again, seen more regulatory the provision of non-audit services by the independent auditor changes that have continued to increase the responsibilities of will inevitably have an impact on our audit tendering decisions the Committee.
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee and this is discussed in more detail later in this report.
Report for the year ended 31 March 2015, which sets out our response to those responsibilities.
During the year our current audit partner advised us of his intended retirement in June 2015, a year ahead of his planned Responsibilities rotation.
We therefore considered the transition arrangements Each year the Committee works to a planned programme proposed by the FRC, which suggest that a tender for of activities focused on key events in the annual financial independent audit services could be carried out at the time of reporting cycle and other matters that are considered in an audit partner rotation.
Given the continuing need for clarity accordance with its terms of reference.
We provide oversight regarding the criteria for determining the independence of the and guidance to contribute to the ongoing good governance auditor under the EU directive and regulation, the Committee of the business, particularly by providing assurance that considered carefully whether or not it was appropriate to put shareholders interests are being properly protected by the independent audit out to tender during the year.
It initially appropriate financial management, reporting and internal concluded that it was prudent to wait to tender the controls.
independent audit service so as to ensure the appointed firm During the year, we continued to focus our activities on the would meet all relevant independence criteria.
However, as these criteria are not expected to be finalised until later in the integrity and quality of the Groups financial reporting, the performance of internal and independent audit processes financial year ending 31 March 2016, we intend to conduct a tender during the financial year ending 31 March 2016. and the suitability of the Groups internal governance, risk management system and controls.
Consequently, the Committee considered the effectiveness Internal auditor and performance of the incumbent independent auditor and agreed to accept a new audit partner with a view to The Committee aims to ensure its activities support the future development of the Group.
In particular, my colleagues and tendering the appointment during the financial year ending 31 March 2016.
The Committee has therefore recommended I ensure that Ernst & Young EY, the Groups internal auditor, develops an internal audit plan that focuses on areas of the reappointment of  LLP PwC as independent auditor.
particular potential risk, as well as those areas of most importance to the delivery of the Groups strategy and future Yours faithfully performance.
Allister Langlands Independent auditor Last year we reported to you in some depth on the proposed Chairman of the Audit Committee 10 June 2015 reforms to the audit sector by the European Union EU and the UKs Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
We also highlighted the need for clarity regarding how these proposals would interact with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 for audits to be put out to tender every 10 years.
The CMA has since issued its final order dealing with audit firm tendering requirements for FTSE 350 companies and the EU has approved a directive and regulation setting out new EU wide audit legislation.
Work is now underway on the UK implementation of the EU legislation, and both the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS and the FRC are consulting on implementation decisions.
Concurrently, the FRC is undertaking a wider review of its Ethical Standards for Auditors.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 85 Audit Committee report continued For more information about the Audit Committee visit: www.
com investors accountability The Audit Committee The independent non-executive directors who served on the Committee during the year are shown in table 1.
Table 1: Members of the Committee during the year Member From To Fiona Clutterbuck 1 April 2007 To date Allister Langlands chairman from 1 February 2014 9 October 2013 To date Raj Rajagopal 8 September 2011 To date Information regarding the scope of the Committees activities, including its terms of reference, can be found on the Groups website: www.
Committee activities The key matters discussed by the Audit Committee during the financial year included: Theme Agenda items Financial reporting Judgemental issues regarding the results for the financial year ended 31 March 2014 including a review of accounting policies and the going concern statement Consideration of whether the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 was fair, balanced and understandable Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 March 2014 Draft results and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2014 Plans for the preparation of the results for the six months ended 30 September 2014 Judgemental issues regarding the results for the six months ended 30 September 2014 including a review of the going concern statement Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the six months ended 30 September 2014 Draft results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2014 Plans for the preparation of the full year results for the year ended 31 March 2015 Internal controls Review of key internal controls and risk management Group self-certification process and statement Review of the whistleblower and fraud response procedures Reports on whistleblower confidential hotline activity Review and approval of amendments to the Groups tax standards Consideration of the senior accounting officer statements required to be filed Internal audit Consideration and approval of the internal audit plan for the year ending 31 March 2016 Regular reviews of internal audit findings Review of the standard set for managing potential conflicts between the Group and the internal auditor Approval, in line with the Committees agreed standard, of non-internal audit work undertaken by the internal auditor Review of the internal auditor, its fees and its effectiveness Review of the Groups Internal Audit Charter Independent auditor Consideration of the plans for the independent review for the six months to 30 September 2014 and the independent audit for the year ended 31 March 2015 Review of the standard set for managing potential conflicts between the Group and the independent auditor, including non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Review of audit and non-audit fees paid to the independent auditor and its independence and effectiveness Recommendation regarding the reappointment of the independent auditor Approval, in line with the Committees agreed standard, of non-internal audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Reform of the audit market and the proposals from the EU, the CMA and the FRC Consideration of the Companys approach to tendering the independent audit Governance Consideration of changes to corporate reporting requirements Consideration of the effect of the implementation of amended accounting standards WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 86 Governance Audit Committee report continued The Committee discussed a number of matters following the conclusion of the financial year ended 31 March 2015 in respect of that year.
These included: judgemental issues regarding the Groups results for the year ended 31 March 2015, including a review of accounting policies and going concern advising the Board, at its request, on whether the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 is fair, balanced and understandable independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 March 2015 draft results and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Annual financial reporting Significant issues We have reviewed the key judgements applied to a number of significant issues in the preparation of the Financial Statements.
Our review included consideration of the following: Significant issue How the Committee addressed this Contract accounting The Group enters into a number of large and complex long-term contracts which can span revenue recognition a number of reporting periods.
Significant judgements are required to forecast how each contract will perform over its lifetime.
These judgements may include, for example, the level of revenue and profit recognition based on managements estimates of the extent to which the Group has fulfilled its obligations under the contract and the level of costs that will be incurred to complete them.
There can be particular uncertainties in determining the amounts to be recovered as a result of contractual variations due to, for example, changing client specifications or unforeseen circumstances.
We received regular reports from management on a number of higher risk contracts and challenged estimates of completion costs, with consequential impacts on revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition within different reporting periods.
We concluded that the approach to revenue recognition is appropriate in the context of the Groups business model and contract structures.
Goodwill impairment The Group has significant goodwill relating to The Atkins North America Holdings Corporation formerly known as The PBSJ Corporation and its subsidiaries the ANA business following the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation in 2010.
A goodwill impairment calculation was undertaken as at 30 September 2014 using similar assumptions in relation to future cash flows as were used at 31 March 2014.
This led us to determine that there were no triggering events requiring an impairment of this goodwill.
At 31 March 2015 we examined the detailed full impairment review undertaken by management, which included testing of assumptions and sensitivity analysis.
We also received and considered the independent auditors comments on the key assumptions used and the sensitivity analysis performed.
The issue of impairment involves making significant judgements about the future results of the ANA business and the market in which it operates.
We agreed with managements recommendation that no impairment charge should be made but that, given its quantum, there remains a risk of impairment of goodwill in the ANA business in the future and appropriate disclosures have therefore been included in the Annual Report note 14 to the Financial Statements, page 163.
The Group also had goodwill relating to its European aerospace business following the acquisition of Nedtech Engineering B. V. in 2007.
A goodwill impairment calculation was undertaken as at 30 September 2014 in relation to this acquisition based on an initial revised forecast developed in response to a change in market conditions.
This led us to determine that a partial impairment of 2.8m of the acquired goodwill of 5.6m was required.
At 31 March 2015 we examined the detailed full impairment review undertaken by management.
We agreed with managements recommendation that no additional impairment should be made at 31 March 2015 and appropriate disclosures have therefore been included in the Annual Report note 14 to the Financial Statements, page 162.
Pension liabilities The Group has significant post-retirement liabilities via the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme RPS.
The valuation of plan liabilities requires significant levels of judgement and technical expertise to ensure the assumptions applied are appropriate, as relatively small changes can have a material impact on the size of the liabilities.
The assumptions applied by the Group to the Atkins Pension Plan and the RPS were reviewed as at 31 March 2015 in light of prevailing conditions.
We agreed with the assumptions applied by management and with the valuation of the Groups pension liabilities.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 87 Audit Committee report continued Significant issue How the Committee addressed this Taxation The completeness and valuation of provisions to cover the range of potential final determinations by the tax authorities of the Groups tax positions are the subject of judgement.
In particular, judgement is required in relation to deferred tax assets, current tax deductions and ongoing tax audits.
The provisions held by the Group were reviewed by management as at 31 March 2015.
We agreed with managements assessment of the Groups tax provisions.
Professional indemnity The Group manages a significant proportion of its professional indemnity claims through its provisions insurance captive in Guernsey.
The most significant claims relate to perceived deficiencies in work performed by the Group.
The size of the provision held against any particular claim is determined by management, based on its knowledge of the specifics of the claim, and therefore is inherently judgemental and may change over time as new information comes to light.
We agreed with managements recommendations regarding the level of claims revenues carried by the Group.
We also considered a number of other judgements made by management, including judgements concerning accounting for acquisitions and disposals, application of accounting standards and the useful economic life of intangible assets.
Fair, balanced and understandable The content and disclosures made in the Annual Report are subject to a verification exercise by management to ensure that no statement is misleading in the form and context in which it is included, no material facts are omitted which may make any statement of fact or opinion misleading, and implications which might be reasonably drawn from the statement are true.
The Audit Committee examined the Annual Report and was asked by the Board to advise it on whether it was fair, balanced and understandable.
To enable us to draw our conclusions in this respect, we: examined the preparation and review process for the Annual Report and considered the level of challenge provided through that process assessed whether, from our own review of the Annual Report, we concurred with the results of that process considered the accounting policies applied by the Group assessed the information contained in the Annual Report against the Groups strategy and business model to ensure the information provided was sufficient to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
Following our review, we advised the Board that the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2015 is fair, balanced and understandable and gives shareholders the information necessary for them to understand and assess the Groups performance, strategy and business model.
Independent auditor The independent auditor is currently PwC, which has acted in this capacity since the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996.
During the year, we conducted a review of the performance of and relationship with the independent auditor, as well as its qualification, expertise and resources and the effectiveness and quality of the audit.
As part of our review, we issued a questionnaire which was circulated to the members of the Committee and senior management after the publication of the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Recipients were asked to answer questions which focused on the robustness of the audit, audit planning, willingness to challenge management, the quality of delivery of audit services and the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the independent auditor.
Responses received were collated ahead of, and fed into, our consideration of the audit strategy and approach for the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
There were no significant findings arising from the review and we concluded that, overall, both PwC and its audit process continued to be effective.
Areas where the Committee believed that the independent audit process might be improved, which focused on the added value PwCs insight could bring and its coordination of its international teams, were discussed and agreed with PwC and are being addressed.
The independence of the independent auditor is evidenced in part through its challenge to management.
The rotation of the audit partner on a regular basis also contributes to the independence and objectivity of the audit process, the last such rotation having taken place in 2012.
During the year, the Groups audit partner advised us of his intended retirement from PwC in June 2015, a year before his five year tenure would have ended, and hence a new audit partner at PwC was identified.
The transition to the new audit partner has already begun and is going smoothly.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 88 Governance Audit Committee report continued Audit tender policy As reported last year and noted above, in September 2012 the FRC amended the Code to include, among other changes, a requirement for FTSE 350 companies to put the independent audit contract out to tender at least once every 10 years.
The FRC recognised that the audit market could be disrupted if a large number of companies chose to go out to tender in the first year in which the revised Code applied and hence proposed transitional arrangements that brought tenders in line with the cycle for rotating the audit partner.
Under these transitional arrangements, the retirement of our audit partner, a year ahead of his planned rotation, could have been considered to trigger a tender of the Groups independent audit contract.
Following the approval by the EU of the directive and regulation setting out new EU wide audit legislation and the issue of the final order from the CMA dealing with audit firm tendering requirements for FTSE 350 companies, work is now underway on the implementation of these changes.
As a result, the ongoing uncertainty surrounding the restrictions prohibitions on the provision of non-audit services by the independent auditor poses a particular challenge for us.
Specifically it is anticipated that: as our appointed internal auditor, EY will be prevented from participating in any tender for the independent audit contract unless the internal audit contract is also put out to tender the current provision of tax compliance services by PwC as noted in our discussion of auditor independence below will prevent it from participating in any tender for the independent audit contract unless the provision of tax compliance services is also put out to tender the multidisciplinary nature of many of the projects we undertake, often working in consortia, partnerships or similar arrangements with other professional service firms, may prevent other audit firms from participating in any tender for the independent audit contract, unless they are able to exit from such arrangements in the required time limits to ensure their independence.
We recognise that, in considering participants in any tender for the independent audit contract, we will therefore need to have particular regard to the following points: the impact of the appointment of any firm on our existing and future multidisciplinary projects to ensure that our business is not inadvertently damaged, as we would be unable to work in consortia, partnerships or similar arrangements with the appointed firm the need to tender the contracts for the provision of any other services, balancing this against the impact of a large number of service provider changes on the Group the ability of any appointed firm to provide services across our complex, international business the views of our shareholders.
We therefore initially concluded that, until the outcome of the BIS and FRC consultations was known, it would not be possible to run a tender process for our independent audit contract.
However, as this outcome is not expected to be finalised until later in the financial year ending 31 March 2016 at the earliest, we intend to conduct a tender during the early part of the calendar year 2016.
Under this timetable we expect that we can comply with the independence criteria in advance of any appointment taking effect, which is likely to be for the financial year ending 31 March 2018.
We intend to consult with our major shareholders in due course regarding the tender process.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of independent auditor.
Auditor independence We understand that certain work of a non-audit nature may be best undertaken by the independent auditor as a result of its unique position and knowledge of key areas of the Company.
Approval is required prior to the independent auditor commencing non-audit work in accordance with a Group standard, summarised in table 2.
This standard is drafted to preserve the independence and objectivity of the independent auditor and is reviewed and approved annually by the Committee.
We also regularly consider the impact on independence, if any, of non-audit work performed by the independent auditor.
The standard sets out the safeguards to be considered when engaging the independent auditor for non-audit services.
The appointment of former employees of the independent auditor to positions in the Group is also regulated by the Committee.
The standard will be reviewed once the FRC has published the outcome of its review of its Ethical Standards for Auditors.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 89 Audit Committee report continued Table 2: Standard regarding non-audit services provided by the independent auditor Work best performed by the independent auditor as a result Audit-related of its unique position and knowledge Prohibited services of the Company Other work work Examples Regulatory Taxation advice including compliance Provision of non-material systems Book-keeping of types work Assisting and working with the or project services under the control services of work Reporting internal audit function of a Group project manager Other services accountants Forensic work Secondment of staff other than to deemed to be to a share or Internal audit services under the prepare accounting records or financial incompatible bond issue instruction of the internal audit statements with auditor or other function Remuneration surveys independence shareholder Valuation services not material Systems recommendation and by professional circulars to the financial statements and implementation or governmental Auditing where there is not a high degree regulations of share of subjectivity schemes Independent review of the half year report Approval Executive management via the Group finance director Following a supplier review, if management n a required and company secretary has delegated authority to use does identify the independent auditor as the independent auditor without prior consultation being the best supplier in a specific field with the Committee although the nature of, and fees and also believes that such an assignment associated with, that work will be regularly reported does not run the risk of prejudicing its to the Committee.
independence, then an evaluated request will be made to the Committee to confirm The independent auditors audit partner also has to the appointment.
approve any such engagement before it can proceed.
Appointments for non-material fee levels may be approved by the Group finance director or company secretary in his absence.
The independent auditors audit partner also has to approve any such engagement before it can proceed.
Note 4 to the Financial Statements page 150 sets out the fees paid to the independent auditor for audit 1.40m and non-audit work 2.20m.
Approximately 52% 1.14m of the non-audit fees incurred related to services provided in connection with an unsuccessful acquisition pursuit included in Other in note 4 and approximately 44% 0.96m to taxation compliance services identified separately in note 4.
In relation to the services provided in connection with our unsuccessful acquisition pursuit, certain of the services were required to be performed by an independent accountant and it was considered efficient to appoint a single advisor to provide these and the associated accountancy services.
PwC was appointed given it was our incumbent independent auditor.
It was considered appropriate to engage PwCs services in regards to the taxation compliance services in light of its detailed understanding of the Group and specialist expertise in these areas.
The level of non-audit fees paid to PwC represented a value of approximately 157% of the audit and audit-related fees for the Group.
Excluding those fees relating to our unsuccessful acquisition pursuit, the non-audit fees paid to PwC represented a value of approximately 76% 1.06m of the audit and audit-related fees for the Group, of which approximately 90% related to the provision of taxation compliance services.
We concluded that the non-audit services provided by PwC did not have any impact on its independence.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allister Langlands Chairman of the Audit Committee 10 June 2015 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
