78 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors The Board is chaired by Non-Executive Chairman, Sir Michael Rake.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board currently includes three Executive Directors, three Independent Non-Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Committees of the Board is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director, other than the Nomination Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman.
Sir Michael Rake Philip Jansen Chairman Chief Executive Officer Worldpay appreciates the importance of having a Board of Directors containing the right balance of skills, experience and diversity.
The skills and experience of the Appointment Appointment current Directors and the value they bring Appointed as Chairman of the Board with Appointed to Worldpay Group with effect to Worldpay Group is described here.
effect from September 2015. from April 2013.
Key strengths Key strengths Sir Michael brings to the Board extensive Philip has significant executive financial and commercial expertise, as well management expertise, as well as key as significant experience in capital strengths in international business markets, technology and digital products.
transformation, change management and strategy development.
Experience Experience Sir Michael is currently Chairman of BT Philip was Chief Executive Officer of Group plc, Majid Al Futtaim Holdings LLC Brakes Group from July 2010 and later and International Chamber of Commerce Chairman between April 2013 and October UK and a Director of McGraw Hill Finance 2015.
He remains a Senior Advisor to Inc. Sir Michael was President of the Brakes Group and to Bain Capital.
Confederation of British Industry from Between 2009 and 2013, Philip was a 2013 to 2015: a member of the Prime Non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins Ministers Business Advisory Group from plc.
He was previously Group Chief 2010 to 2015: Non-Executive Director of Operating Officer and Chief Executive Barclays plc between 2008 and 2015 being Officer, Europe, South Africa and India for Deputy Chairman from 2012 : Chairman of Sodexo.
Prior to that, he was Chief the private equity oversight group the Operating Officer of MyTravel plc and Guidelines Monitoring Committee from Managing Director of Telewest 2008 to 2013: Chairman of easyJet plc from Communications plc, after starting his 2010 to 2013: and the first Chairman of the career at Procter & Gamble.
UK Commission for Employment and Skills from 2007 to 2010.
He was also a Director of the Financial Reporting Council from 2008 to 2011 and Chairman of Business in the Community from 2004 to 2007.
Sir Michael also had a long and extensive career with KPMG, culminating in his appointment as International Chairman between 2002 and 2007.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member of the Audit Committee.
79 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Rick Medlock Ron Kalifa Martin Scicluna Chief Financial Officer Vice Chairman and Senior Independent Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to Worldpay Group with effect Appointed to Worldpay Group with effect Appointed as Senior Independent Director from April 2015. from August 2010. with effect from September 2015.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Rick has extensive expertise and 30 years Ron has significant executive leadership Martin has deep knowledge of auditing experience in the financial management of experience within the payments industry, and associated regulatory issues.
and has developed key strengths in mergers and acquisitions and strategy development.
Experience Experience Experience Rick is a qualified chartered accountant.
Ron was appointed as Vice Chairman and Martin was appointed as Senior Prior to joining Worldpay, Rick was Chief Executive Director of Worldpay Group in Independent Director in 2015, having Financial Officer of Misys.
From 2004 to 2013, and was Chief Executive Officer of joined the Board as a Non-Executive December 2013, Rick was Chief Financial the business for over ten years.
He is currently Chairman Officer of Inmarsat plc and between 1996 Rons leadership, Worldpay acquired and of RSA Insurance Group plc and Great and 2004 he served as Chief Financial successfully integrated a series of Portland Estates plc.
He served as a Officer and Company Secretary of NDS separate businesses from across Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Group plc.
The early part of his career was ecommerce, risk management and the Audit Committee of Lloyds Banking spent in a variety of roles as Chief acquiring to form one of the worlds Group from 2008 to 2013 and was a Financial Officer of a number of private leading providers of merchant services.
member of the Financial Services Trade equity backed technology companies in Prior to this Ron held various executive and Investment Board from 2013 to 2015. the UK and the US.
roles within RBS and NatWest.
Ron is also Prior to this, he was Chairman of Deloitte a member of the Visa Europe board, QIWI LLP in the UK for 12 years to May 2007, plc and UK Cards Association Ltd. having been a member of the Deloitte Board from 1990 to 2007.
He also has international experience as a member of the Board of Directors of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu for nine years.
Additionally, he was Audit Partner at Deloitte for 26 years and has experience in serving boards and audit committees of FTSE 100 companies as Lead Partner.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
80 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors continued John Allan, CBE Deanna Oppenheimer James Brocklebank Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director not independent Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to Worldpay Group with effect Appointed to Worldpay Group with effect Appointed to Worldpay Group with effect from July 2011. from January 2016. from November 2010.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths John brings a wealth of executive Deanna has extensive knowledge and James has extensive financial services management expertise in commercial and experience in retail banking and financial experience, including investment banking financial services sectors.
services as well as significant leadership and private equity.
Experience Experience Experience John is currently Chairman of Tesco plc, Deanna is founder of CameoWorks LLC, a James joined Advent International in 1997 Barratt Developments plc and London retail and financial services advisory firm.
and has 18 years of private equity First.
John was Chairman of Dixons Retail Previously, she served in a number of roles experience.
James co-heads Advent in from 2009 to 2014 and later Co-Deputy at Barclays plc, first as Chief Executive of Europe and is responsible for the Chairman and Senior Independent UK Retail and Business Banking and then European business and financial services Director of the enlarged Dixons Carphone as Vice Chair of Global Retail Banking.
He is also a member of the until 2015.
He was also previously Prior to Barclays, Deanna worked from European Investment Advisory Chairman of Care UK Health & Social Care 1985 to 2005 at Washington Mutual, Inc Committees, the North American and has been a Non-Executive Director of where she was Marketing Director and, Investment Committee and is a member National Grid plc, the Royal Mail Group plc, later, President of Consumer Banking, of Advents global Executive Committee.
the UK Home Office Supervisory Board, helping transform the lender from a He currently serves on the boards of Nets 3i Group plc, PHS Group plc, Wolseley plc, regional to a national player.
Deanna Denmark, ICBPI Italy and Advent Hamleys plc and Connell plc.
He was also currently holds Non-Executive Director International plc.
Prior to Advent, James a member of the supervisory boards of roles on the Boards of Tesco plc, Tesco worked on international mergers and both Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Bank, NCR Corporation, AXA Group, the acquisitions in the London office of Postbank and Senior Advisor to Deutsche Joshua Green Corporation, and Brooks investment bank Baring Brothers and its Bank.
John has served as an Executive Sports.
Additionally, she is a senior advisor affiliate Dillon, Read & Co. in New York.
Director at BET plc and was Chief Financial to Bain & Company.
Officer and a Board Member of Deutsche Post DHL following its acquisition of Exel Chair of the Risk Committee and member plc in December 2005, where he had been of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit, Nomination and Risk Committees.
81 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Robin Marshall Derek Woodward Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary not independent Appointment Appointment Appointed to Worldpay Group with effect Appointed to Worldpay Group with effect from July 2010. from January 2016.
Key strengths Key strengths Robin has extensive business and Derek has a wealth of experience as management experience, as well as Company Secretary of large publicly listed experience in strategic decision making.
international companies across a range of industries.
Experience Experience Robin joined Bain Capital in 2009, where Derek was appointed Group Company he co-leads the European Business and Secretary in January 2016.
Prior to this, he Financial Services Sector team.
Prior to spent seven years as Group Company joining Bain Capital, he was a Partner with Secretary of Thomas Cook Group plc, 3i, where he was Managing Director of 3is seven years as Head of Secretariat at UK business, before founding 3is US Centrica plc and three years as Company Private Equity Business in New York.
Prior Secretary of Allied Zurich plc, the UK listed to his career in private equity, he was with holding company of the Zurich Financial Procter & Gamble and McKinsey & Services Group.
Robin is currently a Board he was Assistant Secretary of B.
A. T member of Nets Denmark, ICBPI Italy Industries plc.
