Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders Top 100 investors concentration We are fully committed to engaging with all shareholders, including Others Top 5 investors 20.1% 18.7% employee shareholders, and this is reflected in our annual investor relations and communications programmes.
In our interactions with shareholders, we ensure that we act professionally, provide accurate data, are timely with our disclosure of information to the market and are at all times accessible to both current and potential shareholders.
Rest of top 100 investors Our Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations is the 22.5% Rest of top 30 investors senior executive who has day-to-day responsibility for all investor 38.7% relations matters and for contact with shareholders institutional and private, as well as with financial analysts and the media.
He reports totheChief Financial Officer and Group Chief Executive.
Shareholder concentration All investor communication is governed by written guidelines to Individual and other ensure the appropriate governance of the processes for engaging private investors with shareholders and financial analysts is maintained.
In addition, 11.4% these guidelines govern the prompt disclosure of inside information which couldaffect the Companys share price.
Shareholder notifications Institutional investors 88.6% As at 31 July 2015 and as at the date of this report, the Company had received notification of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Number of shares held Percentage of issued Geographical breakdown of shareholder base Name millions voting share capital FIL Limited 14,070,947 4.96% AXA S. A.
13,065,225 4.60% United Kingdom Legal & General Group Plc 8,361,368 3.05% Asia 53.7% North America 4.3% Europe 31.2% excluding UK 9.2% Rest of World 1.6% Wolseley plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Engagement with shareholders Plans for engagement in2015 16 During the year, an extensive communications programme A similar investor relations programme will be run during the financial was followed.
We maintained regular dialogue with institutional year.
In addition, the Investor Relations team will be meeting with shareholders and financial analysts based in Europe and North members of the UK Shareholders Association prior to the AGM in America.
Many of these meetings and conversations closely December 2015. involved the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
On 12 November 2015, the Group will be holding a US investor We released quarterly updates on the financial performance day.
At the meeting there will be a series of management meetings of the Group incorporating revenue, profitability by region, net on Ferguson strategy and performance.
The event is being held at debt and appropriate commentary on key business trends.
the Companys new ship hub in Secaucus, New Jersey.
A tour of Jacky Simmonds, in her capacity as the Chair of the Remuneration the facility will also take place in addition to visiting a local branch.
Committee, engaged with major shareholders inrelation to executive The Company plans to webcast the presentation on the Wolseley plc remuneration and other matters.
Darren Shapland, the Chairman website www.
of the Audit Committee, also engaged with major shareholders in relation to the tendering of the Companys external audit activities.
AGM As our shareholder base is mainly institutional, it is difficult to Each year, the AGM is held in Switzerland with an audio-visual link engage with all of our private shareholders using the same direct to London.
The link provides shareholders in London the ability engagement model.
We hold periodic meetings with the UK to see and hear proceedings, and to put questions directly to the Shareholders Association and respond to all communications from Board about the business of the meeting and about the Company.
In an effort to ensure that all shareholders The Board as a whole is committed to the constructive use of the have equal access to information we make all documents presented AGM as a way to meet with shareholders, hear their views and at investor events available onthe Wolseley plc website.
There is answer their questions.
All Directors attended the 2014 AGM and also a shareholder information section on the Wolseley plc website answered a wide range of questions from shareholders.
com and at the end ofthis report on pages 167 of the 2015 AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM and are to175.
available on the Wolseley plc website www.
Shareholder meetings during the year We are keen to maintain an open dialogue with all of our shareholders and have a well developed investor relations programme.
The allocation of time spent in the UK, continental Europe and North America reflects the distribution of our shareholders as highlighted on page 65.
During the year ended 31 July 2015, there were a total of 258 meetings.
Ian Meakins and John Martin together with the Investor Relations team attended 117 meetings, Gareth Davis the Chairman of the Board together with the Investor Relations team attended four meetings, Frank Roach together with members of the US senior management team attended 39 meetings and the Investor Relations team met with institutions through a further 124 meetings, conferences and calls.
The Chairman often meets with the larger institutional shareholders and also ensures that the Board as a whole maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also attend presentations of the Full Year and Half Year results when possible.
The Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations regularlyprovides the Board with details of feedback received from institutional shareholders and any key issues raised.
Wolseley plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
