Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Effectiveness The Chairman regularly discusses the way the Board functions and Maintaining an effective Board broad governance matters with the Senior Independent Director and the Group Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Board relationships Director separately held informal discussions with the Non Executive The effective working of the Board is crucial to the long-term Directors, with and without the presence of the Chairman.
prospects and strategic aims of the Company.
This is achieved through strong and open working relationships between the To ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other strategic Directors and, in particular, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive issues were discussed at the appropriate time, there was detailed andSenior Independent Director, whose roles are agreed and planning throughout the year.
The Boards 12-month rolling agenda set out in writing.
A short summary of their roles and division of was reviewed during the year.
responsibilities is set out below.
Board support Roles and division of responsibilities Chairman The Board and its Committees are provided with sufficient resourcesto undertake their duties.
Richard Shoylekov was Responsible for overall leadership and governance of the Board Secretary to the Board and its Committees during the year including induction, development and performance evaluation.
and handed over to Graham Middlemiss at the start of the new financial year.
He is now the Group General Counsel with overall Ensures that the Directors have an understanding of the views accountability for governance.
In advance of each set of meetings, ofthe Companys major shareholders.
papers and other information are delivered so that all Directors are Ensures a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board provided with necessary time and resources to fulfil their duties.
This information is published in advance via a secure web portal, allowing remote access by Directors using an iPad, and meeting Group Chief Executive support is provided by the Company Secretariat department.
All Directors have access to a reading room through the web portal Responsible for the effective leadership of the Company.
which provides access to a library of relevant information about the Strong and focused management and development of the Company, the Group and Board procedures.
Groups operations and business models.
The Board has an established procedure for Directors, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense Implementation of the Companys objectives and strategy in furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the direct access agreed by the Board.
that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary for his Maintaining good relationships and communications advice and services.
Composition and development of the Board Working closely with the Chief Financial Officer to ensure Upon appointment, all new Directors follow a comprehensive prudent financial controls.
As part of this programme, the Company Developing and implementing policies integral to improving Secretariat department and other Group functions provide new the business, including in relation to health and safety Directors with induction briefings.
New Directors also visit a variety and sustainability.
of businesses in order to familiarise themselves with the Groups operations.
There were no new Director appointments during Senior Independent Director the year.
Available for approach by or representations from investors All Directors are provided opportunities for further development andshareholders, where communications through the and training following their induction and, during the year, the Chairman or Executive Directors may not seem appropriate.
Chairman discusses a development plan with each Director.
In addition to regular updates on governance, legal and regulatory A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for matters, theBoard also receives detailed briefings from advisers theother Directors when necessary.
on a varietyoftopics that are relevant to the Group and its strategy.
The annual formal review of governance provides the Directors Available to chair the Board in the absence of the Chairman.
withan opportunity to assess their effectiveness and that of the Board asa whole.
Wolseley plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Effectiveness continued Evaluating the performance of the Board and theDirectors The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that of its Committees each year, with an external evaluation every three years.
In 2014, an internal review was undertaken and during the year the Board reviewed its progress against the action points identified in this review.
A summary of how the action points have been addressed is provided below: Action point Responsibility Outcome Continued focus on market environment Board Regular updates were provided to the Board concerning the and performance relative to competitors.
performance of the Company which included updates on the relative performance of competitors when this information became available.
In addition, the Board undertook in-depth reviews of the Groups major businesses, which included reports from management on the market environment in which the businesses operated.
Continued focus on the Groups growth Board The Board regularly reviews growth opportunities.
During the opportunities organically through the year, the Board reviewed and approved proposals for business development ofits business models and acquisitions and for capital expenditure to support other through acquisitions.
For more information on acquisitions see the Group Chief Executives overview on page 15 and note 30 to the consolidated financial statements Board and Committee effectiveness review Key findings and improvement actions This year, an externally facilitated review of the Board and its The review concluded that the Board was very effective and Committees was conducted by Margaret Exley of SCT Consultants.
worked well together in a climate of openness, which encouraged Ms Exley was selected to undertake the review due to her extensive differences of opinion to be sought, heard and respected.
experience dealing with boards of large organisations and expertise The Boards work on strategy, in particular making clear and in conducting board effectiveness reviews.
Neither Margaret effective strategic choices, was commended.
Oversight of business Exley or SCT Consultants has any connection with the Company.
performance was rigorous and focused.
The review praised the The review was conducted through a combination of questionnaires, quality of information presented to the Board.
Engagement with in-depth confidential interviews with each of the Directors and the shareholders was also considered to be a strength.
The Audit, Group General Counsel, document review and observation of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees were well chaired Board.
Ms Exley attended the March 2015 Board and Committee and had effective terms of reference.
It was noted that all Non meetings.
The review considered the role and composition of the Executive Directors were also members of the Audit, Nominations Board: how the Board approaches its work strategy, performance and Remuneration Committees.
The Board considered that management, people development and succession, investment this approach to Committee membership promoted greater reviews, communication and stakeholder engagement : the culture transparency and effective decision-making.
No critical issues were and dynamics of the Board: and whether it optimises and effectively identified but the review did identify areas for further improvement uses its time to ensure that the key aspects of board effectiveness which are summarised below.
As at the date of this report, the were reviewed.
Board has already begun to incorporate these action points into its processes and procedures.
The Board review undertaken by Ms Exley considered the Action Responsibility effectiveness of each of the Committees, each Director, and the Company Secretary.
The findings were reported to the Performance reporting to have greater range Finance Chairman.
Each was found to perform effectively, with no material of financial and non-financial data and key concerns raised.
Continued focus on succession planning for Board and Also during the year the Non Executive Directors, led by the Senior the Board and senior management and talent Nominations Independent Director, undertook the performance evaluation of the development generally in the business.
Such evaluation also took account of the views of the Executive Directors.
The Chairmans performance was highly rated.
Continued focus on and detailed review of Board progress made with the Groups strategy and The results of the review formed the basis of discussion of areas for specific strategic initiatives.
further improvement by the Board and its Committees.
The Board continues to consider each of the Directors to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
Next year, the Board effectiveness review will be facilitated internally using an online survey as with previous internally-conducted reviews.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the next  effectiveness review will be conducted during the year ending 31 July 2018.
Wolseley plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Time commitment All Directors are aware, from the time of appointment, of the need to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Board continually monitors potential conflicts of interest, as detailed on page 73.
No Director has been unable to devote sufficient time to the role during the year and each Director has attended all scheduled Board meetings.
Accountability The Board is committed to presenting a clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects through the information provided in this report, through interim financial statements and other reports as required.
The Boards approach to risk management The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives andfor maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The effectiveness of these systems is also reviewed through the work of the Audit Committee described on pages 66 to 70.
There is a Group-wide standard framework in place which supports the Groups risk management programme and allows the Board to assess and manage risk through its strategic planning and performance monitoring processes.
During the year, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company.
The principal risks which the Board has focused on this year are set out in the Principal risks and their management section of this report on pages 44 to 51.
Remuneration Further details relating to the level and components of remuneration, together with the Company policies on such matters, are provided in theRemuneration Report on pages 77 to 102.
Wolseley plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
