How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Report by Roberto Quarta Chairman of the Company and chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Dear share owner his is my first letter as chairman of One of the differences between our business and your Company, having taken up the many others is that its principal assets are not plant role last June.
Senior staff retention is strong.
I have run companies in sectors as The business was built in part through acquisition and diverse as manufacturing, engineering, many founders of acquired companies are still with us distribution and electronics so, while long after their earn-outs have ended.
my background is not in advertising and marketing Speaking of entrepreneurs, it hardly needs me to say services, I would like to think that this degree of separation that your Companys founder has made an extraordinary from the business, and the breadth of my own experience, contribution to this business as CEO.
The accolades Sir lend both independence and perspective two qualities Martin receives on a regular basis say it better than I ever essential for any chairman.
In the last year alone he was named the worlds fifth Over the years people have asked me: what is the best performing CEO by the Harvard Business Review, chairmans agenda?
There is and voted the joint most impressive business person in only the agenda of our stakeholders: whether they are our the UK in the Ipsos MORI Captains of Industry survey.
people, clients, share owners or the broader communities This recognition matters, because it adds to the with whom we have relationships.
reputation of your Company and all the operating With that in mind, here are some notes from a relative businesses within it.
Sir Martins public profile, as one newcomer after what has been yet another record year of the worlds most successful CEOs and a leading for WPP.
commentator on global economic affairs, is of enormous First, reasons to celebrate.
We have an excellent material value to WPP, bringing prestige, talent and new business.
It produces stellar results year in, business to the Group.
year out and enjoys on balance contented investors.
