How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Second, some reflections.
This may be my first year as WPPs succession planning, as my distinguished your chairman, but I am aware of the rhythms and rituals predecessor Ambassador Philip Lader said last year, of the Company calendar.
is steadily more rigorous and comprehensive.
In the lead-up to our AGM there will be debate about We are obliged to consider succession from two angles: compensation.
first, as an orderly, planned process: and second, as The record performances that form executive pay mean something potentially more sudden as recent tragic events that share owners have been handsomely rewarded over the have shown.
As Philip said, Sir Martin, like all of us, years as their investments increase in value substantially.
is not immune from being hit by the proverbial bus.
At some point we all leave our jobs.
The question The first thing to remember about compensation is when.
Whether, in Sir Martins case, that happens schemes is that they dont happen overnight.
The headlines tomorrow, in one, two, three, four or five years, or even we will inevitably read concern obligations and agreements over a longer period, we have already begun to identify put in place several years ago for our executives.
internal and external candidates who should be considered.
The Board must assess whether pay is aligned with Since joining your Board, I have seen first-hand a share owner interest.
Its about rigorous and comprehensive process, where independent alignment.
Was the pay plan approved by a majority of members of the Board and the chairman regularly meet share owners?
The plan was laid out: not just those who report directly to Sir Martin, but also the results are laid out.
The performance is there: the the senior tier below.
This is a matter of record, contract and Seeing people regularly, gives your Board insight into history.
individual businesses and helps us get to know senior Other changes are on the horizon.
This year we have management and consider whether they have the attributes instituted an  Board review by a for a future chief executive of this Group.
leading expert in this field.
Do they understand the Group or just their own I promised share owners that we would appoint a business?
Familiarity with clients, familiarity with strategy well-known, respected professional to review our Board are key.
What would they do if they became chief composition and effectiveness and that we would report executive?
in due course on the outcome.
Before and since my appointment, the Board has had a The review has evaluated Board processes, Board very productive session in which all members shared views discipline, composition, dynamics and effectiveness.
on who, specifically, might or could succeed Sir Martin Our expert has attended Board and committee meetings now or in the more distant future.
The list of candidates as an observer and held one-to-one discussions with each discussed must be constantly refined and reconsidered and director and the Company Secretary.
I and the other independent members of the Board will The full report will be considered by the Board at the continue to focus on this in 2016 and beyond.
end of April and will help us to be a more effective and Share owners should have no doubt that we already efficient Board, whose agenda reflects the needs of the have a strong pool of internal and external candidates to Board, and the Companys stakeholders.
and one I aim to do with fresh eyes and ears.
114 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report As part of the Board evaluation process, we are identifying its strengths and weaknesses.
My idea of a great Board is a group of diverse people sitting round the table who bring informed, well thought-out, experienced perspectives and who, when combined, add value to the business.
While the proportion of women on our Board, for example, is in line with internal targets of 30%, there is always room for further improvement.
Fourth, a thank you and a sad farewell.
As I complete my first letter to share owners, I would like to thank Philip Lader for his outstanding 14 years as your chairman.
His ready wit, fine style and tremendous scope of vision are well known.
On behalf of every Board member I wish him the very best for the future and register our deep gratitude for his service.
I would also like to remember and honour the wisdom and service of Roger Agnelli, a non-executive director since 2013 who died tragically in March this year.
I am well aware that I can only claim the status of newcomer for so long, and that I have a window of opportunity to deliver the things I have described.
Whatever issues we identify collectively will not be solved by revolution theyll be solved by evolution.
Logical steps, clearly understood by all, taken in the interests of everyone with a stake in the future of this remarkable Company.
Roberto Quarta 15 April 2016 115 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Review of the Companys Succession planning governance and the Nomination and Governance Committee As the new chairman and chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee, I have had extensive discussions with share owners on the issue of succession Report by Roberto Quarta and understand their request for greater transparency of Chairman of the Nomination and reporting and to integrate the Board evaluation process Governance Committee with succession planning.
The committee and the full Board fully appreciates that strategic, thoughtful and practical succession planning is critical to the long-term Nomination and Governance Committee members success of the Company.
The Board has for some time had a strategy in place Attendance at 4 meetings in 2015 for an agreed or foreseen departure of the senior 1 Roberto Quarta Chairman 3 management team including the CEO and CFO and also 2 Philip Lader 2 in the event of sudden emergencies, where an individual Charlene Begley 4 cannot continue working.
3,5 Roger Agnelli 2 During 2015, the Board has held three detailed senior Ruigang Li 1 management and CEO succession planning reviews and 4 Daniela Riccardi 1 has met with the senior management teams of all of the 2 Jeffrey Rosen 2 major operating companies within the Group and in Hugo Shong 4 many cases the tier of managers below to develop their 3 Tim Shriver 3 understanding of the diversity of the pipeline of internal Sally Susman 3 candidates and continually reassess the succession plans.
1 Appointed to the committee on 9 February 2015.
The committee has also considered the attributes for 2 Retired from the committee on 9 June 2015. future non-executive director appointments in the context 3 Retired from the committee on 10 October 2015.
4 of the strategic development of the Group, which include Appointed to the committee on 10 October 2015.
5 Roger Agnelli tragically died on 19 March 2016. business-specific and digital or data analytics expertise, back office integration and UK governance experience.
Dear share owner New senior independent director Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged in 2015 The Board announced the appointment of Nicole Seligman as senior independent director on 4 April 2016, following he principal focus of the four meetings the recommendation of the committee and succeeding of the Nomination and Governance Jeffrey Rosen who retired at the 2015 AGM.
Ms Seligman committee in 2015 were: was appointed to the Board in January 2014 and has served succession planning for the CEO on the Compensation Committee and attended the other and senior management: committee meetings at the invitation of the chairmen Board and committee composition: of those committees.
the appointment of a new senior independent director and chairman of the Audit Committee: Board evaluation: and share ownership guidelines for non-executive directors.
