How were doing Landor businesses, promoting Mat Weiss to MD in Africa, a See report by Lois Jacobs, chief executive officer, market in which we work closely with Ogilvy.
In APAC, on page 60. where our Ogilvy-shared venture is a source of pride and potential, the business is maturing under the leadership of Monica Lee Asia North and Graham Hitchmough Group XP Asia South.
We won new client relationships, including KPMG, Report by Simon Bolton Tencent, Dell, Liberty Mutual, Simply Health and Telekom Group chief executive officer Malaysia.
Our long-standing Key Client program remains vital, especially in the context of broader horizontal s this report goes to press, I am delighted partnerships across WPP, including Vodafone, GSK, to announce the formation of Group XP.
Bank of America, IHG and CBRE.
We triumphed at This group provides an experiential branding Asias Transform Awards, with eight wins, including capability to clients ready to challenge their the Grand Prix for Pizza Hut.
Comprising Brand We carry momentum and energy into 2016 and Union, FITCH and newly-acquired SET which will also are excited by the opportunities that Group XP brings.
continue to operate individually the group constitutes one of the worlds largest brand experience consulting groups, FITCH featuring a thousand smart minds across a network of 40 Report by Simon Bolton offices and spanning five continents.
Worldwide chief executive officer Below are the reports for the three businesses for 2015. esigning the Future remains our mission Brand Union at FITCH and Im happy to report that we Report by Toby Southgate are delivering.
We use our rich retail heritage Worldwide chief executive officer and understanding of the customer journey to evolve unique, responsive physical and digital experiences.
015 was a year of change as we took further steps Im pleased to report that it has been a year of strong to deliver our belief: the experience of the brand business growth, particularly in North America.
This belief captures the shift in the won some significant projects: notably, we are working wider world of marketing, a shift that requires with Ford to define new customer experiences in the world new capabilities and approaches.
In July 2015, as one of of automobiles and mobility.
the architects of this belief, I succeeded Simon Bolton as Other major client wins include Samsung, Mars, worldwide CEO to lead this charge.
We believe that the broadcast model of brand building Hamleys Worlds of Play opened in Moscow in is inefficient.
Control now sits with users, consumers, March 2015 and has been recognised at several retail audiences and stakeholders of all kinds, empowered with design awards, including Store Design of the Year at the unlimited information and the gift of immediate World Retail Awards.
FITCH has also been recognised as gratification.
These new dynamics are core to our advisory Design Firm of the Year for a remarkable fifth consecutive skillset.
We are working further upstream than ever, year in the US.
FITCH won its first Silver and Bronze helping businesses navigate their futures, building more Cannes Lions for Formation, our book that pays tribute relevant, sustainable strategies for growth and engagement.
to the craft of the adidas World Cup identity.
This approach is now embedded around our network.
We began 2015 by consolidating our global studios John Shaw, our chief product officer, continues to develop a into three regions overseen by regional CEOs.
Hermann team that embodies this commitment.
This year, Iain Ellwood Behrens joined us in March to lead the business in North joined us as worldwide strategic growth director.
David Blair, previously MD for EMEA, expanded deep, global experience rooted in quantitative rigour.
his role to build the business in India, which he originally Our new approach delivered growth overall and was established in 2007. particularly strong in New York, Singapore, Madrid, Our growth in 2015 came in spite of an increase in Paris and Hong Kong.
We re-set our German and African caution on the part of many brands and retailers in more 74 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
