How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Non-executive directors interests audited Non-executive directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital are shown in the following table.
Except as disclosed in this table and in the Compensation Committee report, no non-executive director had any interest in any contract of significance with the Group during the year.
Total interests at 31 December 2015 or Board Non-executive director retirement date, if earlier Total interests at 15 April 2016 1 Philip Lader 11,950 n a Roberto Quarta 19,000 21,800 2 Roger Agnelli Jacques Aigrain 9,000 9,000 Charlene Begley 1,000 2,140 1 Colin Day 15,240 n a Sir John Hood Ruigang Li 4,000 4,000 Daniela Riccardi 1 Jeffrey Rosen 12,000 n a Nicole Seligman 3,750 3,750 Hugo Shong Timothy Shriver 10,070 10,070 Sally Susman Sol Trujillo 10,000 10,000 1 Retired from the WPP Board following the 2015 AGM 9 June 2015, share interests pre-retirement.
2 Roger Agnelli tragically died on 19 March 2016.
136 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Outstanding share-based awards Executive Share Awards ESAs held by executive directors All Executive Share Awards granted under the Restricted Stock Plan are made on the basis of satisfaction of previous performance conditions and are subject to continuous employment until the vesting date.
The table does not include the 2015 ESAs as these will not be granted until after publication of this Annual Report.
Unless otherwise noted, awards are made in the form of WPP ordinary shares.
2 Dividend shares will be due on these awards.
137 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Long-term incentive plans Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan III The following table summarises all of the awards outstanding under LEAP III.
Long-term incentive plans Executive Performance Share Plan The following table summarises all of the awards outstanding under Executive Performance Share Plan.
Full details of the 2015 EPSP award, including performance measures and targets, can be found on page 131.
138 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation of reward policy for management outside the Board As noted on pages 146 and 147, the Company uses Share incentive dilution for 2005 to 2015 share-based compensation across the workforce to incentivise, retain and recruit talent and to encourage The share incentive dilution level, measured on a 10-year a strong ownership culture among employees.
The use rolling basis, was at 2.9% at 31 December 2015 2014: of the main share plans in 2015 is described below.
It is intended that awards under all plans, other than share options, will all be satisfied with purchased shares The Restricted Stock Plan held either in the ESOPs or in treasury.
The WPP Leaders, Partners and High Potential program provided awards to approximately 1,700 of our key Sir John Hood executives in 2015.
Awards will vest three-years after Chairman of the Compensation Committee grant, provided the participant is still employed within on behalf of the Board of Directors of WPP plc the Group.
Awards are subject to malus conditions and 15 April 2016 for awards granted in 2016 onwards, clawback conditions will also apply.
WPP Share Option Plan 2015 At the 2015 AGM share owners approved the WPP Share Option Plan 2015 as the replacement for the Executive Stock-Option Plan and Worldwide Ownership Plan.
During 2015, the WPP Share Option Plan 2015 was used to make awards to over 48,000 employees.
By 31 December 2015, options under this plan, and its predecessor plan, the Worldwide Ownership Plan, had been granted to approximately 147,000 employees over 72.9 million shares since March 1997.
During 2015, approximately 20,000 WPP employees who had received awards under the Worldwide Ownership Plan, took advantage of the rising share price and exercised their options.
While the WPP Share Option Plan 2015 provides the authority to make executive option awards in addition to all-employee awards, no executive option awards were granted in 2015.
139 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy The Compensation Committee would like to present the Executive Remuneration Policy.
This is the policy that was approved by share owners at the 2014 AGM.
It is the intention of the committee that this policy will be maintained for three years from approval.
In 2015, the Policy was amended to remove references that were specific to Mark Read who retired from the Board on 27 January, include references to clawback provisions being included in the incentive plans: and inclusion of share ownership guidelines for non-executive directors.
The policy is subject to periodic reviews during its operation.
The committee believes that this policy continues to align with the Companys mission statement and business objectives and no changes are being put to share owners for consideration at this years AGM.
WPPs compensation philosophy Our mission statement and our six business objectives shape our compensation philosophy.
Broadly, our Executive Remuneration Policy is determined by three guiding principles: performance-driven reward: competitiveness: and alignment with share owner interests.
Specifically, our six business objectives as set out on page 35 are reflected in the design of our compensation plans as set out below: WPPs six business objectives Alignment with compensation structure Continue to improve operating margins on net sales Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief executive and Group finance director Increase exibility in the cost structure Short-term incentive measure for the Group finance director Use free cash ow to enhance share owner value TSR, EPS growth and average ROE are long-term incentive and improve return on capital employed measures for the executive directors Continue to develop the value added by the parent Short-term incentive measures parent company-led company efficiency projects for the Group finance director Emphasise revenue and net sales growth more Short-term incentive measures for the Group chief executive as margins improve and Group finance director Improve still further the creative capabilities Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief executive and reputation of all our businesses The Executive Remuneration Policy is designed to attract and retain the best-in-class talent.
The policy looks to incentivise the directors to develop the skills of the Groups employees in order to consistently exceed our clients expectations.
The policys objective is to drive and reward sustainable and exceptional performance, thereby producing long-term value for share owners.
In applying this policy, the committee takes into account the pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, which in turn are informed by general market conditions and internal factors such as the performance of the Group or relevant business unit.
Considerations taken into account when setting our Executive Remuneration Policy Employment conditions at WPP When reviewing changes to the compensation levels for the directors, the committee considers any changes in light of the increases awarded across the Group over a relevant period of time, in conjunction with the other factors set out in the policy table.
The committee did not consult employees when drawing up this Executive Remuneration Policy.
140 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Share owner views WPP continues to engage openly with share owners and institutional investors to discuss matters relating to compensation.
The feedback received during these conversations is valuable and is among the factors that inform the decisions made by the committee.
During 2013, the committee consulted with share owners on the design of the EPSP.
The selection of performance measures took account of the feedback received.
More generally, formal and informal share owner feedback was used by the committee when drafting this Executive Remuneration Policy.
Glossary The following are acronyms used throughout the policy: Acronym Definition DEPs Dividend Equivalent Payments DSUs Deferred Stock Units EPSP Executive Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan introduced in 2013 ESA Executive Share Award the part of the STIP that is deferred into shares ExSOP Executive Stock Option Plan Good Leaver Broadly, when an individual is dismissed other than for cause the particular meaning applicable to each share plan can be found in the relevant rules LEAP Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan long-term incentive plan used to grant awards until the end of 2012 RSP Restricted Stock Plan STIP Short-term Incentive Plan the annual incentive plan comprising a cash bonus and an ESA Executive Remuneration Policy table executive directors The following table sets out details of the ongoing compensation elements for WPPs executive directors.
Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Fixed elements of compensation Base salary and fees Base salary and fee levels are reviewed Company and personal Under normal To maintain package every two years or following a significant performance will be taken circumstances base salary competitiveness and change in the scope of a role.
into account during the and fees will increase by reflect skills and review process.
no more than the local Levels are determined by taking a experience.
rate of inflation over the number of relevant factors into account period since last review.
including individual and business performance, level of experience, scope In the event of a promotion of responsibility, compensation practices or a significant change across the Group and the competitiveness in the scope of the role, of total compensation against both our or changes in sector competitors and companies of a similar competitive pay or the size and complexity.
need to counter a competitive external offer, the committee may exceed this limit.
141 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Short-term incentives details of how performance measures and targets are set are included in the notes to this table on pages 146 and 147 Cash bonus, Executive Overview 70% subject to financial Group chief executive: Share Awards ESA The committee may invite executives performance, either at a Group 435% of base salary To drive the achievement to participate in the STIP under which and or divisional level depending and fees.
of business priorities for the a bonus can be made subject to on the role.
Other executive directors: financial year and to performance measured over the financial 30% subject to personal objectives 300% of base salary motivate, retain and year.
Bonus opportunity is determined linked to the strategy of WPP or and fees.
reward executives over as a percentage of salary and fees.
the medium term, while The value of any accrued Performance measures and targets are maximising alignment The committee will use its dividends will vary reviewed and set annually to ensure with share owner interests.
judgement in assessing depending on the size continuing strategic alignment.
performance relative to targets of the ESA awarded, Achievement levels are determined and expectations communicated dividends declared following year-end by the committee, at the start of the year and will and share price over based on performance against targets.
consider unforeseen factors that the deferral period.
Executive directors bonuses are delivered may have impacted performance in the form of a cash award and a deferred during the period.
share award ESA, the latter constituting Vesting schedule at least 50% of the total bonus achieved.
The following table sets out the The ESA will vest after a minimum of two level of bonus payable for years subject to continued employment, threshold and target performance together with additional shares in respect as a percentage of maximum.
Vesting operates on a straight-line Judgement basis between these points.
The committee will use its judgement to set the performance measures and Target as percentage targets annually.
Threshold of maximum Malus provisions ESA Sir Martin The committee has the ability to reduce any Sorrell 0% 50% unvested ESA in certain situations, including Other when fraud or a material misstatement has executive affected the level of any performancedirectors 0% 67% related remuneration.
Clawback provisions The committee has the ability to clawback cash bonus, earned in respect of the performance year 2016 or after, in the three years post payment in certain situations, including when fraud, breach of fiduciary duty or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performancerelated remuneration.
142 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Long-term incentives details of how performance measures and targets are set are included in the notes to this table on pages 146 and 147 Executive Performance Overview One-third relative TSR.
Conditional awards: Share Plan EPSP Executives may receive an annual conditional One-third headline EPS growth.
Plan maximum: 9.75 times To incentivise long-term award expressed as a percentage of base One-third average ROE.
performance and to focus salary and fees.
Executives may also receive All measures are assessed Group chief executive: on long-term retention and an award in respect of the number of independently of each other.
9.75 times base salary strategic priorities, while reinvested dividends proportionate to the and fees.
maximising alignment amount of the award vesting, the dividends TSR is measured on a marketwith share owner interests.
declared during the performance period capitalisation weighted basis Other directors: four times and the share price at the time the dividend against a peer group of business base salary and fees.
Awards will vest subject to competitors that are selected performance, measured over a period The value of accrued according to size and relevance.
of five consecutive financial years.
dividends will vary This peer group is reviewed depending on the level annually at the start of each In respect of merger and acquisition activity of vesting, dividends cycle to ensure it remains robust, within the peer group, the committee has declared and share appropriate and relevant in light an established and operated policy that TSR price over the of WPPs business mix.
Half of the outcomes should not be impacted by the performance period.
TSR element is measured on a speculation or actuality of takeovers of peer local currency basis, half on a group companies including WPP.
This policy common currency basis.
includes a minimum listing requirement, an approach for the reinvestment of proceeds EPS is defined as WPPs headline, from shares of companies that delist during fully diluted, earnings per share.
the performance period and parameters The EPS performance is calculated for companies subject to bid speculation.
by taking the aggregate EPS over Details of how this policy is implemented the performance period and will be disclosed each year in the relevant calculating the compound annual Annual Report.
growth from the financial year preceding the start of the period.
Discretions In accordance with the EPSP rules that were ROE is calculated as fully diluted approved by share owners at the 2013 AGM, EPS divided by the average if the committee considers that there has balance sheet per share value been an exceptional event or that there of share owners equity during have been exceptional circumstances during the year.
a performance period that have made it materially easier or harder for the Company Vesting schedule to achieve a performance measure, the Awards will vest on a straight-line committee may adjust the extent to which basis from 20% for threshold an award vests to mitigate the effect of the performance and 100% for exceptional event or circumstances.
Malus provisions The committee has the ability to reduce any unvested EPSP award in certain situations, including when fraud or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related remuneration.
Clawback provisions The committee has the ability to clawback the amount net of tax received by an executive from the proceeds of the vesting of an award granted in 2016 or later years, in the three years post payment, in certain situations, including when fraud, breach of fiduciary duty or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related remuneration.
143 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Long-term incentives legacy plans with unvested awards Leadership Equity Overview 100% relative TSR measured on The following maximum Acquisition Plan III Executives were invited to participate in a  weighted, levels applied at the LEAP III the plan annually by the committee.
No further To incentivise long-term order to participate, individuals must have awards can be granted Vesting schedule performance and to focus committed to hold an investment level under LEAP III, and none The following table sets out the on long-term retention and in WPP shares which is determined by have been made since level of award that will vest for strategic priorities, while the committee, subject to an overall 2012. threshold and target performance maximising alignment maximum, and must be held for the full as a percentage of maximum.
Investment: one times with share owner interests.
Investment an executive directors levels were determined by the committee, total target earnings Threshold Maximum subject to an overall maximum.
A final base salary and fees All number of matching shares will be plus target bonus.
executive awarded, proportionate to the investment, directors 30% 100% dependent on the performance of WPP.
Award: Five times Executives may also receive an award an executive directors in respect of the number of reinvested investment.
To achieve threshold vesting WPP dividends proportionate to the amount must outperform at least 50% of of the award vesting, the dividends The value of accrued the market-cap weighted peer declared during the performance period dividends will vary group: to achieve maximum and the share price at the time the depending on the level vesting WPP must outperform dividend is declared.
The Plan was of vesting, dividends at least 90% of the market-cap closed to the grant of new awards at declared and share price weighted peer group.
31 December 2012. over the investment and performance period.
Discretions Following the end of the performance period, the committee undertakes a fairness review to determine whether any exceptional events have impacted the outcome and that the resulting match is in line with financial performance relative to the comparator group and the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Merger and acquisition activity will be treated in accordance with the policy set out under the EPSP above.
Malus provisions The committee has the ability to reduce any unvested LEAP III award in certain situations, including when fraud or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related remuneration.
144 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Maximum annual Component and purpose Operation Performance opportunity Other items in the nature of compensation Dividend Equivalent The Company has previously received share No longer subject to a The value of any accrued Payments DEPs owner approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to performance requirement dividends will vary on the DSUs defer receipt of the DSUs.
The Company as this was assessed at depending on the To ensure that Sir Martin makes a cash payment to Sir Martin Sorrell the point of vesting in 1999. dividends declared during Sorrell receives an amount of an amount equal to the dividends that the deferral period.
equal to the dividends would have been due on the shares that would be payable comprising the DSUs.
if he had taken receipt of and retained the shares underlying the DSUs.
Benefits The following benefits are payable in Not applicable.
Set at a level that the To enable the executives relation to travel and the dual headquarter committee feels is required to undertake their role by split between the UK and the US to some all in order for the executive ensuring their well-being of the executive directors.
The provision of to carry out their role.
these benefits reflects external competitive maximum payable will practice, the complex nature of the Group not significantly exceed and the significant amount of time spent the payments made travelling by the executives.
in 2013, although the committee may pay The typical benefits that executive directors more than this if the cost receive may include a car and or car of providing the same allowance plus the use of a driver as benefits increases, or if required: medical, life and disability the executive relocates.
insurance: accommodation allowance in lieu of hotel expenses: tax and legal advice: home office support: club memberships deemed necessary for the role: and spousal travel.
Other benefits, such as those linked to the relocation of an executive, may be provided depending on the prevailing circumstances.
Pension Pension is provided by way of contribution Not applicable.
Group chief executive: To enable provision for to a defined contribution arrangement, 40% of base salary personal and dependant or a cash allowance, determined as a and fees.
percentage of base salary and fees.
Other executive directors: 30% of base salary and fees.
145 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Notes to the policy table EPSP Operational targets under the EPSP are set taking into account a combination of factors, but primarily internal Plan rules forecasts, analysts expectations albeit, the period over which analysts forecast is generally shorter than the Copies of the various plan rules are available for inspection five-year performance period and historical performance at the Companys registered office and head office.
Executive Remuneration Policy table provides a summary Relative TSR targets are set to ensure they are more of the key provisions relating to their ongoing operation.
stretching than UK norms and require out-performance The committee has the authority to ensure that any of our peers at median before any reward is triggered.
awards being granted, vested or lapsed are treated in accordance with the plan rules which are more extensive Cascade to WPP Group pay policy than the summary set out in the table.
As well as setting the policy for the executive directors, Selection of performance measures the Compensation Committee is also responsible for reviewing the policy for the most senior people at WPP STIP outside the Board.
Performance measures are selected by the committee on the Compensation packages for these individuals are basis of their alignment to Group strategy and are the key normally reviewed every 18 24 months.
As with the measures to oversee the operation of the business.
Measures Executive Remuneration Policy, the WPP Group pay policy are reviewed annually by the committee taking into account ensures a clear and direct link between the performance of business performance and priorities.
the Group or relevant operating company and compensation.
Substantial use of performance-driven compensation not EPSP only ensures the continued alignment of the interests of share EPS growth is a measure that is important for both owners and senior individuals within the Group, but also management and our share owners, capturing growth in enables the Group to attract, retain and motivate the talented revenue and earnings.
ROE is similarly important, and people upon whom our success depends.
provides a positive counterbalance and risk management WPP is committed to encouraging strong performance mechanism through the focus on both growth and capital through a reward system that aligns managements interests efficiencies.
With the inclusion of relative TSR, the plan with those of share owners.
also takes account of share owner views of how WPP has From a compensation perspective, this is encouraged performed relative to the companies in the peer group.
in a number of ways: senior executives participate in the same long-term Calibration of performance targets incentive plan as the executive directors, which is designed to incentivise growth, capital efficiency and share price STIP appreciation: and The performance targets for the STIP are set to incentivise share ownership is encouraged for the WPP Leaders year-on-year growth and to reward strong, sustainable approximately the top 300 executives, all of whom have performance.
Strategic targets are based upon the annual stretching ownership goals.
The committee is of the view that the Across the workforce more broadly, many employees targets for the STIP are commercially sensitive and it would participate in bonus and commission plans based on the be detrimental to the Company to disclose them in advance performance of their employing company.
In addition, where of or during the relevant performance period.
The locally competitive, employees are provided with companycommittee will disclose those targets at the end of the sponsored pension plans and life assurance plans and a range relevant performance period in that years Annual Report, of other benefits.
In addition to these compensation elements, if those targets are no longer commercially sensitive.
the Company also uses share-based compensation across the workforce to incentivise, retain and recruit talent which encourages a strong ownership culture among employees.
The main share plans are described on the following page.
146 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Restricted Stock Plan The RSP is used to satisfy awards under the short-term incentive plans including ESAs as well as to grant awards to management under the WPP Leaders, Partners and High Potential program.
In the program, awards are made to participants that vest three years after grant, provided the participant is still employed within the Group.
Executive directors are eligible to receive ESAs under the RSP, but ineligible to participate in any other aspect of the management share award program.
Executive Stock Option Plan The ExSOP is used to make special grants of options in order to attract or retain key talent.
Awards are made infrequently and executive directors are ineligible to participate, other than in a recruitment situation see page 149.
This plan expired in 2015 and was replaced by the WPP Share Option Plan 2015.
Share Option Plan 2015 The WPP Share Option Plan 2015 is an all-employee plan that makes annual grants of stock options to employees with two years of service who work in wholly-owned subsidiaries.
This plan replaced the legacy Worldwide Ownership Plan.
The WPP Share Option Plan 2015 also has the capability to make grants of executive options in order to attract or retain key talent.
Such awards are made infrequently.
147 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy How do these pay policies affect potential compensation packages?
These graphs seek to demonstrate how pay varies with performance.
The graphs are reflective of the pay policy at approval by share owners at the 2013 AGM.
There have been no changes to figures since the approval of the policy by share owners, except benefits and DEPs.
For consistency we have used the benefits and DEP figure from the year of approval by share owners 2013.
Sir Martin Sorrell 000 Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 3,061 Minimum 39% 32% 29% On-plan 7,802 On-plan 16% 26% 58% Maximum 19,264 Maximum 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Paul Richardson 000 Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum Minimum 1,022 34% 47% 19% On-plan 2,993 On-plan 17% 36% 47% Maximum 5,950 Maximum 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Fixed Short-term incentives Long-term incentives o o o The graphs are informed by three performance scenarios and these, along with the assumptions used, are summarised below.
Fixed elements Consists of base salary and fees, benefits including DEPs and pension Base salary and fees reflect current levels which are unchanged from FY2013 Benefits and DEPs are consistent with the single figure table for FY2013 Pension reflects current levels which are unchanged from FY2013 000 Base salary & fees Benefits inc. DEPs Pension Total fixed Sir Martin Sorrell 1,150 1,451 40% 3,061 Paul Richardson 704 107 30% 1,022 Short-term On-plan scenario assumes target bonus is paid incentives Maximum scenario assumes the full bonus is paid % of salary and fees Below threshold On-plan Maximum Sir Martin Sorrell 0% 217.5% 435% Paul Richardson 0% 200% 300% Long-term On-plan scenario assumes threshold vesting of an award at the current policy level incentives Maximum scenario assumes full vesting of an award at the current policy level % of salary and fees Below threshold On-plan Maximum Sir Martin Sorrell 0% 195% 974% Paul Richardson 0% 80% 400% 148 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Other executive director policies % of base salary & fees Group chief executive 600% Group finance director 300% Legacy share awards and obligations Minimum for any other new executive appointed to the Board 200% Under the Executive Remuneration Policy, outstanding awards under LEAP III, the long-term incentive plan that Executive directors will be permitted a period of seven pre-dated the EPSP, and Sir Martin Sorrells deferred years from the date of their appointment to achieve the awards will be paid in accordance with the terms agreed at guideline level.
the time and set out in previous Compensation Committee In the event that an executive director fails to achieve reports.
The key terms of Sir Martins deferred awards are the required levels of share ownership, the committee will summarised below.
decide what remedial action or penalty is appropriate.
This may involve a reduction in future share awards or requiring Deferred awards Sir Martin Sorrell only the director to purchase shares in the market to meet the ownership guidelines.
The Company has previously received share owner approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to defer receipt of his UK and Appointments to the Board US 2004, 2005 and 2007 LEAP awards and the UK part of his 2006 and 2009 LEAP awards.
The UK awards are This section sets out details with respect to the appointment options that can be exercised at any time until November of a new executive director to the Board of WPP, whether it 2017.
The US awards will vest on the earlier of the end of is an external or internal appointment.
Sir Martins employment with the Company, a change in control of the Company and 30 November 2017.
Additional Fixed compensation shares will continue to accrue in respect of dividends paid Base salary and fees will be set taking into account a range up to the point of exercise UK or vesting US.
of factors, including the profile and prior experience of the The Company has also previously received share owner candidate, internal relativities, cost and external market approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to defer receipt of the data.
If base salary and fees are set at a lower initial level UK and the US Deferred Stock Units Awards Agreements contingent on individual performance, the committee retains DSUs.
These are the awards that originally vested in 1999, the discretion to realign the base salary and fees over a having been granted in 1995 under the Capital Investment phased period of one to three years following appointment, Plan.
The UK DSU is an option that can be exercised at which may result in an exceptional rate of annualised any time until November 2017.
The US DSU will vest on increase in excess of that set out in the policy table.
the earlier of the end of Sir Martins employment with Other elements of fixed pay will be set in accordance the Company, a change in control of the Company and with the policy table, and a new appointment may require 30 November 2017.
In accordance with share owner the committee to rely on the authorised discretion as set approval, Sir Martin Sorrell receives cash dividend out on page 145 to make payments related to relocation, equivalent payments DEPs in respect of these deferred for example, in order to facilitate the appointment.
awards as noted in the policy table.
Ongoing variable compensation Share ownership guidelines The committee will seek to pay only that level of reward necessary to recruit the exceptional talent needed to lead With effect from 2013 4, executive directors and other such a complex global group.
The actual level of incentive members of the senior management team were subject to offered will be dependent on the role and existing package share ownership guidelines.
The implementation of these of the candidate.
The aggregate maximum face value for guidelines seeks to reinforce the WPP principle of alignment annual shortand long-term variable compensation will of managements interests with those of share owners.
be 10 times base salary and fees, which is materially lower The following levels of ownership are required to than the current Group chief executive maximum level.
be achieved by the executive directors: The committee retains the discretion to make awards 149 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy on recruitment, within the policy limits, to provide an The effective dates and notice periods under the current immediate alignment of interest with the interests of executive directors service contracts are summarised below: share owners.
Effective from Notice period Sir Martin Buy-out awards Sorrell 19 November 2008 At will The committee may consider buying-out remuneration Paul entitlements that the individual has had to forfeit by Richardson 19 November 2008 12 months accepting the appointment.
The structure and value of the Sir Martin Sorrells service contract may be terminated by awards will be informed by the structure and value of those either the Company or Sir Martin without any notice, and entitlements being forfeited, and the performance targets, without any payment in lieu of notice.
time horizon and vehicle will be set in an appropriate The executive directors service contracts are available for manner at the discretion of the committee.
The intention of inspection at the Companys registered office and head office.
the committee is that any award will take the form of WPP shares and will be subject to performance as far as possible.
Loss of office provisions An announcement of the directors appointment, detailing the incumbents compensation will be made on Fixed compensation elements a timely basis through a regulatory information service As noted above, the service contract of Paul Richardson and posted on the Companys website.
provide for notice to be given on termination.
The fixed compensation elements of the contract will Service contracts continue to be paid in respect of any notice period.
There The following terms will apply for any new executive role are no provisions relating to payment in lieu of notice.
If an appointed to the Board in the future.
executive director is placed on garden leave, the committee Executives will normally be appointed on a notice retains the discretion to settle benefits in the form of cash.
period of up to 12 months, although the committee retains The executive directors are entitled to compensation for the discretion to appoint an external candidate on a notice any accrued and unused holiday although, to the extent period of up to 24 months reducing on a rolling basis to it is possible and in share owner interests, the committee 12 months such that after 12 months service the notice will encourage executive directors to use their leave period would have reverted to the standard 12 months.
entitlements, prior to the end of their notice period.
At the committees discretion, any payment in lieu Except in respect of any remaining notice period, no of notice will be restricted to base salary, fees, benefits aspect of any executive directors fixed compensation is and pension.
payable on termination of employment.
Sir Martin Sorrells On termination there will be no entitlements when service contract contains an indemnity, subject to certain classified as a bad leaver defined within the incentive plans.
conditions relating to previously deferred awards, from Otherwise base salary, fees, benefits and pension allowance WPP in respect of any US tax which is charged under are payable as per the notice period and the committee will section 280G as a result of a termination linked to a change have the power to make phased payments that would be in control of WPP.
Further details are on page 151. reduced or stopped if alternative employment is taken up.
Shortand long-term compensation elements Terms specific to internal appointments If the executive director is dismissed for cause, there is not The committee can honour any pre-existing commitments an entitlement to a STIP award, and any unvested shareif an internal candidate is appointed to the Board.
Otherwise, the table on page 151 summarises the relevant provisions from the directors Service contracts service contracts cash bonus and the plan rules RSP, EPSP and LEAP III, which apply in other leaver scenarios.
The Companys policy on executive directors service As noted on page 146, the committee has the authority to contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without ensure that any awards that vest or lapse are treated in a specific end date.
accordance with the plan rules, which are more extensive than the summary set out in the table on page 151.
