80 Governance Nomination Committee report Letter from the Nomination Committee chairman Following a rigorous and transparent recruitment process, Dear Shareholder James Cullens joined the Board as an executive director on The Nomination Committee had another busy year.
1 July 2014 and succeeded Alun Griffiths as Group HR director on 30 July 2014.
We appointed Catherine Bradley as a Diversity non-executive director on 9 June 2015 following the same As I describe in my foreword to this Annual Report, our recruitment process.
commitment to building a diverse organisation continues to gain momentum.
It is pleasing that 22% of our Board is We will continue to ensure a robust approach is taken to female following the appointment of Catherine Bradley: we succession planning for the Board and senior management have made solid progress towards our one third aspiration and in the year ahead.
However, we need to do more work in the wider Group where we missed our short-term target of Yours faithfully 15% female representation at senior levels by 31 March 2015, as discussed in the People section pages 58 and 59.
Allan Cook Chairman Succession planning 10 June 2015 Board succession planning continues to be an important responsibility of the Committee as we seek to ensure it remains strong and effective.
When recruiting new members to the Board, we consider the balance of skills, experience and diversity of both existing members and potential candidates, as well as the value that they will add.
We seek to balance not only expertise and backgrounds but also thinking styles.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 81 Nomination Committee report continued For more information regarding the Nomination Committee visit: www.
com investors effectiveness The Nomination Committee Information regarding the role of the Nomination Committee, including its terms of reference, can be found on the Groups website: www.
Committee membership during the year The independent non-executive directors who served on the Committee during the year are shown in table 1.
Table 1: Members of the Committee during the year Member From To Allan Cook chairman 10 September 2009 To date Fiona Clutterbuck 25 June 2007 To date Allister Langlands 4 September 2013 To date Thomas Leppert 1 October 2013 To date Raj Rajagopal 1 March 2009 To date Rodney Slater 9 September 2011 30 July 2014 The key matters discussed by the Committee during the financial year included: Theme Agenda items Succession planning Executive directors Senior leadership team Non-executive directors Committee membership Board and committee appointments Election and re-election of directors Non-executive director search The appointment of Catherine Bradley was considered by the Committee and recommended to the Board following the conclusion of the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
Board composition The Committee regularly reviews the Boards composition to ensure that directors have the necessary skills and experience to facilitate the Groups continued development and remain well placed to continue to provide effective leadership.
Board and employee diversity The Board attaches significant importance to diversity both within its own membership and within the Group.
The background of our directors reflects the increasing internationalisation of the Group, demonstrating our ongoing commitment to diversity of perspective, experience, thought, gender, ethnicity and nationality.
We believe that creating an inclusive and diverse culture supports the attraction and retention of talented people and supports effective performance.
We reaffirm our aspiration to meet and exceed the target of 25% of Board positions being held by women by 2015, as set out by Lord Davies.
As previously stated, the Board aspires to a membership of at least one third women by 2015, without compromising its focus on diversity of thought and experience.
Following the appointment of Catherine Bradley on 9 June 2015, 22% of our Board is female.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 82 Governance Nomination Committee report continued A summary of Board diversity as at the date of this report is shown in table 2.
We recognise that the gender imbalance among our employees continues, as is the case for many other organisations in the science, technology, engineering and maths STEM sectors.
We continue to support initiatives to promote the significant career opportunities in STEM subjects to girls and young women, encouraging the development of the next generation of engineering design professionals.
More details on our commitment to promote diversity, including gender, are set out in the People section page 58 and segmental performance reviews pages 27, 34, 37, 40 and 44.
Table 2: Board diversity Board experience and composition Percentage of Board membership Board overall 100% Nationality citizenship Defence and aerospace 22.2% Energy 22.2% Engineering 44.4% Finance accountancy, 55.5% private equity and corporate finance Human resources 11.1% Legal 11.1% Management consultancy 44.4% strategic consultancy Not for profit, educational 55.5% and public entities UK: 33.3% Other global multinational boards US: 11.1% European: 22.2% Succession planning A comprehensive review of the succession plan for the executive directors and for members of the Groups senior leadership team took place during the year.
This review looked at the senior management teams and the Group functional senior employees and included the identification of emergency cover and shortand long-term succession options for all key roles.
The review also considered diversity and gender balance as well as informing any related training and development needs at a Group and individual level.
The Committee concluded that good progress had been made on the development of the Groups succession plan to date but recognised the need for management to continue to identify talent deeper within the Group.
This will be an area of continued focus over the coming year.
A matrix of skills and experience required for each role is being developed and the skills and experience of identified potential internal successors is being mapped against this matrix to identify potential gaps where development is required.
Fiona Clutterbuck and Raj Rajagopal will have served as non-executive directors for nine years in 2016 and 2017 respectively.
During the year, in anticipation of their future retirement, the Committee developed and progressed a plan to ensure that the skills and experience which they bring to the Board are maintained following their retirement from the Board.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 83 Nomination Committee report continued Appointment process James Cullens was appointed to the Board as an executive director on 1 July 2014 and succeeded Alun Griffiths as Group HR director at the end of July.
Catherine Bradley was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on 9 June 2015.
At the beginning of each appointment process, the Nomination Committee considered in detail which areas of expertise the Board, and in turn the Group, would most benefit from and drew up detailed role specifications accordingly.
Candidates were assessed against the role specification as well as undergoing a comprehensive interview process.
Gender diversity was an important part of the appointment process.
We mandated that balanced shortlists be presented for both appointments.
The executive search firm Korn Ferry supported the Board on the appointments of James Cullens and Catherine Bradley.
It has signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms launched in July 2011 and, subsequently, the enhanced version launched in July 2014 which promotes gender diversity and best practice for corporate board search processes.
During the year Korn Ferry also provided career development and management assessment services to the Group.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allan Cook Chairman 10 June 2015 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
