72 Governance Corporate governance report Letter from the chairman Diversity Dear Shareholder The Board recognises that gender imbalance among I am pleased to present the Boards annual report on corporate our employees remains an issue, as it does for many other governance.
This review, and the reports of the Nomination, organisations that work in the science, engineering, maths Audit and Remuneration Committees which follow, summarise and technology sectors.
Updates on the positive action that our activities in this important area during the year.
the Group is taking to create a more diverse profession can be found in the segmental performance sections of our Governance practices Strategic Report from page 25.
Effective corporate governance is integral to the successful delivery of our business goals.
How we work is just as Relationships with shareholders important as what we do.
We believe Atkins has developed We welcome the increasingly active engagement from you, a governance framework which fosters transparency, together our shareholders.
The Board seeks to be clear and concise in with an informed approach to risk management across our its communications with you and, taken as a whole, to provide business.
However, we recognise that there is always room for you with a fair, balanced and understandable view of the improvement.
We therefore very much welcome developments Group, its performance and prospects.
I very much look from the Financial Reporting Council FRC and others that help us continue to improve and draw upon best practice forward to discussing the Groups progress with you at our forthcoming AGM and responding to your questions.
Yours faithfully This year, as every year, the Board has reviewed the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Allan Cook Code the Code published by the FRC.
As described in this report, we successfully complied with all provisions of the Chairman 10 June 2015 Code, except the provision in respect of the requirement to put the independent audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
The Company has, however, complied with the FRCs suggested transitional arrangements regarding the timing of its audit tender and further details on its approach are provided in the Audit Committee report page 88.
Last year, a new edition of the Code was published the 2014 Code which applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The 2014 Code has therefore applied to the Company from 1 April 2015.
During the year, the FRC also published new guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
This guidance summarises the Boards responsibilities in these areas, identifies factors that should be considered in order to exercise these responsibilities effectively and provides fresh insight into establishing, monitoring and reviewing risk management and internal control systems.
The Board is reviewing this guidance, alongside the 2014 Code requirement to publish a viability statement, and will report on compliance against the 2014 Code next year.
Board membership James Cullens joined the Company during the year, succeeding Alun Griffiths as our Group HR director.
Following Rodney Slaters retirement as a non-executive director in July 2014, Thomas Leppert joined our Remuneration Committee.
I am pleased to take this opportunity to welcome Catherine Bradley to the Board.
Catherine joined as a non-executive director on 9 June 2015 and brings significant corporate finance and acquisition experience obtained in the UK, Asia, the US and Europe.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 73 Corporate governance report continued For more information about our governance framework visit: www.
com investors governance Statement of compliance with the Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2015 the Company complied with all provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published by the FRC in 2012, except the provision in respect of the requirement to put the independent audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
A copy of the Code is available on the FRCs website: www.
The disclosures that follow mirror the five sections of the Code: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders.
Full details of the Groups governance framework are available on its website: www.
Leadership The Board is responsible for ensuring the long-term success of the Company.
It does so by determining the Companys long-term direction and strategic aims within a framework of appropriate and robust controls.
A key principle of the framework is the delegation of operational management to the CEO, with a matrix of authorities setting out how this is further delegated through the businesses.
This enables the efficient and effective day to day operation of the Groups different businesses.
Further details on the roles of the chairman, CEO and senior independent director can be found on the Groups website: www.
The CEO has established two teams to enable him to discharge his responsibilities effectively: the senior leadership team SLT and the operational leadership team OLT.
The SLT has a wider strategic focus while the OLT concentrates on operational matters by providing a forum for the regional, Energy and Faithful Gould CEOs to focus on performance, sharing best practice and knowledge.
The Board has reserved a number of matters for its sole consideration.
These include: consideration and approval of strategy general oversight of the Groups operations approval of significant bids and contracts the Groups capital, corporate, management and control structures approval of financial statements and shareholder communications approval of dividend policy and interim dividends approval of Group policies and the Code of Conduct implementation and monitoring of internal control and risk management systems approval of significant acquisitions and disposals material changes to the Groups pension schemes.
While the Board has specific responsibility for the matters reserved for its consideration, in certain areas specific responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The activities of these committees are discussed in more detail in the Nomination Committee report pages 80 to 83, the Audit Committee report pages 84 to 89 and the Remuneration report pages 90 to 120.
The committee terms of reference are available on the Groups website or on request from the company secretary.
In addition the Board may delegate authority to a standing committee, consisting of any two directors, to provide final sign-off for an agreed course of action within predefined parameters.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 74 Governance Corporate governance report continued The key agenda items discussed by the Board during the year included: Theme Agenda items Financial reporting Approval of trading updates and interim management statements Approval of the full year results, 2014 AGM notice of meeting and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2014 Approval of the half year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2014 Dividend recommendation and approval as appropriate Quarterly performance updates and business reviews including human resources HR, and quality, environmental, security and safety QSSE matters Strategy Annual review of strategy Acquisition of Houston Engineering Offshore, LLC Acquisition of Terramar AS Acquisition of Nuclear Safety Associates, Inc.
Disposal of our business in Poland Operations The Groups banking facilities including amendment and extension of the Groups revolving credit facility Significant project approvals and reviews Review of Group risk log Budget Budget for the Group for the year ending 31 March 2016 Business presentations Asia Pacific Energy Faithful Gould Global Design Centre, India Middle East North America United Kingdom and Europe Governance Governance framework review, including review of risk management and internal controls Review and revision of Group policies and Board committee terms of reference Directors conflicts of interest and annual review of authorised conflicts Appointment of the independent auditor and approval of its audit fee Shareholder Updates on the views of shareholders following the announcement of results, investor meetings engagement and roadshows Independent feedback from the Groups broker following investor meetings Appointment of a joint broker Reports from the investor relations director Consideration of market reaction to key announcements Employees Review of the results of the 2014 employee engagement survey Board Outcomes of, and actions arising from, the 2013 14 review of Board effectiveness 2014 15 Board effectiveness review Approval of non-executive directors fees Board committee membership WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 75 Corporate governance report continued The Board discussed the following matters following the conclusion of the financial year ended 31 March 2015 in respect of that year: approval of pre-close trading update approval of the full year results and associated documentation final dividend recommendation.
The membership of the Board during the year is shown in table 1 along with a summary of attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees.
Biographies for each of the directors are provided separately pages 66 and 67.
1 Table 1: Board membership and Board and committee meeting attendance during the year Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Allan Cook Nomination Committee chairman 14 14 5 5 Executive directors 2 James Cullens Group HR director 10 10 Heath Drewett Group finance director 14 14 2 Alun Griffiths Group HR director 6 6 Uwe Krueger CEO 14 14 Senior independent director Fiona Clutterbuck senior independent director 14 14 4 4 5 5 5 5 Independent non-executive directors Allister Langlands Audit Committee chairman 14 14 4 4 5 5 3 7 Thomas Leppert 14 14 1 2 5 5 5 Raj Rajagopal Remuneration Committee chairman 13 14 4 4 5 5 5 5 4 6 Rodney Slater 5 6 3 3 2 2 1.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
Alun Griffiths retired as Group HR director on 30 July 2014.
James Cullens succeeded him as Group HR director on this date, following his appointment as an executive director on 1 July 2014.
Thomas Leppert was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 31 July 2014.
Rodney Slater retired as a non-executive director and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 30 July 2014.
Raj Rajagopal was unable to join one meeting which was scheduled to be held via telephone due to connectivity issues.
Rodney Slater was unable to attend one meeting due to another engagement.
Thomas Leppert was unable to attend one meeting due to a conflicting arrangement that had been made prior to him joining the Committee.
The senior independent director led the appraisal of the chairmans performance.
She sought input from all directors before discussing her findings with the independent non-executive directors.
She then provided feedback to the chairman.
During the year, the independent non-executive directors also met regularly with the chairman.
Allan Cooks external commitments changed during the year following his appointment as the lead non-executive director of the UKs Department for Business, Innovation & Skills and Vice-President of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
He also resigned from his position as chairman and director of Finmeccanica UK Limited and Selex ES Ltd. To enable him to carry out his responsibilities as chairman he continues to spend at least three days per week with the Company.
Directors conflicts of interest Each director is required, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, to declare any interests that may give rise to a conflict of interest with the Company on appointment and subsequently as they arise.
Where such a conflict, or potential conflict, arises the Board is empowered under the Companys articles of association to consider and authorise such conflicts as appropriate.
In addition, the Company undertakes an annual review of all authorised conflicts to ensure such authorisation remains appropriate, the last such review having taken place in March 2015.
A more detailed statement regarding how the Board operates is available on the Groups website: www.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 76 Governance Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness Nomination Committee Details of the work of the Nomination Committee can be found in the Nomination Committee report pages 80 to 83.
Performance evaluation The Board recognises the need to ensure its continuing development and the development of individual directors to ensure that its effectiveness is maintained or improved and that it is able to respond to the needs of the Company and to evolving best practice.
This involves an ongoing process of: reflecting on past performance and the implementation of past actions consideration of future training, skill and diversity requirements identification and implementation of new actions to improve performance.
The Board recognises that, as the needs of the Company change and best practice evolves, particular areas require its regular attention to ensure that effectiveness is maintained.
The Board undertakes a rigorous and formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and directors annually.
The Board believes that an external evaluation every three years brings new insight into its processes and performance.
An external evaluation took place in 2012 13 and the next such evaluation will take place in 2015 16.
The 2014 15 evaluation was conducted internally.
The chairman conducted one to one sessions with each member of the Board and the company secretary.
The following areas of its role and performance were explored in depth during the evaluation process: Board role and remit, including meeting frequency and focus diversity of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board, including consideration of diversity of gender, nationality and ethnicity succession planning input and performance of individual directors the support provided by the company secretary any other factors relevant to the Boards effectiveness, such as management of meetings.
The Board received a written report from the chairman, which identified progress made from previous years and areas for further improvement.
This was debated and discussed in detail and a clear action plan for the year ahead was then developed and approved.
The actions identified in the 2014 15 review focus on: information flows to the Board between meetings the continuous development of the business awareness of the non-executive directors opportunities for the Board to meet high performers within the business ensuring the roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee and the Board remain appropriate and consistent with best practice.
The key findings of the 2014 15 performance review will be implemented in the current financial year and progress will be considered as part of the planned externally facilitated performance evaluation in 2015 16.
Commitment During the year all directors, including the independent non-executive directors, committed significant time to the Company, in line with the requirements stated in their letters of appointment and service contracts.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 77 Corporate governance report continued Development, business awareness and induction The chairman regularly reviews training requirements with each director in order to maximise the contribution of the directors.
The company secretary ensures suitable opportunities are identified and communicated to directors.
During the year, the directors have undertaken training on matters including compliance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Model Code, audit tendering and corporate governance.
The Board also receives regular updates from the company secretary on legal, regulatory and governance developments, which highlight any impact they may have on the Board and or the Group.
On joining the Board, directors take part in a formal induction process.
This includes the provision of past Board materials to provide background information on the Group, information on Board processes and governance, site visits and meetings with key employees.
The induction is tailored to each new directors specific needs.
James Cullens participated in a comprehensive induction programme following his appointment to the Company on 1 July 2014.
The planned induction programme for Catherine Bradley is already well advanced and will be reported on in full in the 2016 Annual Report.
Accountability Financial reporting Statements regarding directors responsibilities and the status of the business as a going concern are given in the Directors report pages 68 and 71.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the Groups governance framework and ensuring its adequacy and effectiveness, as set out in the FRCs 2005 Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The changes in this area following publication by the FRC in September 2014 of its Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting have been noted by the Board and its committees.
A review will be undertaken in the forthcoming year to consider possible enhancements to the Groups governance framework.
Our code of conduct, Behaving the Atkins way the Code of Conduct, was launched to all employees in October 2014.
It sets out the standards and behaviours that all employees should consider when making decisions or taking actions.
The Code of Conduct forms part of our corporate governance framework and is an important element of our corporate compliance programme.
The Groups governance framework is illustrated in figure 1.
Figure 1: Governance framework Level and example inputs Framework Assurance Board Board Articles of association Matters reserved to the Board Committee terms of reference Policy statements Values and ethics Group Strategy Quarterly business reviews Code of Group authority matrix conduct Group controls Service delivery process Design principles Business management Region business system BMS Local legislation Industry requirements Budgets Deliver Business Win work People Systems work operations Project controls WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Reporting, audit, risk management Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 78 Governance Corporate governance report continued Our governance framework reflects the devolved and decentralised structure of the Group, which is considered a key part of our ability to deliver services to our clients.
Under this structure the Board has delegated operational responsibility to the CEO, who then delegates authority and control to the regional, Energy and Faithful Gould CEOs who are all members of the SLT and OLT.
Authority is further delegated from them to the managing directors of the principal operations and then downward to business and project managers as appropriate.
This approach is reflected in our governance framework as follows: the policy statements approved by the Board, available on our website: www.
com  , set out clearly and succinctly our vision, commitment and arrangements, including: business conduct, risk management, employment, excellence in delivery, health, safety and security, sustainability and stakeholder communication Group controls set out mandatory activities and standards that are part of the overall Group processes and apply across the Group our Code of Conduct sets behavioural expectations for everyone who works for and represents Atkins, the purpose being to reinforce the controls and underpin the ethics and values that apply across the Group, thereby protecting the reputation of our business and maintaining our professional standing and brand a Group BMS framework incorporates all Group controls and forms the basis of each segments BMS, each of which adds the regional and industry-specific controls it requires to deliver our four key business processes of: win work, deliver work, people and business operations, providing a single source of information for employees that enables them to understand their responsibilities and comply with all Atkins requirements.
The following principles are key to the successful operation of the framework: authority is delegated within clearly prescribed limits under the Groups authority matrix decisions are escalated where either project size or risk profile require a higher level of authority activity and performance are tracked through monthly and quarterly reports effectiveness is audited via internal audit and self-assessment reviews.
Our governance framework is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve stated business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Joint ventures and other investments in which the Company does not have overall control are not covered by the Groups governance framework.
For these joint ventures and other investments, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the joint venture parties or by management but as far as possible we seek compliance with our governance requirements as a minimum.
The Board monitored and reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance framework, including internal controls and risk management, on a continuous basis throughout the year ended 31 March 2015 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Support was provided by the Group Risk Committee, the internal audit function and the Companys independent auditor.
Audit Committee Details of the work of the Audit Committee can be found in the Audit Committee report pages 84 to 89.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration report pages 90 to 120.
Relations with shareholders Engagement with our shareholders is a fundamental part of the Groups corporate governance model.
To this end we seek to establish an early and effective dialogue with shareholders regarding significant changes that affect corporate governance, in addition to ongoing engagement on more routine matters.
Communication regarding the delivery of our strategy is integral to this ongoing dialogue.
The primary means used by the Board for communicating with all Company shareholders are the Annual Report, preliminary statement of annual results, half year results and the AGM.
We also recognise the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively.
An investor relations section is provided on our website: www.
com investors to facilitate communications with institutional and private investors.
This includes material shared with fund managers and analysts at Company meetings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 79 Corporate governance report continued Our shareholders play an important role in the Groups governance and their increasingly active engagement is welcomed.
The investor relations director, alongside the CEO, Group finance director and chairman, provides a focal point for communication with investors and is always keen to engage with, educate and inform potential new investors.
Our approach to investor relations enables us to be proactive in our engagement with both shareholders and non-shareholders.
The CEO and Group finance director present the preliminary statement of annual results and half year results to institutional investors and analysts.
These presentations are also available via webcast and teleconference.
Analyst breakfast events are hosted regularly which include presentations from senior leaders within our business.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 our Energy and North American businesses were the focus of our analyst breakfasts.
The CEO, Group finance director and investor relations director also regularly attend conferences and roadshows to give shareholders, and other potential investors, access to management.
The non-executive directors receive updates on the views of shareholders from the executive directors, following investor meetings.
The Groups broker also provides updates to the Board on shareholder opinions and compiles independent feedback from investor meetings twice a year.
The company secretary brings to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
Shareholders have the opportunity to attend our AGM, where all directors are expected to be available to answer questions.
They are also able to submit questions in writing at any time.
All of the directors in appointment at the time attended our AGM in July 2014 and were available to speak to shareholders.
We intend to call a poll for all resolutions to be considered at the 2015 AGM.
This ensures the Company continues to follow best practice and allows all shareholders, present in person or by proxy, to vote on all resolutions in proportion to their shareholding.
Details of the 2015 AGM are set out in the separate notice of meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allan Cook Chairman 10 June 2015 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
