Board of Directors as at 31 July 2015 Gareth Davis Ian Meakins John Martin Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Appointed on 1 July 2003 and became Chairman on Appointed on 13 July 2009.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Broad international board and general management Extensive operational and financial management Extensive international board and general management experience in brand, retail and wholesale distribution experience: MrMartin has significant experience of cost experience, having served on various company boards management: strategic vision and extensive operational control, driving productivity, finance and systems formanyyears.
transformation programmes, leading business expansion projects, acquisitions, disposals, capital efficiency, tax, Experience Experience treasury and compliance activities.
Mr Davis spent 38 years in the tobacco industry and was Mr Meakins was, until April 2009, Chief Executive of ChiefExecutive of Imperial Tobacco Group plc from its TravelexHoldings Ltd, the international foreign exchange Experience incorporation in 1996 until May 2010. and payments business.
Previously he was Chief Executive Mr Martin, a chartered accountant, joined the Company Officer of Alliance UniChem plc until its merger with Boots asChiefFinancial Officer on 1 April 2010 and assumed Committee membership inJuly 2006 and prior to that, between 2000 and 2004, management responsibility for Wolseley Canada from Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member wasPresident, European Major Markets and Global Supply August2013.
He was previously a partner at Alchemy ofthe Major Announcements Committee.
for Diageo plc, spending over 12years with the company Partners, the private equity group, and prior to that was External appointments ina variety of international management positions.
Chief Financial Officer with Travelex Group and Hays Plc, Chairman of William Hill PLC and DS Smith Plc.
Mr Martin started his career at Committee membership Arthur Andersen before joining The Stationery Office Group, Chairman of the Executive Committee and a member of on its privatisation, where hewas Group Controller.
theMajor Announcements, Treasury and Disclosure Committees.
Committee membership Chairman of the Major Announcements, Disclosure and External appointments Treasury Committees and a member of the Executive Non Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Committee.
John Daly Pilar Lpez Alan Murray Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointed on 21 May 2014.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Considerable international business and executive Strong financial and international experience within global Considerable international operational experience and management experience in a variety of senior leadership businesses.
extensive executive management experience within global roles within major international public companies.
Experience Experience Ms Lpez has been the Country Manager for Microsoft Experience Mr Daly has been a Non Executive Director of Britvic plc Spain since March 2015.
Prior to that she was Global Mr Murray has been a Non Executive Director of since January 2015 and a Non Executive Director of G4S plc Simplification Director for Telefnica S. A from 2014 and Chief Owens-Illinois, Inc. since May 2015, a member of the since June 2015.
He has over three decades of business Financial Officer for Telefnica Europe between 2007 and Supervisory Board of HeidelbergCement AG since 2010 and management experience, including the last 14 years 2014.
She was also Supervisory Board member of andwas previously a Non Executive Director of International with British American Tobacco Plc BAT in a variety of Telefnica Czech Republic AS and Vice Chair of Telefnica Power plc between 2007 and 2011.
Prior to that, he spent senior leadership roles running large international Deutschland Holding AG.
She joined Telefnica in 1999, 19years at Hanson plc and was Group Chief Executive businesses.
He recently stepped down as Chief Operating working in a number of finance and strategy positions between 2002 and 2007.
From 2007 until the end of 2008 Officer of BAT, a position he held for three years, although he across the European and Latin American businesses.
hewas a member of the Management Board of remains a NonExecutive Director of Reynolds American Inc.
Prior to this she worked in a variety of roles at J. P. Morgan, HeidelbergCement AG.
Mr Murray is a qualified chartered a BAT associate company in the USA.
Prior to that, Mr Daly inMadrid, London and NewYork where she became a management accountant.
was BATs Regional Director for Asia Pacific, a position he VicePresident.
Committee membership held for six years based in Hong Kong.
In 1994, Mr Daly Committee membership Senior Independent Director.
Member of the Audit, joined Rothmans Internationals Irish subsidiary P J Carroll & Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Co, spending five years in a variety of leadership positions.
External appointments In 1998, he was appointed as Managing Director of External appointments Non Executive Director of Owens-Illinois, Inc.
Member of Rothmans Japan and South Korea businesses.
Country Manager for Microsoft Spain.
theSupervisory Board of HeidelbergCement AG.
Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
External appointments Non Executive Director of Britvic plc, G4S plc and Reynolds American Inc. Wolseley plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Frank Roach Tessa Bamford Graham Middlemiss 1 Chief Executive Officer, USA Non Executive Director Group Company Secretary 1 Appointed on 16 December 2005.
Key strengths Key strengths Responsibilities Strong business and operational leadership: management Extensive City experience having held senior advisory roles Mr Middlemiss was appointed Company Secretary ofsubsidiaries and joint ventures.
Business development in both the UK and USA across a range of sectors.
He is Secretary and wide ranging sales experience.
tothe Board and all of the Committees of the Board.
Experience Mr Middlemiss, a solicitor, joined the Wolseley Group Experience Ms Bamford was formerly a Director of Cantos in August 2004 as the General Counsel of its UK Mr Roach is Chief Executive Officer of Ferguson Enterprises, Communications, the online communications service business and was Group Deputy Company Secretary Inc. and responsible for all of the Groups businesses based provider, from 2001 to 2011.
Previously she was a Director from November 2012 to July 2015. in the USA.
He first joined Ferguson in 1976 and has held a ofJ Henry Schroder & Co, where she worked for 12 years number of business roles.
In 2005, Mr Roach was appointed ina number of roles between 1986 and 1998.
Prior to that, Committee membership as Senior Vice President of the Wolseley North America MsBamford worked in corporate finance for Barclays fide Secretary to the Board and all Committees of management team, playing a key part in further developing Zoete Wedd.
and expanding the Groups North American businesses Committee membership andjoined the Board in2005.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 1 Richard Shoylekov stepped down from his role as Committee membership Committees.
Company Secretary on 31 July 2015 and Graham Member of the Executive Committee.
External appointments Middlemiss succeeded him with effect from 1 August External appointments Consultant at Spencer Stuart.
Mr Shoylekov is Group General Counsel and his biographical details can be found on page 56.
Darren Shapland Jacky Simmonds Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointed on 1 May 2014.
Key strengths Key strengths Considerable commercial operational and financial Extensive executive remuneration and human resources management experience in major retail businesses.
experience within large international businesses.
Experience Experience Mr Shapland is Chairman of Poundland Group plc and was Ms Simmonds was Group HR Director of TUI Travelplc appointed Chairman of Maplin Electronics Limited in August from2010 until the end of May 2015.
She was also a 2014, Chairman of Topps Tiles Plc in March 2015 and member of the Supervisory Board of TUI Deutschland, Chairman of Notonthehighstreet.
GmbH and a Director of PEAK Adventure Travel Group He retired from his position as a Non Executive Director Limited.
She was previously a divisional HR Director of andas Chairman of the Audit Committee of Ladbrokes plc FirstChoice Holidays PLC until the business was merged on 24 September 2015.
Between 2012 and 2013 he was with Tui AG in 2007 to form TUI Travel PLC.
From 2007 ChiefExecutive Officer of Carpetright plc.
Prior to that, to2010 she was HR Director for TUI UK.
MrShapland was JSainsbury plc Chief Financial Officer Committee membership from 2005 to 2010 and Group Development Director from Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
He was also Chairman of Sainsburys Bank.
Previously, Mr Shapland was Group Finance Director of External appointments Carpetright plc between 2002 and 2005, Finance Director None.
ofSuperdrug Stores plc between 2000 and 2002 and held avariety of positions withthe Burton Group and Arcadia.
Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 25 November 2014.
Member of the Audit Committee until 25 November 2014.
Member of the Remuneration andNominations Committees.
External appointments Chairman of Maplin Electronics Limited, Notonthehighstreet.
com, Poundland Group plc and Topps Tiles Plc.
Wolseley plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
