Corporate governance Nomination Committee report Chairmans introduction The Nomination Committee has worked diligently to keep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on theBoard Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committee is responsible for leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board.
The Nomination Committee has been proactive in discharging these responsibilities, cognisant ofthe importance of succession planning and the need to align Board and Executive leadership skills to the Companys long-term strategy.
The Nomination Committee has worked diligently tokeep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure theorderly evolution of the membership of the Board and to make recommendations to the Boardon composition and balance.
In this report, I explain how the Nomination Committee has discharged itsresponsibilities ingreaterdetail.
Under its terms of reference, the Nomination Committee is required to meet at least twice eachyearat appropriate times in the reporting and auditing cycle.
The Nomination Committee followed the terms and met three times during the year.
Mike Evans Chairman, Nomination Committee 44 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Composition Activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mike Evans and its other members During the year, the Nomination Committee identified the need to strengthen are Alex Chesterman, Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein and Duncan Tatton-Brown.
and diversify the Board and ran a broad search process using Zygos, an David Dutton attends as an observer appointed by DMGT.
The Governance external independent search firm which has no connection with the Company.
Code recommends that a majority of the Nomination Committee be It nominated candidates for the approval of the Board, which led to the non-executive directors, independent in character and judgement and appointment of Vin Murria as a new Independent Non-Executive Director.
free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would Succession planning within the Senior Leadership Team was also considered belikely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
As such, the Board and the Committee was pleased to note the strengthening of that team considers that the Company complies with the Governance Code in this with the hires of a new Chief Technology Officer, Chief Marketing Officer respect.
The Company considers thatthe attendance of an observer and Chief Product Officer.
atCommittee meetings will not prejudice the independence or proper functioning of the Committee.
Diversity Whilst the Company pursues diversity, including gender diversity, throughout Roles and responsibilities the business, and the Board endorses the aspirations of the Davies Review The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities on Women on Boards, the Board is not committing to any specific targets.
relating to the composition and make-up of the Board and any committees The Board now consists of two female Directors 20% of the Board.
It leads the process for Board appointments and makes TheNomination Committee will give due consideration to Board balance recommendations to the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible and diversity when making new appointments to the Board.
for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the size, The Board will engage executive search firms which have signed up to structure and composition of the Board and Committees of the Board, the voluntary code of conduct setting out the seven key principles of best retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors practice to abide by throughout the recruitment process and will continue and Committee members and making appropriate recommendations to follow a policy of appointing talented people at every level to deliver tothe Board on such matters.
It is also responsible for appropriate high performance.
The Board will also ensure that its own development succession planning for both the Board and Senior Management.
inthis area is consistent with its strategic objectives and enhances The full terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate Boardeffectiveness.
Mike Evans Chairman, Nomination Committee Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 45
