Corporate governance Board of Directors The Board now comprises N R N 10Directors with a good diverse balance of backgrounds, skills and experience to meet the challenges of our year ahead, whilst implementing anddriving theGroups Mike Evans Alex Chesterman strategic direction and Non-Executive Chairman Founder and Chief Executive Officer ensuringthat the Group Mike became Chairman of Zoopla Property Alex founded Zoopla Property Group in 2007 Group in 2014.
He has been Chairman of and is the CEO.
Previously, Alex co-founded operates within the principles Hargreaves Lansdown plc since 2009, which LOVEFiLM, Europes leading online DVD rental ofgood corporate governance.
he joined as a Non-Executive Director in 2006. service, which was successfully sold to Amazon.
Mike is a qualified actuary with over 30 years Alexisrecognised as one of the UKs leading experience in the financial services industry.
entrepreneurs and has won numerous awards, Heis also the Senior Independent Director of including the Ernst& Young Entrepreneur of Chesnara plc.
He was formerly a Non-Executive theYear Award, as well as being named by Director of esure Group plc and Chief Operating Property Week as one of the 100 most important Officer at Skandia UK Limited.
He holds a BSc people in the UK residential property industry.
A Member of the Audit Committee in Mathematics from the University of Bristol.
Alex holds anhonours degree in Economics N from LondonUniversity.
Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman A N A R Robin Klein Vin Murria Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Robin became a Director of Zoopla Property Group Vin became a Director of Zoopla Property Group in 2012, having been an angel investor in Zoopla in 2015.
She has 25 years experience of working since its founding in 2007.
He is a founding with private equity-backed and publicly listed partner of The Accelerator Group, a venture companies, focusing on the software sector.
Robin is a serial entrepreneur Until June 2015, Vin was the Chief Executive and an angel investor in a number of the Officer of Advanced Software Group plc, an UKsleading high growth internet businesses.
AIM-listed healthcare and business management Companies he has backed at an early stage software solutions company she founded in include LastMinute.
com, Agent Provocateur, 2008 and exited toVista Equity Partners.
LOVEFiLM, Transferwise, Mind Candy Vinsprevious roles include CEO at CSG Plc, MoshiMonsters, Fizzback, Tweetdeck, which she exited toHellman and Freeman in Graze, FreeAgent, Skimlinks and Moo.
July 2007, andNon-Executive Director at ChimePlc, Concateno Plc, and Greenko Plc.
Named Quoted Company Entrepreneur of the Year 2014 and Woman of the Year in the 2012 Cisco Everywoman Technology Awards, Vinisasuccessful entrepreneur with a strongbackground in technology-based international business.
34 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements A N R A N R Stephen Morana Duncan Tatton-Brown Sherry Coutu Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Stephen joined Zoopla Property Group in Duncan became a Director of Zoopla Property Sherry is an entrepreneur, investor and adviser 2013and is currently its CFO.
He is currently CFO of Ocado to companies, universities and charities.
She as a Non-Executive Director of boohoo plc.
Group plc, which he joined in 2012.
Previously, currently chairs the Financial Strategy Advisory Previously, Stephen spent over a decade at Duncan was CFO of Fitness First plc and prior Group for the University of Cambridge, The Betfair plc, one of the UKs most successful to that he was Group Finance Director of Scale-up Institute and Founders4Schools and internet businesses.
As part of the Betfair Kingfisher plc, one of the worlds largest home is a Non-Executive Director for the London management team since 2002, he became improvement retailers.
He has held senior finance Stock Exchange Group plc and Cambridge CFO in 2006 and then served as interim CEO positions at B&Q plc, Virgin Entertainment University Finance Board.
Prior to Betfair, he held a number of Group and Burton Group plc and was also MBAfrom Harvard, an MSc Economics senior finance positions, including at Sapient, aNon-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial plc.
withDistinction from the London School of the Nasdaq-listed technology innovator.
Duncan holds a masters degree in Engineering Economics and a BA Hons with Distinction Stephen is a qualified Chartered Accountant from Kings College, Cambridge and is a from the University of British Columbia, Canada.
anda member of the INSEAD alumni.
member of the Chartered Institute of In the 2013 New Years Honours Listshe was Management Accountants.
awarded a CBE for services to entrepreneurship by Her Majesty the Queen.
Stephen Daintith David Dutton Grenville Turner Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stephen became a Director of Zoopla Property David became a Director of Zoopla Property Group Grenville became a Director of Zoopla Property Group in 2013.
He is currently Finance Director in 2012.
He serves as Chairman of DMG Group in 2010.
He is a Non-Executive Chairman of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, which he Information, a division of Daily Mail and General of Countrywide plc, which he joined in 2006, and joined in 2011.
Previously, Stephen was COO Trust plc, as well as being a Non-Executive Director is also a Non-Executive Director of the DCLG, and CFO of Dow Jones, a subsidiary of News of a number of other DMGT subsidiaries.
David Non-Executive Director of English National Ballet, Corp.
He has also held several CEO and CFO has been an Executive Director of Daily Mail Chairman of Titlestone Ltd, Chairman of positions in various overseas markets for and General Trust plc since 1997 and advises Bellpenny Ltd and Chairman of Knightsbridge BritishAmerican Tobacco.
Stephen qualified the Group on property matters.
He also serves Student Housing Ltd.
He was formerly asa Chartered Accountant at Price Waterhouse as a Director of UCL Business plc, which he ChiefExecutive, Intelligent Finance and and holds a degree from Leeds University.
David is a successful entrepreneur ChiefExecutive, Business to Business at and holds a BA in Economics from Cambridge HBOSand has previously served as a Director University and an MBA from Harvard University.
of St Jamess Place Capital plc, Sainsburys He is an Honorary Fellow of UCL.
Bank plc and Rightmove plc.
Grenville qualified as a Chartered Banker and holds an MBA from Cranfield Business School.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 35
