Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is wholly committed to upholding high standards of corporate governance andfollowing a rigorous structure for the supervision and management of the Group.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Governance Code, published by the Financial ReportingCouncil in September 2014, applies to financial years beginning on or after 1October2014.
A copy of the Governance Code can be found at www.
The Corporate governance report that follows, which incorporates reports from the Audit and Nomination Committees on pages 40 to 45 together with the Strategic report on pages 1 to 31, the Directors remuneration report on pages 46 to 59 and the Directors report on pages 60 and 61, describes and explains how the Company has applied the relevant provisions and principles of the Governance Code, and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure andTransparency Rules throughout the year.
The Group confirmed that it has applied the principles of the Governance f responsibility for the overall management of the Group: Code with the following exception: f approval of the Groups business strategy and objectives, budgets The Board is currently comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman, and forecasts and any material changes to them: twoExecutive Directors and seven non-Executive Directors, of whom f monitoring the delivery of the Groups business strategy and four are considered to be wholly independent.
The Governance Code objectives and responsibility for any necessary corrective action: recommends that at least half the board of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive f oversight of operations, ensuring adequate systems of internal controls directors determined by the board to be independent in character and and risk management are in place, ensuring maintenance of accounting judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may and other records and ensuring compliance with statutory and affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
As such, the regulatory obligations: Company does not currently fully comply with the requirements of the f approval of any extension of the Groups activities or any decision Governance Code.
We have made progress in this regard with the tocease to operate any material part of the Groups business: appointment of Vin Murria and it remains the Companys intention to move towards compliance with this requirement within a reasonable f approval of any changes relating to the Groups capital structure and period of time.
material changes to the Groups management and control structure: The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, is required to review whether the f approval of the financial statements, Annual Report and Accounts, above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the provisions material contracts and major projects: of the Governance Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules f approval of the dividend policy: andto report if it does not reflect such compliance: no such report hasbeen made.
f ensuring a sound system of internal control and risk management: f approval of any major capital project: The role of the Board The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company and f approval of communications with shareholders and the market: for leading and controlling the Group.
It sets the strategic direction and f determining changes to structure, size and composition of the Board: has complete authority for the management and conduct of the Groups business and development.
The Board is also collectively responsible f determining remuneration policy for the Directors and the Leadership forensuring that a sound system of internal control and risk management and Senior Management Teams and approval of the remuneration including financial, operational and compliance controls and review of ofthe Non-Executive Directors: and the overall effectiveness of the existing systems is in place and for the f approval of all major policies within the Group, including the share dealing, approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and or management anti-bribery and health and safety policies.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval and Secretary, who has responsibility for ensuring compliance with the has delegated other specific responsibilities to its Committees.
Allthe Directors have the right to have their sets out key aspects of the affairs of the Company which the Board does opposition to, or concerns over, any Board decision noted in the minutes.
These have not changed from last year and include: Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties.
36 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Board Committees The Board delegates a set of defined responsibilities and authorities to Each Committee operates with written terms of references, all of which the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees so that it can are available on the Groups corporate website, www.
co. uk, and devote its time efficiently and resourcefully to any relevant matters isolated reports for each Committee are included in this Annual Report reserved for the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Within the Company, there is a clear separation between the individual responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, Alex Chesterman, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mike Evans.
On behalf of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing the Boards strategy, the day-to-day management of the Group and leading the Executive Team.
On the other hand, the Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership of the Board, having regard for the interests of all stakeholders and promoting high standards of corporate governance.
The two roles are different and distinct from one another.
A clear division of accountability and responsibility between the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman ensures that no single position holds unrestricted powers of decision making.
These divisions have been established by the Board and are set out in writing, including the following: The role of the Chairman The role of the Chief Executive Officer f To run the Board effectively by ensuring meetings are held with f To manage the Group on a day-to-day basis within the appropriate frequency: authority delegated by the Board: f To ensure the frequency and depth of evaluation of the f To ensure, with the Executive Team, that Board decisions performance of the Board and its Committees are in areimplemented effectively: compliance with best practice: f To develop and propose Group strategy, annual plans and f To chair the Nomination Committee to lead the process for commercial objectives to the Board: Board appointments and identify and recommend candidates f To advise and make recommendations in respect of Board for the approval of the Board: nominations and succession planning: f To promote a culture of openness and debate, in particular by f To keep the Chairman informed of all important matters: and facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors, and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and f To make recommendations on remuneration policies, Executive Non-Executive Directors: remuneration and terms of employment for senior employees.
f To hold meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors or Senior Management present: and f To ensure that shareholders views are communicated totheBoard as a whole so that all Directors develop anunderstanding of their views.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 37 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued The role of the Senior Independent Director are at arms length and on normal commercial terms, and that the goodwill, The appointment of an Independent Non-Executive Director to the role reputation and commercial interests of the Company are maintained.
ofSenior Independent Director SID is recommended by the Governance Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, DMGT can appoint Code for companies with a premium listing on the Official List of the twoDirectors providing it holds more than 25% of the votes exercisable London Stock Exchange Official List.
The SID should provide a at general meetings of the Company, and one Director providing it holds sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the more than 10% of those votes.
Duncan Tatton-Brown has remained asthe SID of the Board and is available to shareholders if they have The Relationship Agreement will remain in force for so long as a the concerns which the normal channels through the Chairman, CEO or shares of the Company are listed on the premium listing segment of the other Executive Directors have failed to resolve or are inappropriate.
Official List and b DMGT or any of its associates together are entitled toexercise or to control the exercise of 10% or more of the votes which Independence of Non-Executive Directors are generally exercisable at general meetings of the Company.
The two The Governance Code sets out the circumstances that should be relevant Directors appointed by DMGT are David Dutton and Stephen Daintith.
to the Board in determining whether each Non-Executive Director is The Company confirms that the terms of the Relationship Agreement independent.
The Board has concluded that Duncan Tatton-Brown, have been fully complied with during the year.
Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein and Vin Murria were Independent Directors Grenville Turners current role as Chairman of the Board of Countrywide plc, throughout the period.
Mike Evans was independent on appointment a customer and major shareholder of the Group, means that, at present, asChairman.
we do not deem him to be independent.
Since the IPO in June 2014, the Company has had a relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement in place with its principal shareholder, DMGT.
Length of appointments The main purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for a period of up to three Company and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their business years, extendable by no more than two additional three year periods.
independently of DMGT, that transactions and relationships with DMGT Information, meetings and attendance The Board met eight times last year to review the operational performance of the Company.
At these meetings, the Board reviewed the Companys long and short-term strategic direction and financial plans and monitored the Companys performance against the agreed strategy and business plan.
Due to the acquisition of uSwitch, the Board met more often than the anticipated number of times to make certain decisions relating to the transaction for the year.
In addition, the Board delegated authority to a Steering Committee dedicated to the uSwitch acquisition.
This Steering Committee met five times and worked closely with the Board to monitor and to execute the transaction effectively.
Date of Audit Remuneration Nomination Steering 1 appointment Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 8 4 5 3 5 Alex Chesterman 23 April 2014 8 8 3 3 5 5 Stephen Morana 23 April 2014 8 8 5 5 Mike Evans 1 May 2014 8 8 5 5 3 3 5 5 Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 May 2014 8 8 4 4 5 5 3 3 Sherry Coutu 1 May 2014 6 8 3 4 5 5 2 3 Robin Klein 1 May 2014 7 8 3 4 3 4 3 3 Grenville Turner 21 May 2014 7 8 David Dutton 21 May 2014 8 8 5 5 3 3 Stephen Daintith 21 May 2014 8 8 4 4 5 5 Vin Murria 1 July 2015 2 2 1 1 1 The Board also passed additional written resolutions in relation to Vin Murrias appointment, the uSwitch transaction and the new Value Creation Plan.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Prior to each scheduled Board meeting, a pack is circulated in respect of the corresponding financial period, which includes an update on key performance targets, trading performance against budget and detailed financial data and analysis.
Board packs are distributed five working days prior to each meeting in accordance with the terms of reference to provide sufficient time for the Directors to review their papers in advance.
If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting for any reason, they nonetheless receive the relevant papers and are consulted prior to the meeting and their views are made known to the other Directors.
38 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Conflicts of interests Election of Directors The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations for The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each Director.
or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so appointed by the All Directors are required to ensure that they keep these duties under review Board shall hold office only until the next following AGM and shall then be and to inform the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any change eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Companys next AGM will be held on 25 February 2016.
In accordance The Companys conflict of interest procedures are reflected in its Articles with the Governance Code, Vin Murria, who was appointed by the Board of Association Articles.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Articles on 1 July 2015, will be offering herself for election at the AGM to be held allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, at the Companys head office, full details of which are set out in the notice where appropriate.
The decision to authorise a conflict can only be made of meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
The Board considers conflicts or potential As noted above, following the formal internal evaluation process of the conflicts at each Board meeting.
effectiveness of the Board, the Board is satisfied that each Director remains The Articles require the Company to indemnify its officers, including officers competent to discharge his her responsibilities as a member of the Board.
of wholly owned subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from the conduct ofthe Groups business, to the extent permitted by law.
The Group has External appointments therefore purchased directors and officers liability insurance during At the time of his appointment as Chairman it was noted that Mike Evans theyear.
was Chairman of Hargreaves Lansdown plc but the view was taken that this would not adversely impact his ability to carry out his role.
Development The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments provided that The Non-Executive Directors have all met key members of Senior such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to perform Management and advisers to the Company, many of whom have given their duties as Executive Directors of the Company.
presentations to the Board and Committee members during various Board and Committee meetings, in order to familiarise themselves with Alex Chesterman is currently a Director of Devalink Limited, Hoopla Limited the Group.
During the year, the Chairman reviewed and agreed with each and Barcote Park Management Limited.
Stephen Morana is currently a Non-Executive Director their individual training and development needs.
These appointments are not In addition, under the guidance of the Chairman, the Company Secretary deemed to adversely impact the Directors ability to carry out their roles.
established a formal induction training process for new Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors appointment letters anticipate a time All new Directors will receive an induction briefing from the Company commitment of 10 days per year, recognising that there is always the Secretary on their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a publicly possibility of an additional time commitment and ad hoc matters arising quoted company.
from time to time, particularly when the Company is undergoing a period of increased activity.
The average time commitment inevitably increases Board evaluation where a Non-Executive Director assumes additional responsibilities The Board carried out its first review of its effectiveness and its various suchas being appointed to a Board Committee.
This review, which covered the period from the IPO to the end of the current financial year, was facilitated by the Chairman and Relations with shareholders involved individual discussions with each of the Directors and the As part of the preparation for the acquisition of uSwitch, the Board met Company Secretary.
The consensus was that the Board, which was alarge number of investors.
The meetings involved the Chief Executive newly formed at the time of the IPO, has performed effectively.
The Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other Senior Management.
creation of a sub-committee during the course of the uSwitch transaction As part of its investor relations programme, the Executive has maintained was particularly successful.
The Board has agreed an action plan for the an active dialogue with its key stakeholders, including institutional investors, following year which includes a commitment to run a well planned to discuss issues relating to the performance of the Group including Strategy Day in March 2016, for the Non-Executive Directors to spend strategy and new developments.
The Non-Executive Directors are more time in the business outside of formal Board time and to improve available to discuss any matter stakeholders might wish to raise.
Investor relations activity and a review of the share register form an active The Governance Code provides that evaluation of the Board of FTSE 350 part of the Boards agenda.
Reports from analysts and brokers are circulated companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have attended, Therefore, the Chairman will be suggesting an equivalent review to be and are available to attend, investor relations meetings and have the externally facilitated either in the next financial year or the year after that.
ability to request meetings with investors or analysts independent of the The Senior Independent Director, Duncan Tatton-Brown, together with Groups Management, if required.
the Independent Non-Executive Directors, evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the Chairman consulted with a significant number of larger shareholders prior to the approval ofthe new Value Creation Plan for the CEO at the General Meeting on1October 2015.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 39
