Corporate governance Audit Committee report Chairmans introduction The Group has operating policies and controls in place covering a range of issues Dear Shareholder Welcome to the Audit Committee report for the year.
In this report, I explain how the Audit Committee has discharged its responsibilities, with detailed reference to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Governance Code toaddress significant reporting issues for the financial statements and to explain how the AuditCommittee assessed external audit effectiveness and safeguards in relation to the provisionofnon-audit services by the Companys auditor.
Under the Audit Committees terms of reference, the Audit Committees Other than the Boards resolution to appoint Vin Murria, an Independent role is to assist the Boardinfulfilling its financial supervision and audit Non-Executive Director, to the Audit Committee on 1 July 2015, there responsibilities, which include: were no other changes to the composition of the Audit Committee from last year.
Each member is considered to possess up-to-date and f monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements, including appropriate financial experience and continues to remain independent.
its annual and half-yearly reports, trading updates, any preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcements relating to its Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required to meet financial performance: atleast three times in each year at appropriate times in the reporting andauditing cycle.
The Audit Committee actually held four meetings f reviewing significant financial returns to regulators and any significant during the year.
financial information contained in other documents: f considering annually whether there should be an internal audit function and making a recommendation to the Board: f considering and making recommendations to the Board on the Duncan Tatton-Brown appointment, re-appointment, resignation or removal of the Groups Chairman, Audit Committee external auditor, to be put to shareholders for approval: f overseeing the selection process for and relationship with external auditors: and f reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems.
40 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Composition On 8 July 2015, the Audit Committee met to consider the integration The Audit Committee is chaired by Duncan Tatton-Brown and its other planfor the uSwitch business following the completion of the uSwitch members are currently Robin Klein, Sherry Coutu and Vin Murria.
transaction, a compliance update, the audit plan for 2015 and the Stephen Daintith attends as an observer appointed by DMGT.
effectiveness review of the external auditor.
The Governance Code recommends that all members of the Audit Committee On 19 November 2015 and at a subsequent meeting on 1 December 2015, are Non-Executive Directors, independent in character and judgement and the Audit Committee reviewed and approved forconsideration by the free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be Board the financial results for the financial year ended 30 September 2015. likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement and that one such member As part of that review process, the members of the Audit Committee reviewed has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that, the Annual Report, the adequacy of the disclosure with respect to reporting by virtue of his current and former executive and non-executive roles, on a going concern basis and the viability statement, and whether the details of which are set out on page 35, Duncan Tatton-Brown possesses Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
recent and relevant financial experience and the Company complies with This additional review by the Audit Committee, supplemented by advice the requirements of the Governance Code in this respect.
The Company received from external advisers during the drafting process, assisted the further considers that the attendance of an observer at Committee meetings Board in determining that the report is fair, balanced and understandable at will not prejudice the independence or proper functioning of the Committee.
the time that it is approved.
The Committee considered the appropriateness The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend of preparing the accounts on a going concern basis, including consideration meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation, as does Deloitte LLP, of forecast plans and supporting assumptions, and concluded that the theCompanys auditor, and other members of Management or the Companys financial position was such that it continued to be appropriate Boardasappropriate.
for accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis.
The Companys viability statement can be found on page 19.
Roles and responsibilities The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements with regard to financial reporting, controls, internal audit including considering The Committee, together with the Executive Directors and the Groups annually whether there should be an internal audit function and external external auditor, considered the following significant matters in relation audit including reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups annual tothe financial statements and how these were addressed.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves Revenue recognition the annual audit plan and ensures that it is consistent with the scope of The Groups revenue recognition is limited in complexity.
For the Property the audit engagement, reviews and monitors the extent of the non-audit Services division the majority of revenue relates to recurring subscriptions work undertaken by the external auditor, advises on the appointment of which are predictable in nature and invoiced monthly.
However, the division the external auditor, oversees the Groups relationship with its external operates a large volume of agreements, with varying terms, which may auditor and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process.
include differences in the timing of the billing of subscription fees and the In relation to the Groups internal controls, the Audit Committee takes actual subscription period.
Revenue recognition for the Comparison responsibility for keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness Services division is recognised at the point at which a transaction on the ofthe Groups internal financial controls and internal control and risk Groups website is completed.
An element of Management judgement is management systems.
required in calculating a revenue accrual which estimates the number of successful switches in the period between the last date of billing and the The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report latest provider data being made available.
For both divisions there is a risk and Accounts and the half-yearly reports remains with the Board.
The that revenues may not be recorded in the correct accounting period.
Audit Committee will give due consideration to laws and regulations, Management has discussed the composition and the recognition principles theprovisions of the Governance Code and the requirements of the of each revenue stream and the controls thereon with the Committee during the Listing Rules.
The Committee is satisfied that no material issues have been identified The Audit Committee reviews the content of the Annual Report and or arisen.
Furthermore, revenue recognition was an area of focus for the Accounts and advises the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, Groups external auditor during the audit.
The external auditor reported on balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary their work auditing the Groups revenue streams.
This work included forshareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model reviewing streams in the Property Services division on a month-by-month and strategy.
basis for anomalies and detailed testing over the revenue balance.
For revenue streams in the Comparison Services division, the auditors work The full Audit Committee terms of reference are available on the was particularly focused on the judgemental year end revenue accrual Companys corporate website at www.
where historical experience is used as a basis for estimating the likely value of switches to be confirmed by third parties.
Activities of the Audit Committee At each Audit Committee meeting throughout the year, the Audit Committee The acquisition of uSwitch considered updates to its risk management procedures to comply with On 1 June 2015 the Group completed its acquisition of uSwitch.
Theprocess ofdetermining the fair value of assets and liabilities acquiredis inherently judgemental and there is a risk that inappropriate The Audit Committee met on 20 October 2014 to consider the Companys methodologies or assumptions could lead to the valuation of acquired full year audit plan.
In November 2014, the Committee discussed the full intangibles, goodwill orthe fair value of other net assets acquired year results for 2014 as well as an internal audit and internal fraud update.
In May 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed the Companys half year results and the financial position and prospects procedure review of uSwitch in anticipation of the completion of the uSwitch acquisition.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 41 Corporate governance Audit Committee report continued Significant issues considered in relation to the financial Independence safeguards statementscontinued In accordance with proper standards, external auditors are required The acquisition of uSwitch continued toadhere to a rotation policy whereby the audit engagement partner TheCommitteehas reviewed the disclosure in the financial statements isrotated after five years.
The current audit engagement partner was inrelation to the acquisition and has discussed the accounting for the appointed in 2012 but, due to his previous role as the audit engagement transaction and the valuation of intangibles and other assets with both partner for certain of the Companys significant operations, can serve Management and the Groups external auditor.
The Committee is satisfied asthe audit engagement partner for only two years after the Group that the judgements and estimates made by Management are appropriate haslisted.
Therefore, our current external auditor, Deloitte LLP, will be and that these assumptions have been subject to sufficient review by the introducing the new engagement partner during the course of next year.
The Audit Committee notes that FTSE 250 companies must put the The acquisition also included a performance related earn-out of up auditout to tender at least every 10 years.
To avoid significant disruption to30 million.
The process of determining the fair value of contingent the Financial Reporting Council has provided details of transitional consideration was subject to Managements best estimate of the final arrangements which would mean that as Deloitte became the auditor payout at the date of acquisition.
Based on the performance of the after 2000 we would not need to undertake a tender review until 2023. uSwitch business for the period from 1 January 2015 to 30 November 2015 The Audit Committee has authority to take independent advice as it the Committee is comfortable that Managements expectation that the deems appropriate in order to resolve issues on auditor independence.
earn-out will pay out in full is reasonable and therefore the Groups liability No such advice has been required to date.
on the consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 September 2015 is appropriate.
The external auditor is also required periodically to assess whether, initsprofessional opinion, it is independent and those views are shared Assessment of effectiveness of the external audit process with the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation Independence assessment by the Audit Committee and remains in constant communication with members of theAudit Based on the fact that the audit engagement partner rotation policy has Committee, as well as the Executive Directors and other members been complied with, the Audit Committee is satisfied that the independence oftheBoard as appropriate.
of the external auditor is not impaired.
Furthermore, the level of fees paid for non-audit services does not jeopardise its independence.
Audit and The Audit Committee also makes recommendations to the Board, for it to non-audit fees are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.
put to the shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meetings, in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the The Audit Committee believes sufficient and appropriate safeguards were remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
As part in place for this work, including the use of a different lead engagement partner, ofthis responsibility, the Audit Committee approved the audit plan for the and the external auditor remained independent throughout the period.
year ended 30 September 2015 and reviewed the auditors findings and The Committee has assessed the performance and independence of the Management representation letters.
Prior to recommending the appointment external auditor and recommended to the Board the re-appointment of of Deloitte at the forthcoming AGM to the Board, the Audit Committee Deloitte LLP as auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2016. reviewed the external audit process, the performance of the auditor and its ongoing independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account Internal audit input from Management, responses to questions from the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that it is not and the audit findings reported to the Committee.
currently necessary to appoint an internal audit function but rather to Based on this review, the Audit Committee concluded that the external focus on specific areas with ad hoc reviews, an example being cyber audit process had been run efficiently and that Deloitte LLP has remained security.
The Audit Committee currently works closely with its external effective in its role as external auditor.
auditor to review its internal audit processes and will review the need foran internal audit function on an ongoing basis.
Approach to appointing the external auditor and how objectivity The Audit Committee based its decision on several factors including and independence are safeguarded relative to non-audit services arelatively clear business model with a relatively simple Group structure At the date of the 2014 Annual Report, some Audit Committee policies and a single country focus, an open and accountable culture with clear had not yet been developed as the Audit Committee was only constituted authority limits and the assurance gained from both Management reports towards the end of the 2014 financial year.
However, it was the Boards and reports provided by the external auditor with regard to internal intention to adopt policies covering both of the following topics: controls and risk management.
f a policy on the independence of the external auditor consistent with the ethical standards published by the Audit Practices Board: and f a policy on the engagement of the external auditor for the provision of non-audit services.
These Audit Committee policies have now been developed.
42 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Internal control and risk management As part of the uSwitch acquisition the Group has integrated the uSwitch The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal controls forthe financial reporting process into the Groups reporting process.
This phase Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with theFRC of integration was undertaken immediately following completion of the Internal Control: Guidance to Directors publication, it carries out a review uSwitch acquisition and ensures that Group management accounts of its suitability and effectiveness at least annually, covering all material aregenerated in a timely manner.
There have been no changes in the controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Companys internal control during the financial year under review that management systems.
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, theCompanys control over financial reporting.
This year, the Group carried out a risk management workshop with keymembers of Management and the Leadership Team.
This involved The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, is satisfied that an rigorous scrutiny over a list of risks to the Group and identifying the effective system of internal controls and risk management is in place principal risks to the business.
The relevant key individuals contributed which enables the Company to identify, evaluate and manage key risks tothe discussions involving these risks and the extensive feedback and which accords with the guidance provided by the FRC Internal Control: collected from the workshop was provided to the Audit Committee Guidance to Directors publication.
These processes have been in place forconsideration and review.
since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of theaccounts.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage and diminish rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Further details of risk management frameworks and specific material risks andcan only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against and uncertainties facing the business can be found on pages 16 to 19. material misstatement or loss.
Whistleblowing The Group has operating policies and controls in place covering a range The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy, the Speak-Up Policy, of issues including financial reporting, capital expenditure, business continuity which encourages employees to report any malpractice or illegal acts and information technology and appropriate employee policies.
These oromissions or matters of similar concern by other employees or policies are designed to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial formeremployees, contractors, suppliers or advisers using a prescribed reporting and govern the preparation of financial statements.
The policy facilitates the reporting of any ethical is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and wrongdoing, malpractice or suspicion which may constitute ethical risk management and discharges its duties in this area by: wrongdoing or malpractice.
Examples include bribery, corruption, fraud, f holding regular Board meetings to consider the matters reserved dishonesty and illegal practices which may endanger employees or third forits consideration: parties.
There have been no instances of whistleblowing during the year under review.
f receiving regular Management reports which provide an assessment of key risks and controls: Control environment f scheduling annual Board reviews of strategy including reviews of the The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral material risks and uncertainties facing the business: values and professionalism in all its activities.
The Group has policies inplace for: f ensuring there is a clear organisational structure with defined responsibilities and levels of authority: f anti-bribery and corruption: f ensuring there are documented policies and procedures in place: and f dealing with third parties: and f scheduling regular Board reviews of financial budgets, forecasts f gifts and entertainment.
andcovenants with performance reported to the Board monthly.
Accountability In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the Audit The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable Committee carries out the following duties: assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
The f review the risk register compiled and maintained by Management responsibilities of the Directors and the external auditor are set out within the Group and question and challenge where necessary: onpages 62 and 65.
As set out in the Directors report, the Directors consider the Companys business to be a going concern.
The Companys f regularly review the system of financial and accounting controls: and viability statement can be found on page 19. f report to the Board on the risk and control culture within the Group.
In respect of the Groups financial reporting, the finance department isresponsible for preparing the Group financial statements using a wellestablished consolidation process and ensuring that accounting Duncan Tatton-Brown policies are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Chairman, Audit Committee Standards.
All financial information published by the Group is subject torecommendation by the Audit Committee to the Board for approval.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 43
