The Strategic Report 11 Delivering our strategy The marketing industry is also acknowledging our brand Help 10m people overcome social disadvantage through the transformation.
For example, BT Sport was the outright winner benefits our products and services can bring.
in the Marketing Societys 2014 Brand Revitalisation and Brand Help 5m children to receive better teaching in computing skills.
Help generate more than 1bn for good causes, using our people, their skills and our technology, whilst inspiring twoPartnerships continue to be an important part of the way we build thirds ofourpeople to volunteer.
our reputation and show our support for good causes.
Enable customers to reduce their carbon emissions by at least We were the founding partner of the International Festival for three times the end-to-end carbon impact of our business.
Business which launched in Liverpool in June.
A total of 68,600 Creating a connected society delegates from 92 countries attended events over the 50-day Digital inclusion is a key part of bringing our purpose to life.
helping people on low incomes, with disabilities or who are elderly, We were the first commercial partner of the British Paralympic to get online.
An example of this is BT Basic, a product created Association when it was founded in 1989.
To celebrate its 25th specifically for a low income group.
This low-cost product, combined anniversary we provided a grant to support grassroots disability with our digital skills programme Get IT Together, helps those sports clubs across the UK.
We continue to support British individuals to make the most of being online.
Paralympians on their journey to the Rio 2016 Paralympic Games.
We share the increasing public concern about protecting children We were also an official supporter of the Invictus Games, an online.
Through The Right Click: Internet Safety Matters, our international sporting event for wounded, injured or sick partnership with UNICEF UK, we are delivering 600 online safety servicemen and women.
This was held in London in September workshops across the UK, with, BT volunteers providing parents and 2014 and involved over 400 competitors from 13 nations.
children with practical advice to keep them safe online.
We have also invested in tools and resources to educate children and their families Ingenious about staying safe while online.
In 2014, we ran a programme of events under the theme of Ingenious.
This included events at high profile locations such as BT Parental Controls is our free, network-based filter that lets the BT Tower and Adastral Park.
We launched the UKs first National families control internet access.
In 2014 15 we contacted all our BT Inventors Day in December.
The event was designed to celebrate Broadband customers to raise awareness of this service.
the UKs rich heritage of invention and inspire the next generation Developing a culture of tech literacy of creative thinkers.
It was also a showcase of BTs long history of Increasingly every aspect of modern life is underpinned by innovation.
But, even though young people grow up surrounded We also became the lead principal sponsor of the new Information by technology, many of them do not understand the basic concepts Age gallery at the Science Museum in London.
The gallery explores of how it works.
This could leave them unable to fully participate how the modern connected world was created through different in society.
We want to help build a culture of tech literacy for the technology networks such as radio and television broadcasting, the nation.
We want to inspire young people to move from simply being web and mobile communications.
technology consumers to embracing the role technology can play in their lives, being confident with computational thinking, and aware of the way technology and data underpins our social infrastructure.
STAKEHOLDERS AND RELATIONSHIPS Other than our people, our main stakeholders are: our customers: For more information on how we deliver both societal and business communities: BT Group plcs shareholders: lenders: our pension benefits, please refer to page 53, where we have outlined our schemes: suppliers: government: and regulatory authorities.
Our customers Supporting charities and communities We sell fixed-voice, broadband, mobile and TV products and services Our charity partners help millions of people in the UK and worldwide.
For small and medium-sized enterprises, as Our communications technology can help them raise money quickly well as larger businesses in the UK, we offer fixed-voice, broadband, and function more efficiently, so they can focus on what they do mobility, networking and IT services.
In both the UK and globally we best.
offer managed networked IT services to multinational corporations, MyDonate is our commission-free online giving platform which domestic businesses and public sector organisations.
underpins our fundraising and community support.
We have supported various fundraising activities this year including Cancer Some of our customers are also our competitors.
This is because UKs Stand Up 2 Cancer telethon, Children in Need and Red Nose Day.
we sell wholesale products and services to other communications We have also supported Disasters Emergency Committee appeals providers in the UK and overseas.
for Syria, the Philippines, Gaza and the Ebola Crisis all using our You can read about our customers and the services we provide them MyDonate fundraising platform.
In total, all these activities raised in our lines of business section from page 29.
Communities and society as a whole We do not just support large scale telethons, but also smaller The investments we make will play a big part in benefiting society charities and individual fundraisers too with over 21m being and the environment, proving that it is possible to do good and raised using MyDonate to support them.
We are investing in new create business value at the same time.
technologies and extending the reach of MyDonate, as it is key to helping us deliver our 1bn 2020 goal.
Last year, we talked about our 2020 ambitions in three focus areas of creating a connected society, supporting charities and The Supporters Club is our collaboration with our long-standing communities and delivering environmental benefits.
This year we charity partner, Comic Relief.
It aims to build a better world by have introduced two additional areas developing a culture of tech bringing people together through sport.
We provide grants to literacy and inclusive growth.
Our 2020 ambitions are now: support charities and community sport foundations, to use sport as a vehicle for change in young peoples lives.
BT Sport customers can 9 out of 10 people in the UK will have access to fibre-based make monthly donations of 1, 3 or 5 through their bill.
02a 802639 Report of the Directors Strategy p02-13.
indd 11 5 19 2015 11:27:56 AM 12 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Increasing our customers sense of connection with The Supporters The mix of our suppliers continues to evolve as we move into new Club, and increasing donations, was a key priority in the year.
markets, such as televised sport and mobility.
To encourage more people to get involved, we included short Our approach to procurement films as part of our coverage of live sporting events which showed We have around 320 people in 26 countries working with suppliers The Supporters Club is making a difference.
Customer donations to deliver our procurement strategy.
have raised 1.8m this year, with over 26 projects currently being funded, both in the UK and around the world.
We want to get the most from our suppliers especially from their diversity, skills and innovation.
Delivering environmental benefits We serve some of the biggest companies in the world, so helping As part of our cost transformation programmes, we have them reduce carbon emissions can have a global impact.
Many of concentrated on making the most of our relationships with our them are sustainability leaders themselves.
And more and more of largest suppliers to get even better value.
our customers want to know how our products can contribute to This year we introduced our Purchase Order intercept programme.
This involves reviewing all purchase orders to make sure that we are We lead by example, as we are reducing our own environmental optimising our spend across BT.
The new Central Business Services impact and minimising waste, and are working with our suppliers centre see page 4 is supporting our procurement division and is to help them do the same.
We have an integrated approach to growing in numbers to support this programme.
cost reduction and carbon abatement that many of our solutions We are continuing to review our supply base and have deactivated directly reduce our customers carbon emissions, save money and around 3,300 suppliers from our procurement systems in the use fewer resources.
For example, our conferencing facilities reduce last 12 months.
Our supply base now includes new categories of the need for travel.
suppliers to support our new markets.
BT Group plcs shareholders During the year we launched the Procurement Profession, part of BT Group plc has around 900,000 separate shareholders.
Over the Academy see page 7.
This is helping to improve the skills of 20% of them have held shares since BT was privatised 30 years our people.
Our ambition is to have all of our buyers accredited and ago.
As well as the Annual Report and Annual General Meeting, licensed.
And for a few of our expert practitioners to be recognised BT Group plc keeps its shareholders up to date with how we are externally as fellows of the Chartered Institute of Procurement and doing through regular mailings.
These often include offers on our Supply CIPS.
Currently we have two practitioners who are fellows products and services that are only available to shareholders.
website includes press releases, newsletters, presentations and webcasts that can also keep shareholders informed.
Choosing our suppliers It is important to us that we know who we are doing business with The majority of BT Group plcs shares are held by institutional and who is acting on our behalf.
There is an extensive investor relations programme aimed at keeping existing shareholders informed and attracting new ones.
choose suppliers using an established set of principles which This programme includes: seeks to make sure both we and the supplier act ethically and responsibly: reporting quarterly results, accompanied by a conference call or check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered presentation from senior management: and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible regular teach-ins on key topics for example this year we way: and covered regulation and cost transformation : and measure factors such as a suppliers energy use, environmental meetings and conference calls with investors both in the UK and impact and labour standards.
You can find out more at www.
com In 2014 15, management held 369 meetings or events with institutional investors.
This compares with 421 in 2013 14 and Labour standards in our supply chain 259in 2012 13.
We want our suppliers employees to experience working conditions that meet the standards we have developed.
We send our suppliers BT was voted the best company for investor relations in England in an ethical standards questionnaire.
Based on their responses, we the Extel Survey 2014.
Across Europe, we were voted the second follow up with any suppliers identified as high or medium risk.
This best in the telecommunications sector.
year we met 96% of our target to achieve 100% follow-up within Our lenders three months.
Our relationships with our lenders, mainly banking institutions and We also visit supplier sites to make sure they meet our standards.
bond holders, play an important role in our treasury and funding This year we visited 47 sites 2013 14: 54 sites around the world.
These relationships are vital for funding the business and meeting our liquidity requirements.
To comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and our Securities and Exchange Commission SEC obligations, we asked certain suppliers whether Our pension schemes their products contain certain minerals which may have been We operate defined benefit and defined contribution pension sourced from conflict areas such as the Democratic Republic of the schemes.
The largest is the BT Pension Scheme BTPS which has Congo.
In June 2014 we filed the required report covering 2013 306,500 members.
You can read more about it on page 51. with the SEC which described our due diligence and reflected the responses we received.
We will file the report for 2014 in Our suppliers June 2015.
Our suppliers from across the world play a vital role in helping us to provide our products and services and deliver our strategy.
We spent 9.4bn with our suppliers this year 2013 14: 9.8bn.
The top 100 represent around 61% of our annual spend.
indd 12 5 19 2015 11:27:57 AM The Strategic Report 13 Delivering our strategy In last years Annual Report we said that BT Group plc would paying our suppliers carry out a Board-level review of our human rights policy and This year the average number of days between invoice date and further develop our compliance framework.
This review has now supplier payment was 60 days 2013 14: 62 days.
We assessed our operations in the UK against Suppliers can choose to use the BT Supplier Finance scheme.
It offers stakeholder expectations on how businesses should respect human contracted suppliers the chance to be paid early, which reduces their rights.
We have taken advice from both a leading law firm and a financing costs.
We introduced it in September 2013 and it is now global, non-profit human rights consultancy.
one of the largest supplier finance schemes in the UK, supporting over 1.2bn of spend annually.
The review showed that we have strong processes to manage human rights impacts arising with our employees, such as highly developed You can find out more about the BT Supplier Finance scheme at diversity and wellbeing measures.
We also have a clear approach www.
com Payment SupplierFinance to freedom of expression, based on our belief that our customers should have the choice, whenever possible, to access the services It is particularly attractive for SMEs who make up around 50% and content they want.
The review did identify opportunities to of our supply base and it supports UK Government initiatives to strengthen our human rights policy and governance, and to be more encourage small business growth.
We also follow the Better Payment transparent about our operations and interactions with government.
Practice Code set up by the Government in partnership with business organisations across the UK.
The BT Group plc Operating Committee and Board considered You can find out more about the Better Payment Practice Code at the recommendations and have approved an implementation www.
co. uk programme to further enhance our approach to human rights.
This programme will begin later in 2015.
A human rights steering group Human rights has been established to achieve this.
It is sponsored by the BT Group As a provider of communications services across the world, we could plc Operating Committee and will have broad representation across impact the human rights of our employees, workers in our supply our key functions and lines of business.
More information can be chain, customers and communities in a number of different ways.
com deliveringourpurpose Our statement of business practice, The Way We Work, sets out our commitment to respecting human rights.
It gives employees, suppliers and anyone working on behalf of BT guidance on how we expect them to behave.
We believe the areas that could be most affected by our business are the human rights to privacy and freedom of expression.
Our policies on privacy, security, anti-corruption and bribery, diversity, inclusion, health, safety, wellbeing, conflict minerals and sourcing with human dignity help mitigate risks in these and other relevant areas.
indb 13 5 19 2015 1:07:17 AM 14 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Our relationship with HM Government The Communications Act and Ofcom We are the largest supplier of networked IT services to the UK public The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out sector.
We work with more than 1,300 organisations across central, how electronic communication and broadcasting services should be local and devolved government, healthcare, police and defence regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions set by the European to provide some of the UKs most vital services.
run N3, the National health Services secure national network.
We Ofcoms main duties are: provide telecommunications services to the Ministry of Defence.
And we have recently started working with the Welsh Government to to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications operate the Wales-wide public sector broadband network and with matters: and Devon and Cornwall Police to provide their IT services.
to further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where appropriate by promoting competition.
We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain services to Government.
For example, under the Communications Under the powers of the Communications Act, Ofcom sets conditions Act, we and others can be required to provide or restore services that CPs must comply with.
Some conditions, known as General during disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 also says that Conditions, apply to all CPs.
These mainly deal with protecting the Government can impose obligations on us and others at times consumers general access and interconnection, planning for of emergency or in connection with civil contingency planning.
The emergencies, providing information to Ofcom and allocating and Secretary of State can also require us to take certain actions in the transferring phone numbers.
Other conditions apply to certain interests of national security and international relations.
companies that are universal service providers or that Ofcom has decided have SMP in a particular market.
regulation We are the designated universal service provider for the UK except In our markets in the UK and around the world, communications and for the hull area where it is KCOM Group and so we have certain TV services are regulated by governmental and non-governmental obligations.
The main one is to make sure that basic fixed-line bodies.
This is to make sure that CPs and broadcasters abide by services are available at an affordable price to all consumers in the common standards and rules, and that nobody is disadvantaged UK.
We are also obliged to provide public payphones.
by those providers with strong positions in their markets.
Below we explain the regulatory framework and some of the recent and We have SMP in a number of markets including Business upcoming decisions taken by regulators and how they affect us.
Connectivity eg Ethernet, backhaul, Fixed Access eg LLU, GEA, WLR and Wholesale Narrowband eg Call Origination.
Ofcoms European union Eu regulation market reviews are therefore very important for us.
Following In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services a market review, if Ofcom decides that a CP has SMP, it can put are governed by directives and regulations set by the European controls in place, typically on the prices which the CP can charge.
These create a Europe-wide framework covering Ofcom will generally try to set charges that are reasonably based on services such as fixed and mobile voice, broadband, cable and costs and an appropriate return on the capital invested.
Anyone can appeal against Ofcoms decisions through a number of The directives include rules covering access and interconnection, routes, including to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT or to the universal service obligations and a requirement for national high Court.
regulators to review markets for significant market power SMP every three years.
Companies with SMP typically have a market share In March 2015, Ofcom announced a major review of the of 40% or more and are able to do things such as increase prices digital communications market.
The Strategic Review of Digital without losing business to competitors as would happen in a fully Communications will examine competition, investment, innovation competitive market.
and the availability of products in the fixed-line, broadband and mobile markets.
It will focus on three areas in particular: The directives also cover how regulators set price controls which can have a major impact on the companies subject to them.
The ensuring the right incentives for private-sector investment, rules require national regulators to consult with the EC on any price which can help deliver availability and quality of service: control decisions before they are finalised to make sure they are maintaining strong competition and tackling obstacles or consistent with European regulations.
bottlenecks that might be holding the sector back: and identifying whether there is scope for deregulation in some areas.
The EC announced its strategy for the Digital Single Market on 6 May 2015 which included a plan to review the EU The first phase of the review will examine current and future Telecommunications Framework.
As part of this review, the EC aims market factors that may affect digital communications services, and to assess how to encourage investment in infrastructure and how to current regulatory approaches.
To inform this work, Ofcom intends make current telecoms and media rules fit for new challenges and to engage with a wide range of stakeholders including industry, new providers.
The EC will also consider a European approach to consumer groups, the UK Government and devolved administrations spectrum management.
This phase of the review is expected to conclude with a discussion document in summer 2015. uK regulation BTs Undertakings The telecoms and broadcasting industries are regulated primarily by In response to Ofcoms 2005 Strategic Review of Ofcom the UKs independent regulator within the framework set Telecommunications, we gave some legally-binding undertakings by the various European directives, the Communications Act and under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These Undertakings which included other UK and EU regulations and recommendations.
The telecoms the creation of Openreach began in September 2005.
They aim sector is subject to an extensive ex-ante regulatory framework set to give clarity and certainty to the UK telecoms industry about the out under the European Common Regulatory Framework whereas way we provide upstream regulated products.
This in turn supports broadcasting and pay-TV is only subject to a mixture of separate, effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
specific regulation and general competition law.
indb 14 5 19 2015 1:07:17 AM The Strategic Report 15 Delivering our strategy Overseas regulation ladder Ladder pricing links the level of BT The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
pricing Wholesales termination charges for hosting This can hinder our ability to compete.
We are pressing incumbent non-geographic numbers such as 0800, operators around the world, and their national regulatory 0845 numbers to the retail call prices authorities, for fairer, cost-related wholesale access to their charged by mobile network operators networks.
MNOs to their customers for calling such We are in discussions with both the EC and US regulatory authorities numbers.
over what we believe to be premature deregulation of parts of the Our ladder pricing policy was disputed by the US telecoms market.
This has made it more difficult for non-US CPs MNOs.
The CAT found in our favour in August to enter and compete in the US, while European telecoms markets 2011, but this was overturned by the Court remain open to competition from US operators.
In July 2014 we won an appeal to the Impact of regulation Supreme Court that means that MNOs There were a number of regulatory decisions and outcomes of must pay BT outstanding charges for the appeals that affected us during the year and will impact us in the period starting prior to the CAT judgment in future.
BT has now reached financial settlements with all the MNOs.
Fixed In June 2014, Ofcom completed its reviews We also raised ladder charges in relation to Access and of both the Fixed Access market covering other number ranges which had also been Wholesale WLR, LLU, GEA, ISDN 2 and ISDN 30 disputed.
These were heard at the CAT in Broadband products and the Wholesale Broadband February 2015.
BT and all the MNOs have Access Access WBA market covering IPstream, now reached financial settlements in relation Market Datastream and WBC.
reviews Ofcom continued to impose charge controls on the markets where we have SMP.
These pay-TV In June 2010, Sky appealed to the CAT controls cover the three years to March against Ofcoms decision to regulate Sky 2017.
During this period, the artificially low price of In August 2012, the CAT decided in Skys full LLU will be phased out to better reflect favour.
We successfully appealed the CATs the actual costs of providing the service to decision and in February 2014, the Court of CPs.
Appeal published its judgment that the CAT Ofcom did not impose price regulation of must now reconsider the case.
Sky requested wholesale fibre broadband GEA.
permission to appeal the Court of Appeal For WBA, Ofcom enlarged the size of the judgment at the Supreme Court.
area where competition is greater and where This was rejected by the Supreme Court in we are free to set prices as we wish.
In November 2014, the CAT ruled that Fibre In May 2013, Ofcom opened an Sky must supply Sky Sports 1 and 2 to broadband investigation following a complaint which BT on IPTV on an interim basis until it has margin alleged that BT has abused its dominant concluded its review of the case.
Sky Sports position, such that the margin between the 1 and 2 continue to be provided on Digital prices BT Consumer charges for some of its Terrestrial TV.
fibre broadband products, and the wholesale This allowed us to offer Sky Sports 1 and 2 to price charged by Openreach for the relevant our customers on our YouView set-top box.
network inputs, is insufficient to allow other In March, the CAT held a hearing about CPs to compete profitably.
which panel should hear the case.
In May, In October 2014, Ofcom closed the the chairman of the panel decided to recuse investigation having found no grounds for himself from hearing the appeal, and a new taking any action.
chair will need to be appointed.
The CAT Separately in June 2014, Ofcom consulted will also need to determine the process for on proposals for an ex-ante margin squeeze reconsidering the case, as required by the test.
Ofcom issued its final statement in Court of Appeal.
Ofcoms indicative assessment In November 2014, following a complaint by was that we were likely to be making a Virgin Media, Ofcom opened an investigation sufficient margin to pass the test.
under the Competition Act 1998 and the We are required to submit to Ofcom a Treaty on the Functioning of the European formal margin test report demonstrating Union into the joint-selling arrangements compliance before the end of May 2015 and of live UK broadcast rights for FA Premier then every six months.
We believe the design of the test is flawed Ofcom has consulted interested parties, and are considering our options, including including BT, and is currently in an an appeal.
