CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Executive Committee BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir Adrian Montague Simon Thompson Simon Borrows Julia Wilson Jonathan Asquith Chairman until Chairman Designate Chief Executive Group Finance Director Deputy Chairman since April 25 June 2015 Non-executive Director since Chief Executive since May Group Finance Director and 2015 and Senior Independent Chairman since 2010.
April 2015 and appointed 2012, and an Executive member of the Executive Director since July 2014.
Chairman of Aviva plc, Chairman with effect from Director since he joined 3i in Committee since 2008.
Non-executive Director since The Manchester Airports close of 2015 AGM.
Chairman of the A member of the Groups 2011.
Chairman of Citibank Group plc and The Point of of Tullow Oil plc and Group Risk Committee, the Investment Committee since International Limited, Care Foundation charity.
non-executive director of Rio Executive Committee and the July 2012.
Joined 3i in 2006 as Citigroup Global Markets A non-executive director of Tinto plc.
Also, until 14 May Groups Investment Deputy Finance Director, with Limited and Dexion CellMark AB.
Member of the responsibility for the Groups Capital plc.
director of Amec Foster Supervisory Board of Peer finance, taxation and treasury Previous experience Previous experience Wheeler plc.
Holding B. V. the Dutch holding functions.
Also a nonChairman of Anglian Water Chairman of AXA Investment company for the Groups and executive director at Legal & Group, Michael Page Previous experience Managers to 2014.
Non- 3i Eurofund Vs investment in General Group Plc.
International plc, London Formerly a non-executive executive director of Ashmore Action.
Also a non-executive First, Friends Provident PLC, director of Sandvik AB.
Director of director at The British Land British Energy Group PLC, Executive director at Anglo Group Director of Corporate Schroders plc from 2002 to Company PLC and, until Cross London Rail Links Ltd American plc where he Finance at Cable & 2008, during which time he 21 May 2015, Inchcape plc.
Crossrail and Deputy became executive director Wireless plc.
was Chief Financial Officer Chairman of Network Rail and and chairman of Tarmac Previous experience and later Vice-Chairman.
the UK Green Investment Group.
Director of AngloGold Formerly Chairman of Previously spent 18 years in Bank plc.
A non-executive Ashanti Ltd and Newmont Greenhill & Co International investment banking with director of Skanska AB.
Previous LLP, having previously been Morgan Grenfell and career in investment banking Co-Chief Executive Officer of Deutsche Bank.
with NMRothschild Greenhill & Co, Inc. Before and S. G. Warburg.
founding the European operations of Greenhill & Co in 1998 he was the Managing Director of Baring Brothers International Limited.
Martine Verluyten Caroline Banszky Alistair Cox David Hutchison Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director since January 2012.
Chief Executive of Hays November 2013.
Chief executive director of Thomas Director of the Law Debenture plc since 2007.
Executive of Social Finance Cook Group plc, Corporation p. l. c. since 2002.
Limited and a non-executive Previous experience STMicroelectronics NV and director of the Start-Up Previous experience Chief Executive of Xansa plc Groupe Bruxelles Lambert.
Chief Operating Officer of SVB from 2002 to 2007, and Previous experience Holdings PLC, now Novae Regional President of Asia Previous experience Chief Financial Officer of Group PLC, a Lloyds listed and Group Strategy Director Until 2009 Head of UK Umicore, a Brussels-based integrated vehicle from 1997 at Lafarge formerly Blue Investment Banking at listed materials technology to 2002.
Previously Finance Circle Industries between Dresdner Kleinwort Limited group, from 2006 to Director of N. M. Rothschild & 1994 and 2002. and a member of its Global December 2011.
Before Sons Limited from 1995 to Banking Operating joining Umicore was Group 1997, having joined the bank Committee.
Controller and then Chief in 1981.
She originally trained Financial Officer with what is now KPMG.
48 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Menno Antal Kevin Dunn Jeremy Ghose Managing Partner, General Counsel, Company Managing Partner and CEO Private Equity Secretary and Head of Human of 3i Debt Management Resources A member of the Executive A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Responsible for 3is legal, Committee and Chairman of Investment Committee compliance, internal audit, the Debt Management since 2010. human resources and Investment Committee since company secretarial joining 3i in 2011 on 3is Previous experience functions.
A member of the acquisition of Mizuho Joined 3i in 2000 and Executive Committee since Investment Management Managing Director, Benelux, joining 3i in 2007.
UK Limited from Mizuho since 2003.
Prior to joining 3i, Corporate Bank.
held a broad range of Previous experience international managerial Prior to joining 3i, was a Previous experience positions within Heineken.
Senior Managing Director, Prior to joining 3i, was with running GEs European Mizuho Corporate Bank Leveraged Finance business formerly The Fuji Bank since after serving as European 1988 and on its executive General Counsel for GE.
Founder of to GE, was a partner at the Mizuhos Leveraged Finance law firms Travers Smith and business in 1988 and Latham & Watkins.
of the third-party independent debt fund management business in 2005.
Alan Giddins Ben Loomes Phil White Managing Partner, Managing Partner, Managing Partner, Private Equity Infrastructure and Group Infrastructure Strategy Director A member of the Executive A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Investment Committee Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since since 2010.
Previous experience Previous experience Joined 3i in 2005.
Prior to Previous experience Joined 3i in 2007.
Prior to joining 3i, spent 13 years in Joined 3i in April 2012.
Prior joining 3i, experience in investment banking, latterly to joining 3i, experience infrastructure investment, as a Managing Director at included mergers and advisory and financing, Socit Gnrale.
Qualified as acquisitions, financing including roles at Macquarie, a chartered accountant advisory and restructuring, WestLB and Barclays.
including roles at Goldman Sachs, Greenhill & Co and Morgan Stanley.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 49
