CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statutory and corporate governance information INVESTMENT POLICY TAX AND INVESTMENT COMPANY STATUS The UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules require 3i, as a The Company is an investment company under section closed-ended investment fund, to publish an investment 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder approval is required for material has approved the Company as an investment trust under changes to this policy.
Non-material changes can be made section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the by the Board.
The current investment policy is set Company directs its affairs to enable it to continue to out below.
REGULATION AND MANAGEMENT Investment policy ARRANGEMENTS 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its shareholders with quoted access to private equity, 3i Investments plc, 3i Debt Management Investments infrastructure and debt management investment Limited, 3i BIFM Investments Limited, 3i Europe plc and returns.
Currently, its main focus is on making quoted 3iNordic plc, all of which are subsidiaries of the Company, and unquoted equity and or debt investments in are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct businesses and funds across Europe, Asia and the Authority FCA under the Financial Services and Markets Americas.
The geographies, economic sectors, funds Act 2000.
Where applicable, certain Group subsidiaries and asset classes in which 3i invests continue to evolve businesses outside the United Kingdom are regulated as opportunities are identified.
Proposed investments locally by relevant authorities.
are assessed individually and all significant 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the investments require approval from the Groups Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Overall investment targets are these investment management and other services, for subject to periodic reviews and the investment portfolio which regulatory authorisation is required, provide for is also reviewed to monitor exposure to specific feesbased on the work done and costs incurred in geographies, economic sectors and asset classes.
These contracts may be 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
dispersion of investments by geography, economic sector, asset class and size as well as through the 3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate and maturity profile of its investment portfolio.
administrative services, for which no regulatory authorisation is required, under contracts which provide Although 3i does not set maximum exposure limits for for fees based on the work done and costs incurred in asset allocations, it does have a maximum exposure providing such services together with a performance fee limit that, save as mentioned below, no investment will based on realised profits on the sale of assets.
be made unless its cost does not exceed 15% of the 3i Investments plc is authorised by the FCA to, among investment portfolio value as shown in the last other things, manage Alternative Investment Funds published valuation.
A further investment may be AIFs.
It is currently the Alternative Investment Fund made in an existing investee company provided the Manager AIFM of four AIFs, namely, 3i Group plc, aggregate cost of that investment and of all other 3iGrowth Capital Fund, 3i Eurofund V and the 3i European investments in that investee company does not exceed Middle Market Loan Fund.
In compliance with regulatory 15% of the investment portfolio value as shown in the requirements, 3i Investments plc has ensured that a last published valuation.
A higher limit of 30% will depository has been appointed for each AIF.
This is apply to the Companys investment in 3i Infrastructure Citibank International Limited.
The Annual report and plc.
For the avoidance of doubt, 3i may retain an accounts meet the investor reporting requirements as investment even if its carrying value is greater than setout in FUND 3.2.
6R of the 15% or 30% as the case may be of the portfolio value FCAs Investment Funds sourcebook for 3i Group plc as at the time of an updated valuation.
The Companys profit for the year Investments are generally funded with a mixture of isstated in its Statement of changes in equity and its debt and shareholders funds with a view to maximising Financial position is shown on page 88.
The Company returns to shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong performs substantially all of its investment related capital base.
3is gearing depends not only on its level of activities through its subsidiaries and therefore the debt, but also on the impact of market movements and Groupsconsolidated Statement of comprehensive other factors on the value of its investments.
The Board incomeis considered to be more useful to investors takes this into account when, as required, it sets a thanaCompany statement.
precise maximum level of gearing.
The Board has therefore set the maximum level of gearing at 150% and has set no minimum level of gearing.
If the gearing ratio should exceed the 150% maximum limit, the Board will take steps to reduce the gearing ratio to below that limit as soon as practicable thereafter.
3i is committed to achieving balance sheet efficiency.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statutory and corporate governance information continued Furthermore, in some instances the relevant FUND The issued B share capital of the Company as at 1 April disclosures have been made in relation to the Group on a 2014 was 4,635,018 B shares cumulative preference consolidated basis rather than in respect of 3i Group plc as shares of 1p each.
At the AGM on 17 July 2014, the a standalone entity.
This is because 3i Group plc, as a Directors were authorised to repurchase that number of standalone entity, operates through its group subsidiaries B shares in the Company until the Companys AGM in 2015 and therefore reporting on the Groups activities provides or 16 October 2015, if earlier.
In order to simplify the more relevant information on the Company and its Companys capital structure, this authority was exercised position.
There have been no material changes to the on 13 June 2014 when the outstanding 4,635,018 B shares Companys operations in the past year.
in issue with a total nominal value of 46,350.18 were repurchased by the Company for an aggregate Although the disclosures required by FUND 3.2.
6R of the FCAs Investment Funds cancelled.
These shares represented 0.0006% of the sourcebook are covered in this Annual report they are Companys called up share capital at the date of also, for convenience, summarised on the 3i website at acquisition.
This will be updated as required and changes noted in future Annual reports.
As detailed in Note 16 to the Accounts, as at 31 March 2015 the Company had in issue Notes issued under the 3i Group RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS plc 2,000 million Note Issuance Programme.
Total comprehensive income for the year was 659 million DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS AND 2014: 478 million.
An interim dividend of 6.0p DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES comprising a base dividend of 2.7p and an additional dividend of 3.3p per ordinary share in respect of the year Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest to 31 March 2015 was paid on 7 January 2015.
The Companys Articles of Association Directors recommend a final dividend of 14.0p comprising enable Directors to approve conflicts of interest and abase dividend of 5.4p and an additional dividend of 8.6p include other conflict of interest provisions.
The Company per ordinary share be paid in respect of the year to has implemented processes to identify potential and actual 31 March 2015 to shareholders on the Register at the close conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then considered for of business on 19 June 2015. approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the Employee Trust has waived subject to certain minor As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association exceptions dividends declared on shares in the Company during the year and as at the date of this Directors report, held by the Employee Trust and the Trustee of The 3i Group there were in place Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Share Incentive Plan has waived dividends on unallocated Provisions as defined under relevant legislation for the shares in the Company held by it.
benefit of the Companys Directors and for the benefit of Directors of one associated company.
SHARE CAPITAL AND DEBENTURES EMPLOYMENT The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2014 was 971,803,122 ordinary shares and at The employment policy of the Group is one of equal 19 22 31 March 2015 was 972,453,819 ordinary shares of 73 p opportunity in the selection, training, career development each.
It increased over the year by 650,697 ordinary shares and promotion of employees, regardless of age, gender, on the issue of shares to the trustee of The 3i Group Share sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and whether Incentive Plan and on the issue of shares under The 3i disabled or otherwise.
3i treats applicants and employees with disabilities fairly At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 17 July 2014, the and provides facilities, equipment and training to assist Directors were authorised to repurchase up to 97,000,000 disabled employees to do their jobs.
Arrangements are ordinary shares in the Company representing made as necessary to ensure support to job applicants approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary who happen to be disabled and who respond to requests share capital as at 13 May 2014 until the Companys AGM to inform the Company of any requirements.
Should an in 2015 or 16 October 2015, if earlier.
This authority was not employee become disabled during their employment, exercised in the year.
efforts would be made to retain them in their current employment or to explore the opportunities for their retraining or redeployment within 3i.
Financial support is also provided by 3i to support disabled employees who are unable to work, as appropriate to local market conditions.
54 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3is principal means of keeping in touch with the views of SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS its employees is through employee appraisals, informal As at 31 March 2015, the Company was party to one consultations, team briefings, and staff conferences.
agreement that is subject to a renegotiation period on a Managers throughout 3i have a continuing responsibility to change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
keep their staff fully informed of developments and to This agreement is a 350 million multi-currency Revolving communicate financial results and other matters of Credit Facility Agreement dated 5 September 2014, interest.
This is achieved by structured communication between the Company, Barclays Bank PLC and 11 other including regular meetings of employees.
The Company is required to notify Barclays Bank 3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear PLC, as agent bank, within five days, of a change of control.
grievance and disciplinary procedures in place.
3i also has This opens a 20-day negotiation period to determine if the an employee assistance programme which provides a Majority Lenders as defined in the agreement are willing confidential, free and independent counselling service and to continue the facility.
Failing agreement, amounts is available to all UK staff and their families in the UK.
outstanding would be repayable and the facility cancelled.
3is employment policies are designed to provide a STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS competitive reward package which will attract and retain RESPONSIBILITIES high quality staff, whilst ensuring that the relevant costs remain at an appropriate level.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and accounts in accordance with applicable United 3is remuneration policy is influenced by 3is financial and Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting other performance conditions and market practices in the Standards IFRSs which have been adopted by the countries in which it operates.
All employees receive a European Union.
base salary and are also eligible to be considered for a performance-related annual variable incentive award.
For Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the those members of staff receiving higher levels of annual Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that variable incentive awards, a proportion of such awards is they present fairly the financial position, financial delivered in 3i shares, vesting over a number of years.
performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
Remuneration policy is reviewed by the 3i Group plc The Directors consider that this Annual report and Remuneration Committee, comprising 3i Group plc accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and non-executive Directors.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Where appropriate, employees are eligible to participate in business model and strategy.
In preparing the Group 3i share schemes to encourage employees involvement in financial statements the Directors: 3is performance.
Investment executives in the Private Equity business line may also participate in carried a select suitable accounting policies in accordance with interest schemes, which allow executives to share directly International Accounting Standard 8: Accounting Policies, in any future profits on investments.
Similarly, investment Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then executives in the Infrastructure and Debt Management apply them consistently: business lines may participate in asset-linked and or b present information, including accounting policies, in a fee-linked incentive arrangements.
Employees participate manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and in local state or company pension schemes as appropriate understandable information: to local market conditions.
c provide additional disclosures when compliance with POLITICAL DONATIONS the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March other events and conditions on the Groups financial 2015 no donations were made to political parties or position and financial performance: organisations, or independent election candidates, and no political expenditure was incurred.
d state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statutory and corporate governance information continued The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to proper accounting records are kept which are sufficient to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose considered the uncertainties inherent in current and with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position expected future market conditions, their possible impact of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group upon the financial performance of the Group and a report financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. from the Group Finance Director on the outlook for liquidity.
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied They have a general responsibility for taking such steps that the Company has and will maintain sufficient financial as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets resources to enable it to continue operating in the of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the other irregularities.
going concern basis in preparing the Annual report In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency and accounts.
Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: AUDIT INFORMATION a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view each of the Directors confirms that: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss a so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit of the Company and the undertakings included in the information of which the Companys Auditors are consolidation taken as a whole: and unaware: and b the Strategic report includes a fair review of the b they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to development and performance of the business and the make themselves aware of any relevant audit information position of the Company and the undertakings included in and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of the consolidation taken as a whole together with a such information.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, in the Board of Directors and Executive Committee section.
a resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors will be put to GOING CONCERN members at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation to the financial statements for the year to INFORMATION REQUIRED BY LISTING 31 March 2015.
4 The Groups business activities, together with the factors Information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 may be found as likely to affect its future development, performance and set out below: position are set out in the Business review section.
The Topic Location financial position of the Group, its capital structure, gearing Capitalised interest Portfolio income on page 26 and liquidity positions are described in the Financial review section.
The Groups policies on risk management, Share allotments Note 19 including treasury and funding risks, are contained in the Risk section.
Further details are contained in the Financial INFORMATION INCLUDED IN statements and Notes including, in particular, details on STRATEGIC REPORT financial risk management.
In accordance with section 414 C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 the following information otherwise required to be set out in the Directors report has been included in the Strategic report: risk management objectives and policies: post balance sheet events: likely future developments in the business: and greenhouse gas emissions.
56 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015
