CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD This section of the Directors report contains the corporate governance The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees for statement required by FCA Disclosure decision.
Approval of the Groups overall strategy, strategic plan CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and annual operating budget: The Company seeks to comply with established best Approval of the Companys half yearly and annual practice in the field of corporate governance.
The Board financial statements and changes in the Groups has adopted core values and global policies which set out accounting policies or practices: the behaviour expected of staff in their dealings with Changes relating to the capital structure of the shareholders, customers, colleagues, suppliers and others Company or its regulated status: who engage with the Company.
Major capital projects: Throughout the year, the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Major changes in the nature of business operations: Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in Investments and divestments in the ordinary course of September 2012 and which is available on the business above certain limits set by the Board from FRC website.
time to time: THE BOARDS RESPONSIBILITIES Policy on borrowing, gearing, hedging and ANDPROCESSES treasury matters: The Boards key responsibilities are described on page 50.
Adequacy of internal control systems: It is responsible to shareholders for the overall management Appointments to the Board and the Executive of the Group and may exercise all the powers of the Committee: Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Articles of Association and any directions given Principal terms and conditions of employment of by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles of members of the Executive Committee: and Association empower the Board to offer, allot, grant options Changes in employee share schemes and other over or otherwise deal with or dispose of the Companys long-term incentive schemes.
shares as the Board may decide.
The Companies Act 2006 authorises the Company to make market purchases of its Matters delegated by the Board to management include own shares if the purchase has first been authorised by a implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-toresolution of the Company.
day operation of the business, the appointment and remuneration of executives below the Executive At the AGM in July 2014, shareholders renewed the Boards Committee and the formulation and execution of risk authority to allot ordinary shares and to repurchase management policies and procedures.
ordinary shares on behalf of the Company subject to certain limits and also renewed the Boards authority to A succession and contingency plan for executive leadership repurchase B shares on behalf of the Company subject to is prepared by management and reviewed periodically by certain limits.
Details of the authorities which the Board the Board.
The purpose of this plan is to identify suitable will be seeking at the 2015 AGM are set out in the 2015 candidates for succession to key senior management Notice of AGM.
positions, agree their training and development needs, and ensure the necessary human resources are in place for the The Articles of Association also specifically empower the Company to meet its objectives.
Board to exercise the Companys powers to borrow money and to mortgage or charge the Companys assets and any uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued Changes to the Companys Investment Policy which MEETINGS OF THE BOARD were approved by the 2014 AGM: The principal matters considered by the Board during the year in addition to matters formally reserved to the Board The repurchase during the year of the Companys included: outstanding B shares: Review of Treasury Policy: and The Groups strategic model, related KPIs and annual budget: Organisational capability and succession plans.
Regular reports from the Chief Executive: Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee Regular reports from the Boards committees: meetings.
These papers are supplemented by information The recommendations of the Valuations Committee on specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
valuations of investments: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Annual report and accounts, half yearly report and quarterly trading updates: During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation Dividends: of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
Further details are given on page 52.
Reviews of and updates on the Groups Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses: ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEEMEETINGS The table below shows the number of full meetings of the Board and its committees attended by Directors during the year to 31 March 2015 and, in brackets, the number of such meetings they were eligible to attend.
In addition to these meetings a number of ad hoc meetings were held to deal with specific items as they arose.
Audit and Compliance Nominations Remuneration Valuations Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 6 6 6 5 4 Number attended: Sir Adrian Montague 6 6 5 5 4 4 1 S A Borrows 6 6 2 2 4 4 J S Wilson 6 6 4 4 J P Asquith 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 2 C J Banszky 3 4 4 5 A R Cox 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 D A M Hutchison 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 4 3 R H Meddings 2 2 1 1 2 2 M G Verluyten 6 6 4 4 6 6 3 4 1 Stepped down from the Nominations Committee on 24 September 2014.
58 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE APPOINTMENT AND RE-ELECTION DIRECTORS OFDIRECTORS Directors biographical details are set out on page 48.
The Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Board currently comprises the Chairman, six independent Companies Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
Sir non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial Adrian Montague served as Chairman and Mr J P Asquith, three-year term.
Before the third and sixth anniversaries Mr S A Borrows, Mr A R Cox, Mr D A M Hutchison, Ms M G of first appointment, the Director discusses with the Board Verluyten and Mrs J S Wilson served as Directors whether it is appropriate for a further three-year term to throughout the year under review.
served as a Director until 17 July 2014 and Mrs C J Banszky served as a Director from 17 July 2014.
Following the year Under the Companys Articles of Association, the minimum end, Mr S R Thompson was appointed as a non-executive number of Directors is two and the maximum is 20, unless Director on 13 April 2015. otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution.
Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as of shareholders or by the Board.
The Companys Articles of Directors, non-executive Directors are expected to bring Association provide for Directors to retire by rotation at an an independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, AGM if they were appointed by the Board since the performance, resources and standards of conduct, and to preceding AGM, they held office during the two preceding help the Board provide the Company with effective AGMs but did not retire at either of them, they held leadership.
Further details of their role are set out on page non-executive office for a continuous period of nine years 52.
Non-executive Directors are expected to make or more at the date of that AGM, or they choose to retire available sufficient time to meet the requirements of the from office.
Shareholders can remove any Director by appointment.
The average time commitment is expected to special resolution and appoint another person to be a be around 15 days a year together with additional time for director in their place by ordinary resolution.
serving on the Boards committees.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, retiring The Boards discussions, and its approval of the Groups Directors are eligible for reappointment.
The office of strategic plan and annual budget, provide the nonDirector is vacated if the Director resigns, becomes executive Directors with the opportunity to contribute to bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director or and validate managements plans and assist in the where the Board so resolves following the Director development of strategy.
The non-executive Directors suffering from ill-health or being absent from Board receive regular management accounts, reports and meetings for 12 months without the Boards permission.
information which enable them to scrutinise the Companys and managements performance against In accordance with the Code, all Directors are subject to agreed objectives.
Accordingly, at the AGM to be held on 25 June 2015, all the Directors will retire from Directors independence office.
All the Directors are eligible for and seek All the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman, reappointment other than Sir Adrian Montague who will who was independent on appointment were considered retire as a Director at the conclusion of the AGM.
The by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Boards recommendation for the reappointment of Code in the year to 31 March 2015.
Directors is set out in the 2015 Notice of AGM.
The Board reviews non-executive Director independence at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
CHIEFEXECUTIVE AND SENIOR No Director was materially interested in any contract or INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the The Board approved division of responsibilities between financial period that was significant in relation to the the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive is business of the Company.
Directors employment contracts During the year, Mr R H Meddings served as Senior Mr S A Borrows and Mrs J S Wilson each have Independent Director until 17 July 2014 when he retired employment contracts with the Group with notice periods from the Board and Mr J P Asquith served as Senior of 12 months where notice is given by the Group and six Independent Director from that date.
months where notice is given by the Director.
Save for these notice periods the employment contracts have no unexpired terms.
None of the other Directors has a service contract with the Company.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued During the year, the Nominations Committee held six Training and development meetings.
Attendance of members at those meetings is The Company has a training policy which provides a shown on the table on page 58.
The Committee: framework within which training for Directors is planned with the objective of ensuring Directors understand the Considered the balance and composition of the Board, duties and responsibilities of being a director of a listed including succession planning, and the needs of the company.
All Directors are required to update their skills Company in terms of the desirable experience and and maintain their familiarity with the Company and its qualifications of future appointees as non-executive business continually.
Presentations on different aspects of Directors: the Companys business are made regularly to the Board.
Recommended Mr Asquith for appointment as Senior On appointment, all non-executive Directors have Independent Director: discussions with the Chairman and the Chief Executive following which appropriate briefings on the Considered candidates for appointment as Chairman of responsibilities of Directors, the Companys business and the Board in succession to Sir Adrian Montague: the Companys procedures are arranged.
The Company Considered candidates for appointment as nonprovides opportunities for non-executive Directors to executive Director and recommended to the Board the obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys appointment of Mrs Banszky: and business by meeting members of the senior management team who in turn arrange, as required, visits to investment Considered and put in train arrangements for selecting or support teams.
further candidates for recommendation to the Board for The Company has procedures for Directors to take appointment as non-executive Director.
independent legal or other professional advice in relation The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent to the performance of their duties.
process for the appointment of Directors with the objective of identifying the skills and experience profile required of THE BOARDS COMMITTEES new Directors and identifying suitable candidates.
The procedure includes the appraisal and selection of potential As described on page 51, the Board is assisted by various candidates by the Committee, including in the case of principal committees of the Board which report non-executive Directors whether they have sufficient time regularly to it.
Specialist recruitment consultants Audit and Compliance Committee assist the Committee to identify suitable candidates for The membership and activities of the Audit and appointment.
The Committees recommendations for Compliance Committee are described in its report on appointment are put to the full Board for approval.
Further to the publication of the Davies Report on Women Remuneration Committee on Boards, and Code Provision B.
2.4, the Board strongly The membership and activities of the Remuneration supports the principle of boardroom diversity, of which Committee are described in the Directors remuneration gender is one important aspect.
The Boards aim is to have report on pages 72 to 81. a diverse Board in terms of gender, industry experience, Valuations Committee skills and educational background, and nationality.
The The membership and activities of the Valuations Board makes appointments on merit and against objective Committee are described in its report on pages 69 to 71. criteria.
External search consultancies engaged by the Company are instructed to put forward for all Board Nominations Committee positions a diversity of candidates including women The Nominations Committee comprises Sir Adrian candidates.
External search consultancies engaged by the Montague Chairman, Mrs C J Banszky, Mr J P Asquith, Committee during the year were Egon Zehnder, Russell MrAR Cox, Mr D A M Hutchison, Mr S R Thompson, and Reynolds Associates and The Zygos Partnership.
Egon MsM G Verluyten, all of whom served throughout the year, Zehnder and Russell Reynolds Associates also provided save for Mrs Banszky who served from her appointment other recruitment services to the Group during the year.
asa Director on 17 July 2014 and Mr Thompson who served from his appointment as a Director on 13 April THE COMPANY SECRETARY 2015.
MrRH Meddings was a member of the Committee Directors have access to the advice and services of until hisretirement from the Board on 17 July 2014 and the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who advises MrSABorrows was a member of the Committee until the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Companys Articles of Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised committees for decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
60 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAJOR INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES Notifications of the following major voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital notifiable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules or section 793 Companies Act 2006 had been received by the Company as at 31 March 2015 and 1 May 2015.
As at % of issued As at % of issued 31 March 2015 share capital 1 May 2015 share capital BlackRock, Inc 102,041,789 10.49 100,494,125 10.33 Artemis Investment Management LLP 67,795,142 6.97 64,286,507 6.61 UBS Global Asset Management 38,478,516 3.96 38,608,638 3.97 Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 38,039,519 3.91 38,039,519 3.91 State Street Global Advisors 31,585,088 3.25 31,843,893 3.27 J O Hambro Capital Management Group Limited 31,393,678 3.22 29,837,786 3.07 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 30,443,239 3.13 30,429,315 3.13 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Meetings with potential investors ANDPOTENTIAL INVESTORS During the year, the Executive Directors and the Investor Relations team held regular meetings with potential Approach to Investor Relations investors internationally to communicate the strategy The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a and performance of 3i.
The Group has a comprehensive Investor Relations programme to help Annual and half yearly results presentations existing and potential investors to understand its activities, The Executive Directors present the annual and half yearly strategy and financial performance.
The Chief Executive results to a broad group of institutional investors and and the Group Finance Director meet with the Companys analysts.
These presentations are webcast live on 3is principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they website, and the on-demand webcast remains available arise.
The Chairman maintains a dialogue with onthe website for a period of 12 months.
shareholders on strategy, corporate governance and Capital markets day Directors remuneration as required.
The Board receives The 2014 capital markets day, held in June, consisted of a reports from the Companys brokers on shareholder presentation to significant shareholders and analysts by issues and non-executive Directors are invited to attend senior 3i executives and the management team of Action, the Companys presentations to analysts and are offered 3is largest investment, followed by a tour of Actions the opportunity to meet shareholders.
distribution centre in the northern Netherlands.
The Board oversight presentation focused on Actions business model and The Executive Directors brief the Board on a regular strategy and on its recent financial performance.
The basis on the implementation of the Investor Relations presentation materials used on the day were made programme and on feedback received from analysts and available on 3is website to enable those investors and investors.
Any significant concern raised by shareholders analysts that could not attend to access the information in relation to the Group is also communicated to the Board.
In addition, research reports published by investment Industry conferences banks on 3i are circulated to the Board on a regular basis.
Throughout the year, the Executive Directors also The Board also receives periodic feedback from existing participated in a number of industry conferences shareholders and potential investors through 3is organised by investment banks for their institutional corporate brokers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch investor base.
These included conferences organised by and Barclays.
Morgan Stanley, Socit Gnrale, KBW, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Citi.
Institutional investor programme Meetings with principal shareholders Individual investors The Executive Directors meet with the Groups principal Individual investors are encouraged to engage with the shareholders on a twice yearly basis, following the Group and provide feedback through the Investor Relations publication of annual and half yearly results and as team and the Company Secretary, whose contact details required during the year.
The Chairman and Senior are available on the website.
Independent Director are also available to meet with shareholders as required.
The Investor Relations department also manages a programme of engagement with smaller shareholders, implemented through regular presentations and meetings.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Website Companys Annual report and accounts, to receive such 3is website provides a brief description of 3is history, dividends and other distributions as may lawfully be paid current operations and strategy, as well as an archive of or declared on such shares and, on any liquidation of the over 10 years of news and historical financial information Company, to share in the surplus assets of the Company on the Group and details of forthcoming events for after satisfaction of the entitlements of the holders of any shareholders and analysts.
Annual and half-year results shares with preferred rights as may then be in issue.
presentations are also webcast live and on-demand on 3is website.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid Annual General Meeting shares in the Company, save as follows.
The Board may The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to decline to register: a transfer of uncertificated shares in communicate with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities business presentations are generally made by the Regulations 2001: a transfer to more than four joint Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairmen of the holders: a transfer of certificated shares which is not in Remuneration, Audit and Compliance, and Nominations respect of only one class of share: a transfer which is not Committees are generally available to answer accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which shareholders questions.
Business to be discussed at the it relates: a transfer which is not duly stamped in meeting is notified to shareholders in advance through the circumstances where a duly stamped instrument is Notice of Meeting and covers matters such as the annual required: or a transfer where in accordance with section election of Directors, the appointment of the Auditors and 794 of the Companies Act 2006 a notice under section 793 the dividend declaration.
During the meeting, shareholders of that Act has been served by the Company on a are also asked to approve the financial statement and shareholder who has then failed to give the information report of the Directors and Auditors.
In addition, required within the specified time.
In the latter shareholders are asked to approve the Directors circumstances the Company may make the relevant remuneration report.
shares subject to certain restrictions including in respect of the ability to exercise voting rights, to transfer the The 2014 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders shares validly and, except in the case of a liquidation, to not less than 20 working days before the Meeting.
receive the payment of sums due from the Company.
At that Meeting, voting on each resolution was taken on There are no shares carrying special rights with regard to a poll and the poll results were made available on the control of the Company.
There are no restrictions placed Companys website.
on voting rights of fully paid shares, save where in accordance with Article 12 of the Companys Articles of RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS ATTACHING Association a restriction notice has been served by the TO SHARES Company in respect of shares for failure to comply with A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching to statutory notices or where a transfer notice as described shares as at 31 March 2015 is set out below.
below has been served in respect of shares and has not yet been complied with.
Where shares are held on behalf The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by of former or current employees under employee share special resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
schemes, those participants can give instructions to the Holders of ordinary shares enjoy the rights set out in the holder of such shares as to how votes attached to such Articles of Association of the Company and under the laws shares should be exercised.
Any share may be issued with or have attached to it such rights and restrictions as the In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the Company by ordinary resolution or, failing such resolution, Companys Articles of Association the Company may the Board may decide.
serve a transfer notice on holders of shares.
The relevant Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak circumstances relate to: a potential tax disadvantage to and vote at general meetings and to appoint proxies and, in the Company, b the number of United States Residents the case of corporations, corporate representatives to who own or hold shares becoming 75 or more, or c the attend, speak and vote at such meetings on their behalf.
To Company being required to be registered as an investment attend and vote at a general meeting a shareholder must company under relevant US legislation.
The notice would be entered on the register of members at such time not require the transfer of relevant shares and pending such being earlier than 48 hours before the meeting as stated transfer the rights and privileges attaching to those shares in the Notice of general meeting.
On a poll, holders of would be suspended.
ordinary shares are entitled to one vote for each The Company is not aware of any agreements between share held.
holders of its securities that may restrict the transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
62 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Policies AND VOTING POLICY Core values and global policies together comprising the Groups high-level principles and controls, with which In relation to unquoted investments, the Groups approach all staff are expected to comply: is to seek to add value to the businesses in which the Group invests through the Groups extensive experience, Detailed policies and procedures, with processes for resources and contacts and through active engagement reporting weaknesses and for monitoring corrective with the Boards of those companies.
In relation to quoted action: and investments, the Groups policy is to exercise voting rights A Compliance manual, with procedures for reporting on all matters affecting its interests.
INTERNAL CONTROL Processes Appointment of experienced and professional staff, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal both by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary control and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities: Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives A planning framework which incorporates a Board and can provide only reasonable and not absolute approved strategic plan, with objectives for each assurance against material misstatement or loss.
business unit: Through the regular meetings of the Board and the Formal business risk reviews performed by schedule of matters reserved to the Board or its duly management which evaluate the potential financial authorised committees for decision, the Board aims impact and likelihood of identified risks and possible to maintain full and effective control over appropriate new risk areas: strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
The setting of control, mitigation and monitoring The Board has put in place an organisational structure procedures and the review of actual occurrences, with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation identifying lessons to be learnt: of authority.
The Board considers and approves a strategic A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the plan and budget on an annual basis and receives regular Board, based on an annual budget with monthly updates.
In addition, there are established procedures and reporting of actual results, analysis of variances, processes for planning and controlling expenditure and scrutiny of key performance indicators and regular the making of investments.
There are also information and re-forecasting: reporting systems for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performance.
Regular reports to the Board, which analyse funding requirements, track the generation and use of capital The Group Risk Committee is a management committee and the volume of liquidity, measure the Groups formed by the Chief Executive and its purpose is to review exposure to exchange rate movements and record the the business of the Group in order to ensure that business level of compliance with the Groups funding objectives: risk is considered, assessed and managed as an integral part of the business.
There is an ongoing process for A Group Compliance function whose role is to integrate identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups regulatory compliance procedures and best practices significant risks.
This process was in place for the year to into the Groups systems: and 31 March 2015 and up to the date of this report.
Details Well defined procedures governing the appraisal and of the risk management framework can be found in the approval of investments, including detailed investment Risk section.
and divestment approval procedures, incorporating The overall internal control process is regularly reviewed appropriate levels of authority and regular postby the Board and the Audit and Compliance Committee investment reviews.
and complies with the internal control guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the Turnbull Committee.
The internal control process established for the Group includes: 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued Verification DIRECTORS REPORT An Internal Audit function which undertakes periodic For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the examination of business units and processes and Directors report of 3i Group plc comprises the Corporate recommends improvements in controls to Governance section on pages 46 to 81 other than the management: Directors remuneration report on pages 72 to 81.
The external Auditors who are engaged to express an The Strategic report, Directors report and Directors opinion on the annual financial statements: and remuneration report have been drawn up and presented An Audit and Compliance Committee which considers in accordance with and in reliance upon English company significant control matters and receives reports from law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with Internal Audit, the external Auditors and Group those reports shall be subject to the limitations and Compliance on a regular basis.
restrictions provided by that law.
The internal control system is monitored and supported By order of the Board by Internal Audit and Group Compliance, which operate K J Dunn on an international basis and report to management and Company Secretary the Audit and Compliance Committee on the Groups operations.
The work of Internal Audit is focused on the 13 May 2015 areas of greatest risk to the Group determined with Registered Office: reference to the Groups risk management process.
16 Palace Street, The external Auditors independently and objectively review London SW1E 5JD the approach of management to reporting operating results and financial condition.
They also review and test the system of internal financial control and the information contained in the annual financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing their opinion.
FINANCIAL REPORTING In the context of the above internal control framework, there are specific processes in place in relation to Financial Reporting, including: Comprehensive system of key control and oversight processes, including regular reconciliations, line manager reviews and systems access controls: Updates for consideration by the Audit and Compliance Committee of accounting developments, including draft and new accounting standards and legislation: A separate Valuations Committee which considers the Groups investment valuation policies, application and outcome: Approval of the Groups budget by the Board and regular updates on actual and forecast financial performance against budget: Reports from Internal Audit on matters relevant to the financial reporting process, including periodic assessments of internal controls, processes and fraud risk: Independent updates and reports from the external Auditors on accounting developments, application of accounting standards, key accounting judgements and observations on systems and controls: and Regular risk reviews, including an assessment of risks to reliable financial reporting covering people, processes and systems, and updates on the management of identified risks or actual incidents.
64 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015
