Governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee In addition to the above matters, the Committee reviewed the Committee remit following areas: During the year, the Audit Committee undertook its responsibilities in the methodology and content of enhanced disclosure in the Halfaccordance with its Terms of Reference, as detailed on the Companys yearly and Annual report and accounts to describe the underlying website.
The remit of the Audit Committee was broadened to include components of movements in the portfolio valuation between risk with effect from 21 January 2015.
The Committee has since been reporting periods.
The Committee believes this additional voluntary renamed the Audit and Risk Committee and its Terms of Reference disclosure provides a better explanation of movements in valuation have been amended accordingly.
during the year, the key driver of the Companys performance for the financial year reported: and Matters reviewed in the year the Group structure and accounting treatment for the entities within The principal matters reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee during the Group.
This included the criteria assessed by the Directors to the year are described below.
conclude that the Company continues to meet the definition of an Investment Entity as required for the adoption of the Investment Financial reporting Entities exception to IFRS 10, which defines how the Company presents its financial statements within the Half-yearly and Annual The Committee reviewed and made recommendations to the report and accounts.
Board regarding significant accounting matters and the accounting The Committee presented its conclusions on the above areas to the disclosures in the Half-yearly and Annual report and accounts of the Board and advised the Board that it considered the Annual report and Company.
The most significant matters of judgment considered by the accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and Committee were: provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the valuation of the Companys infrastructure assets this year, Companys performance, business model and strategy.
the areas examined included the level of discount rates applied in valuation models, with a particular focus on those used for External audit all Core infrastructure assets, where changes were proposed.
The Committee discussed these matters with the Investment Adviser The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the and the auditor, including the auditors infrastructure valuation external audit process during the year, considering performance, expert.
In light of the significant compression in returns and changes objectivity, independence and relevant experience, and concluded that in asset pricing across the infrastructure sector, and the consequent Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the Companys auditors should changes to asset valuations within the Companys portfolio in this be continued.
In structuring its review, the Committee used a practical financial year, the Audit and Risk Committee also received additional framework based on a guide issued by the Institute of Chartered independent advice in relation to the valuation of the Companys Accountants of Scotland.
Core infrastructure assets, which included comparison to relevant Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys auditor since inception in valuation benchmarks: 2007 and the audit has not been re-tendered.
The engagement audit calculation of the advisory and performance fees payable to the partner was rotated this year.
The Committee is aware of the provisions Investment Adviser as well as the review of valuations, which of the UK Corporate Governance Code that state that an audit should be drive advisory and performance fees, noted above, the Committee retendered every 10 years and the EU Audit Directive and Regulation engaged the auditor to perform additional work to agree that the which has introduced a requirement pending UK implementation to advisory and performance fees were calculated in accordance with undertake a tender of the external audit every 10 years, and change the underlying Investment Advisory Agreement: auditor at least every 20 years.
Given transitional arrangements, the investment recognition and fide-recognition the Committee reviewed Committee has decided that it will conduct a full audit tender at an the treatment of the disposal of Eversholt Rail, given that the appropriate time before 2019, when the current audit partner will be due transaction was contingent on regulatory clearance at the balance for rotation.
In reaching the conclusion to re-appoint the auditors, the sheet date.
The Committee concluded that Eversholt Rail should Directors noted that the Company continues to benefit from the insight continue be treated as an investment at the balance sheet date.
and knowledge that its auditors, which are also the Investment Advisers auditors, have of the Investment Advisers processes and controls in The Committee considered the requirements of the UK Companies relation to the Company.
This benefit will also inform the Committees Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulation 2013 decision on a tender of the Companys audit in the future.
with which it is complying voluntarily, in line with best practice reporting.
The Committee specifically reviewed the Annual report and The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Companys policy for accounts to conclude whether the financial reporting is fair, balanced, non-audit services to ensure that the provision of such services by understandable, comprehensive and consistent with how the Board the external auditor does not impair the auditors independence or assesses the performance of the Companys business during the objectivity.
In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, financial year, as required for companies with a Premium Listing the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee is required to approve under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As part of this review, the in advance all non-audit work undertaken, for the Company and its Committee considered if the Annual report and accounts provided subsidiaries, by the auditors and as a general rule the auditor will not be the information necessary to shareholders to assess the Companys engaged on investment-related work.
However, exceptions to this may performance, strategy and business model and reviewed the description be permitted if: i the Company is acting in a consortium: ii the audit of the Companys Key Performance Indicators.
firm is considered a specialist in the sector: or iii the auditor is best placed to undertake the work through its knowledge of the Companys financial systems, procedures and internal controls.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 65 Governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Ernst & Young LLP provided non-audit services for fees totalling 221,000 for the year to 31 March 2015 2014: 5,000.
This related to a review of the advisory and performance fees and to due diligence costs in relation to investment transactions and tax advice relating to the sale of Eversholt Rail.
This excludes a fee of 39,000 2014: 39,000 for the Ernst & Young LLP review of the interim financial statements which has been included in the statutory audit fee of 0.2 million.
In addition, in this financial year and previous years, and in line with the Companys policy, Ernst & Young LLP provided non-audit services to support the transaction activity conducted by the Group during the year in relation to certain investee companies.
The fees for these services are generally borne by the underlying investee companies and therefore are not included in the expenses of the Group.
Other matters Other matters reviewed by the Committee during the year were: the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Company and the Companys compliance with its regulatory requirements: the coverage of the proposed interim and final dividends, including a review of the Boards assessment of the coverage of dividend payments through income generated by the Company, non-income cash distributions received from portfolio companies and net capital profits generated from the sale of portfolio assets: the debt levels in the underlying portfolio companies: the Companys compliance with its regulatory obligations in Jersey, including a review of compliance with the Codes of Practice for Certified Funds: the risk management framework and risk assessment methodology of the Company, risk tolerances and the risk appetite for approval by the Board and the effectiveness of risk mitigation factors.
The Committee also reviewed the Companys risk log: and the ongoing impact of international initiatives such as the EU Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive, including the timing of the Companys registration under the Directive and the impact of marketing provisions under the Directive.
The Committee reported to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities and reported to the Board the key matters arising at each meeting.
All recommendations were accepted by the Board.
Steven Wilderspin Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 11 May 2015 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 66
