Governance Governance Corporate governance statement This section of the Directors report contains the Meetings of the Board corporate governance statement required by FCA A calendar of seven scheduled main Board meetings was agreed at the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2. start of the year.
Due to the nature of the Boards close involvement in the operation of the Company and in making investment-related decisions, a number of further meetings are arranged from time to time at shorter The Companys approach to corporate notice.
During the year, there were seven main meetings of the Board governance of Directors.
In addition to these meetings, there were 15 full Board meetings arranged at short notice and three meetings of specifically The Company is committed to upholding the highest standards formed committees to execute decisions arising from full Board of corporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the UK meetings.
The Directors attendance at main Board meetings is set out Corporate Governance Code the Code, a copy of which is available inthe table below: from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
uk, subject Directors attendance Number of meetings Attendance to the FCAs Listing Rule 15.6.
6 2, and to the extent applicable to the year to 31 March 2015 while a Director Company, given that it has no Executive Directors.
The Code applies to all companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, Peter Sedgwick 7 7 irrespective of their country of incorporation.
Philip Austin 7 6 1 Doug Bannister 2 2 The Company complied with all the applicable provisions of the Code for 2 the financial year ending 31 March 2015.
Sir John Collins 5 5 3 Wendy Dorman 1 1 The Board has adopted a code for Directors dealings in ordinary shares, 4 which is based on the Model Code for Directors dealings contained in the Ian Lobley 6 5 5 Listing Rules the Model Code.
The Board is responsible for taking all Ben Loomes proper and reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Model Code Paul Masterton 7 7 by the Directors.
Steven Wilderspin 7 7 1 Served from 1 January 2015.
The Boards responsibilities and processes 2 Served until 31 December 2014.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management 3 Served from 1 March 2015. of the Company.
It determines matters including financial strategy and 4 Served from 6 May 2014. planning and takes all investment and divestment decisions, taking into 5 Served until 16 April 2014. account the advice it receives from the Investment Adviser.
The Board The Boards responsibilities and business model to deliver the has put in place an organisational structure to ensure the efficient Companys strategy is set out on page 14 of the Strategic report.
This is further described under the The principal matters considered by the Board during the year in relation heading Internal control on page 64. to those responsibilities included the following: Matters reserved for the Board Strategy and portfolio balance The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and The Board conducted a review of the Companys strategy through a the Audit and Risk Committee for decision.
The matters reserved for the series of Board meetings, taking advice from the Investment Adviser, Board include: theCompanys Corporate Brokers and Financial Adviser.
These meetings involved the following: approval of the Companys overall strategy, plans and annual operating budget: review of the infrastructure market segments in which the Company approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial operates, and of competitors activity and the returns available from statements and changes in the Companys accounting policies investing in those markets: or practices: review of the Companys total return objective: approval of changes relating to the capital structure of the Company review of the Companys dividend policy: or its regulated status: review of the Companys portfolio balance and approval of the appointment and removal of the Investment Adviser portfolio concentration: and annual review and continued approval of key agreements with assessment of the Companys route to investment in the primary service providers, including the Investment Advisory Agreement with PPP market direct, or via a non-exclusive fund managed by the 3i Investments plc: Investment Adviser : approval of major changes in the nature of business operations or regular reviews of portfolio asset performance, including the investment policy: underlying performance of assets within the India Fund and review approval of investments and divestments: of the expected future returns from the portfolio: approval of portfolio company valuations and review of the review of the recommendations of the Investment Adviser on the performance and plans for each portfolio company: valuation of portfolio investments, including the benchmarking review of the adequacy of internal control systems, including those of those valuations in the context of prevailing market conditions.
operated by independent service providers: and In conducting this review, the Board and Audit and Risk Committee received additional independent advice in relation to the valuation appointments to the Board and determination of terms of of the Companys Core infrastructure investments Elenia, AWG, appointment of Directors.
Oystercatcher and XLT, which included comparisons to relevant valuation benchmarks: and regular reviews of feedback from shareholders following key strategic and financial announcements.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 59 Governance Corporate governance statement As a result of these reviews, the Board announced a revised total Information return target of 8% to 10%, to be achieved over the medium term, and Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner a new dividend policy, fide-linking the annual dividend payment from the in preparation for Board and committee meetings.
These papers are opening NAV, and targeting a progressive dividend per share.
The Board supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors is also proposing, subject to shareholder approval at an EGM, a change from time to time.
in the single-asset concentration limit from 20% to 25%.
Performance evaluation Add selectively to the portfolio and sell investments whenappropriate Board approval of new investment decisions, including the decision to invest During the year, an independent external review was conducted to in five new primary PPP projects and in the Oiltanking companies: evaluate the performance and effectiveness of the Board and that of its approval of the divestment of the Companys holding in Eversholt Rail: committees.
The review was undertaken by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, a specialist consultancy, which is fully independent from the review of regular reports from the Investment Adviser relating to the Board, the Company and any other related party.
As part of that process, infrastructure market and early stage work-in-progress: Dr Tracy Long led the review, which explored the Boards definition of its review of the investment decision-making process for role and its approach, the culture and composition of the Board, and the smaller investments: optimisation of the Boards effectiveness and governance.
Dr Tracy Long review of the primary PPP market and opportunity by geography: and also facilitated the following: review of the market opportunity in a number of a review of the performance of the Board and its committees, as well European geographies.
as of individual Directors, led by the Chairman: Financial management a review of the Chairman, led by the Senior Independent Director: a review of the Audit and Risk Committee, led by the chairman of the management of the Companys liquidity and review of the Companys Audit and Risk Committee.
liquidity policy: The results of the processes were formally reported to the Board approval of the arrangement of additional short-term borrowing and Audit and Risk Committee respectively.
All Board members and facilities to position the Company to make commitments for potential members of the Investment Adviser gave personal views and feedback new investments while awaiting the receipt of proceeds from the sale was presented to the Board.
of the investment in Eversholt Rail: review of the Companys existing revolving credit facility, and decision Following the completion of the above process, the Board noted that the to renew the facility in May 2015 to benefit from improved terms and results of the exercise showed a high overall degree of satisfaction with to increase its size to 300 million: the Boards: i open and collaborative culture, fostered by the Chairman during Board meetings: ii strong relationship with the Investment ongoing review of foreign exchange hedging: Adviser: iii focus on, and quality of the strategic debate: iv shareholder review and ongoing monitoring of the OECDs Action Plan on Base relationships: v frequency and quality of meetings: and vi use of Erosion and Profit Shifting: committees.
The quality of the support received by the Board from its approval of the Companys annual budget for the year to 31 March advisers, as well as the quality of the information used by the Board to 2016: and inform its decision making were also noted.
following the year end, approval of its intention to implement a The following recommendations were made as a result of the review: 150 million return of capital.
to continue to accelerate and deepen the level of Directors Manage relations with the Investment Adviser knowledge and understanding of the markets in which the Company operates, to allow them to provide constructive challenge to the preparation of the Extraordinary General Meeting to approve the Investment Adviser.
In this context, it was agreed that priorities for amendments to the Investment Advisory Agreement entered into on both internal and external Board presentations, detailing aspects 8 May 2014: and of the infrastructure sector, should be reviewed and agreed by the a review with the Investment Adviser of its origination capabilities.
Board within the context of the broader corporate calendar: and Other matters considered by the Board to continue to address the future composition and succession requirements for the Board, including the succession of the review of the Companys corporate brokers.
The role of the Senior Independent Director and of the process, the Board approved the appointment of RBC Capital Markets Nominations Committee with respect to the Chairmans succession as joint corporate broker to the Company.
JPMorgan Cazenove should be set out in detail.
Limited was retained as the other joint corporate broker: the Board received updates to UK and Jersey law and regulations and considered their impact on the Company: and the Board considered the market practice for offering a scrip dividend alternative to shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman represents the Company on the advisory board of the India Fund and participated in two meetings of that board in the past year, as well as the India Funds annual investor meeting, which were attended by the Investment Advisers team and included a presentation from an external speaker covering an overview of the Indian economy.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 60 Governance Investment Adviser Directors The Board comprises the Chairman and six non-executive Directors.
The Board has a Management Engagement Committee comprising all Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on page Board members, with the exception during the year of Ben Loomes, 55.
All Directors served throughout the year under review, with the the 3i Group nominee Director who served until 14 April 2014 and Ian exception of Sir John Collins, who served until 31 December 2014, Ben Lobley, who has served as the 3i Group nominee Director from 6 May Loomes, who served until 16 April 2014, Ian Lobley, who was appointed 2014, which carries out the annual evaluation of the Investment Adviser with effect from 6 May 2014, Doug Bannister, who was appointed with required under the Listing Rules and which manages the relationship effect from 1 January 2015 and Wendy Dorman, who was appointed with with the Investment Adviser on behalf of the Company.
During the year, effect from 1 March 2015. the Committee assessed the performance of the Investment Adviser.
Following its assessment, and based on the good performance of the No Director has a service contract with the Company, nor are any such Investment Adviser, the Directors believe that the continued appointment contracts proposed.
The Directors were appointed as non-executive of the Investment Adviser on the terms set out in Note 18 is in the Directors by the subscribers to the Memorandum of Association of interest of shareholders.
the Company or at subsequent Board meetings.
Each of the Directors has an appointment letter which reflects the best practice guidelines published in December 2011 by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Appointment and re-election of Directors and Administrators.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles provide for: Following the formal appraisal process of Directors, and in accordance a Directors to retire at the first AGM after their appointment by the with Section B.
7.2 of the Code, the Chairman will propose the election or Board and for the number nearest to, but not exceeding, one-third of the re-election of all Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
remaining Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM: and Copies of the appointment letters are available from the Company b all Directors to retire at least every three years.
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, however, all directors The Directors appointment can be terminated, without compensation of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by for loss of office, in accordance with the Articles.
Under the Articles, their shareholders.
As a result, all Directors will voluntarily retire and appointments can inter alia be terminated on notice from the other stand for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM.
members of the Board, and also on ceasing to be a Director if they fail to be re-elected at any Annual General Meeting.
In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as Directors, the Directors are expected to bring The Chairman an independent judgment to bear on issues of strategy, performance, The Chairman, Peter Sedgwick, leads the Board in the determination investment appraisal and standards of conduct.
They are also expected and implementation of its strategy.
The Chairman is responsible for to ensure high standards of financial probity on the part of the Company.
organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and As well as papers for Board meetings, the Directors receive monthly setting its agenda.
The Chairman also acts as the Companys appointed management accounts, reports and information which enable them to member to the Advisory Board for the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
scrutinise the Companys performance against agreed objectives.
He receives no additional remuneration for this role.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of all the Directors and constructive Changes to the Board of Directors relations between the Companys advisers, including the Investment Adviser, and the Directors.
The Chairman maintains direct links with the During the year, there were several changes to the Board.
Following the Companys advisers and ensures that regular reports from them are appointment of Ben Loomes as Managing Partner of 3is Infrastructure circulated to the Directors to enable the Directors to remain aware of business, Ian Lobley replaced Ben Loomes as the 3i Group nominee shareholders views.
The Chairman ensures, with the co-operation of Director.
Sir John Collins stepped down in December 2014 and two the Investment Adviser, that a programme of effective communications new Directors, Doug Bannister and Wendy Dorman, were appointed.
is available for shareholders, including with the Chairman and Senior On 11 May 2015, Peter Sedgwick, the Chairman, notified the Board of Independent Director, when shareholders so wish.
his intention to stand down at the end of calendar year 2015, and the likelihood is that one Director will stand down in each of the following two years.
Senior Independent Director Philip Austin is the Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with Directors independence the Code, any shareholder concerns can be conveyed to the Senior Independent Director.
The contact details of the Senior Independent All the Directors, with the exception of Ian Lobley, who was appointed Director are freely available on the Companys website or through the as the 3i Group nominee to the Board with effect from 6 May 2014, are Company Secretary.
considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Board assesses and reviews the independence of each of the Directors at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
No Director was materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the financial year in relation to the business of the Company.
As non-independent Directors who served during part of the year and who were not members of the Management Engagement Committee, Ben Loomes and Ian Lobley did not participate in the Boards evaluation of the performance of the Investment Adviser.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 61 Governance Corporate governance statement Training and development Remuneration Committee The Company has developed a framework within which training for The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Philip Austin, is charged Directors is planned, with the objective of ensuring that the Directors with reviewing the scale and structure of the non-executive Directors understand the duties and responsibilities of being a director of a listed remuneration, and for the year under review was constituted by all the company and the business environment of the Company.
All Directors independent non-executive Directors Peter Sedgwick, Philip Austin, are required to continually update their skills and maintain their Steven Wilderspin, Doug Bannister, Sir John Collins, Wendy Dorman familiarity with the Company and its business.
Presentations on different and Paul Masterton.
All members served throughout the year, except aspects of the Companys business are made regularly to the Board, for Sir John Collins, who served until 31 December 2014, and Doug usually by the Investment Adviser, but on occasion by other advisers, Bannister and Wendy Dorman, who were appointed on 1 January 2015 including the Companys corporate brokers and financial adviser.
The Remuneration Committee had two meetings in the year to 31 March 2015, attended by all members.
On appointment, all Directors have discussions with the Chairman A report from the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 67. and Company Secretary, following which appropriate briefings on the responsibilities of Directors, the Companys business, the Companys Nominations Committee procedures and, where appropriate, briefings on the infrastructure market are arranged.
The Company provides opportunities for Directors The Nominations Committee, chaired by Peter Sedgwick, in the year to obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys business and the under review comprised Philip Austin, who served throughout the year, industry it operates in by meeting senior members of the investment and Paul Masterton.
Paul Masterton was appointed to this Committee advisory team who in turn can arrange, as required, visits to portfolio on 1 May 2014, replacing Sir John Collins, who served until that date.
The Committee held five scheduled meetings in the year to 31 March 2015, attended by all members, with the exception of Sir John Collins This year, the Directors also received presentations on aspects of the and Phil Austin, who were absent for one meeting each.
In addition, infrastructure market, including recent transactions and the returns there were several informal discussions held between the members in available from investing in the Core infrastructure market, as well as the relation to matters agreed at scheduled meetings.
market opportunity in primary PPP in Europe.
The Board also received briefings on legal updates in relation to changes to laws and regulations The Committee is responsible for adopting a formal and transparent in Jersey and the UK.
procedure for the appointment of new Directors, including interviewing potential candidates.
Final decisions on nominations, however, are taken The Chairman attended a number of externally facilitated meetings by the entire Board.
The Nominations Committee can use the services of on corporate governance.
The Company has procedures for Directors external search consultancies when new directors are being recruited.
to take independent legal or other professional advice about the During the year, the Nominations Committee approved the nomination performance of their duties.
of Doug Bannister and of Wendy Dorman.
As part of the process to appoint new Directors to the Board, the Committee availed itself of the The Boards committees services of Thomas & Dessain, an external search consultancy which is independent from the Company.
The Board is assisted by various standing committees which report regularly to the Board and reviews the membership of these committees As well as seeking an appropriate balance of expertise and experience, on a regular basis.
especially in finance and infrastructure, the nominations process has to take account of the residence of Directors, as the majority of Directors The Boards committees all have clearly defined terms of reference have to be non-resident in the UK.
For practical reasons relating to the which are available at www.
The terms of conduct of the Companys affairs, most Directors are resident in the reference of the Audit and Risk Committee, of the Nominations Channel Islands.
Committee, of the Remuneration Committee and of the Management Engagement Committee provide that no one other than the particular The Committee has been reviewing succession planning, to ensure that committee chairman and members may attend meetings, unless invited processes and plans are in place with regards to Board appointments to attend by the relevant committee.
dealing with succession and diversity.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out below.
Audit and Risk Committee Diversity The Audit and Risk Committee, chaired by Steven Wilderspin, in the year The Companys policy is to have a Board with a diverse range of skills, under review also comprised Philip Austin, Doug Bannister, Sir John professional backgrounds and gender.
To that end it will continue to Collins and Paul Masterton.
All members served throughout the year, ensure that in making appointments to the Board it, and any executive except for Doug Bannister, who was appointed on 1 January 2015, and search firm that assists it, will consider a wide range of candidates from Sir John Collins, who served until 31 December 2014.
The qualifications different backgrounds while making appointments solely on merit and of the members of the Audit and Risk Committee are set out in the which meet the objectives of its policy on diversity, including gender.
biographical details of the Directors on page 55.
All the members of the In the majority of years since the Companys IPO, there has been one Audit and Risk Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
or more female members of the Board.
For most of the financial year, The Board is satisfied that the Audit and Risk Committee chairman, the Board had no female members.
In line with its policy objectives, the Steven Wilderspin, has recent and relevant financial experience and is a Nominations Committee searched for suitable female candidates during qualified Chartered Accountant.
the year and Wendy Dorman was appointed as a non-executive Director During the year to 31 March 2015, there were four meetings of the Audit with effect from 1 March 2015. and Risk Committee, attended by all members.
A report from the Audit and Risk Committee is set out on page 65.
Investment Committee During the year, it was agreed that the remit of the Audit Committee As outlined on page 54, the Board as a whole acts as the would be broadened to Audit and Risk with effect from 21 January 2015 Investment Committee.
and the committee was renamed Audit and Risk Committee with effect from the same date.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 62 Governance Management Engagement Committee Board oversight The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Peter Sedgwick The Investment Adviser briefs the Board on a regular basis on the and, in the year under review, comprised Philip Austin, Sir John Collins implementation of the Investor Relations programme and on feedback until 31 December 2014, Doug Bannister from 1 January 2015, Wendy received from analysts and investors.
Any significant concern raised by Dorman from 1 March 2015, Paul Masterton and Steven Wilderspin.
shareholders in relation to the Company is also communicated to the Board.
In addition, research reports published by investment banks on While the remit of the Committee is to manage all aspects of the the Company are circulated to the Board on a regular basis.
relationship with the Investment Adviser, its principal function is to consider annually, and recommend to the Board, whether the The Board also receives periodic feedback from existing shareholders continued appointment of the Investment Adviser is in the best and potential investors through the Companys corporate brokers, interest of the Company and its shareholders and to give reasons for JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and RBC Capital Markets.
The Committee also reviews the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
Institutional investor programme During the year, there were five meetings of the Management Meetings with principal shareholders Engagement Committee, attended by all members, with the exception The Investment Adviser meets with the Companys principal of the meeting on 1 October 2014, which Phil Austin did not attend, as shareholders regularly on a twice yearly basis, following the publication well as the meeting on 12 December 2014, which Sir John Collins did of annual and half yearly results and as required during the year.
In those meetings, the Committee monitored the overall The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available relationship and among specific topics it: to meet with institutional shareholders as required.
The Chairman reviewed the amendments to the Investment Advisory Agreement, held several meetings with institutional shareholders during the as set out in detail on pages 56 and 57: year, including meetings in advance of changes to the Investment Advisory Agreement.
reviewed reports from industry analysts, comparing the performance of listed infrastructure investment companies, Meetings with potential investors including an analysis of the terms of their advisory agreements and During the year, the Investment Adviser held regular meetings with fees charged: potential investors in the UK and internationally to communicate the monitored and reviewed the Investment Advisers performance strategy and performance of the Company.
against the Companys targets and general market conditions: Annual and half yearly results presentations reviewed the quality, timeliness, accuracy and relevance of the The Chairman and Investment Adviser present the annual and half information provided to the Board, including reviews of portfolio yearly results to a broad group of analysts.
company performance: and reviewed non-investment services provided by the Capital markets day Investment Adviser.
The capital markets day, held on 23 September 2014, consisted of a presentation to significant shareholders and analysts by senior The Company Secretary members of the Investment Adviser and the management teams of Elenia and Oiltankings Amsterdam, Malta and Singapores terminals, The Company has appointed Capita Financial Administrators Jersey businesses in which the Company is invested.
The presentations Limited as Company Secretary.
focused on Elenias and Oiltankings business model and strategy and All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company on their recent financial performance.
There was also a presentation Secretary, who advise the Board, through the Chairman, on governance outlining the Investment Advisers primary PPP investment capability matters.
The Companys Articles of Association and the schedule of and strategy and its view of the primary PPP market across Europe.
matters reserved for the Board or its duly authorised committees for The presentation materials used on the day were made available on the decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Companys website to enable those investors and analysts that could not Secretary would be a matter for the full Board.
attend to access the information provided at the meeting.
The Board reviewed the Company Secretarys performance during the Industry conferences year and approved their continued appointment.
Throughout the year, the Investment Adviser also participated in a number of industry conferences and seminars organised by investment banks for their institutional investor base.
These included conferences Relations with shareholders organised by JPMorgan Cazenove and Oriel Securities.
Approach to Investor Relations Individual investors The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful relationship with shareholders and the Company has a comprehensive Individual investors are encouraged to engage with the Company and Investor Relations programme, devised and implemented by provide feedback through the Company Secretary, whose contact details the Investment Adviser, to help existing and potential investors are available on the website.
to understand its activities, strategy and financial performance.
The Chairman maintains a dialogue with shareholders on strategy and Website corporate governance as required and shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and with the Senior Independent The Companys website provides a description of strategy and portfolio, Director.
The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers on as well as a full archive of news and historical financial information and shareholder issues and Directors are invited to attend the Companys details of forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts.
presentations to analysts and are offered the opportunity to meet shareholders at the AGM.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 63 Governance Corporate governance statement Annual General Meeting the Investment Advisers procedures for evaluating investments include detailed appraisals and due diligence that are reviewed by the The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to communicate Board as appropriate: with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, business presentations are the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare valuations generally made by the Chairman and the Investment Adviser.
The Senior and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Independent Director and chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Companys activities and review its performance: are also generally available to answer shareholders questions.
the Investment Advisers compliance and internal audit departments Business to be discussed at the Meeting is notified to shareholders in continually review the Investment Advisers operations.
The Audit and advance through the Notice of Meeting and covers matters such as the Risk Committee has access to relevant sections of their reports: annual election of directors, the appointment of the auditors and the dividend declaration.
During the Meeting, shareholders are also asked the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare the halfto approve the financial statements and report of the Directors and yearly and annual accounts of the Group and monitor all associated auditors.
In addition, shareholders are asked to approve the Directors financial reporting processes that are reviewed by the Board as remuneration report and any proposed changes to non-executive appropriate: and Directors fees.
the Investment Adviser and the service providers notify the Board of any changes in accounting standards which may impact The 2014 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not less than the Companys significant accounting policies or any other 20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting on each statutory requirements which may subsequently impact the resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were made available financial statements.
The Company does not have a separate internal audit function as it is not deemed appropriate given the structure of the Company, although this is Portfolio management and voting policy reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys approach is to seek to add value to the businesses in which it invests through the extensive Principles and processes experience, resources and contacts of the investment advisory team.
In relation to quoted equity investments, the Companys policy is to The Company adopts a set of core values and controls, which include: exercise voting rights on matters affecting the interests of the Company.
a planning framework which incorporates a Board-approved medium-term strategy: Internal control formal business and operating risk reviews which evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood of identified risks and The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal possible new risk areas: control.
The Audit and Risk Committee performed its annual review of the systems effectiveness and reported its conclusions to the Board.
the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and the The internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate review of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learned: the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement on an annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, or loss.
analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance measures and regular reforecasting: The Board has contractually delegated investment advisory and support services to its key service providers and their contractual obligations regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse the funding encompass the implementation of systems of internal control, including requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the volume financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
of liquidity and record the level of compliance with the Companys The Audit and Risk Committee of the Company receives reports on the funding objectives: control systems and their operation from its main service providers, well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval of and is responsible for reviewing these reports for determining the investments, including detailed investment and divestment approval effectiveness of internal controls.
procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular post-investment reviews: and In addition, the Board regularly reviews the principal risks faced by the an Audit and Risk Committee which considers significant control Company and any entries in the Companys risk log.
matters and receives relevant reports from key service providers Key procedures designed to provide effective internal control for the compliance, control or internal audit functions.
The remit of the Audit year under review and up to the date of this Report include: and Risk Committee was expanded to also cover risk management with effect from January 2015. the Investment Advisory and UK Support Services agreements specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Adviser and the service providers.
These agreements set out information and reporting systems for monitoring the Companys investments and their performance: the Board considers and approves the Companys strategy and approves a budget on an annual basis: reports on the planning, forecasting and controlling of expenditure and the making of investments are regularly submitted to the Board and reviewed in detail: 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 64
