Risk committee The committee is key to the continuing effective oversight of risk.
Richard Mully Composition The risk committee is chaired by Richard Mully, who is supported The committee received a number of regular reports at each of its by four independent non-executive directors, Julie Chakraverty, four meetings during the year.
The Group Head of Risk provided Jim Pettigrew, Val Rahmani and Simon Troughton.
All members of updates to the committee on each area of the risk divisions the committee served throughout the year except Val Rahmani functions, including business, investment and market risk, as well who was appointed to the committee in February 2015, following as reporting on legal and compliance issues.
In addition, other her appointment to the Board of Directors.
members of the risk division, including the Heads of Market and Business Risk and Compliance and Internal Audit and the General Responsibilities Counsel also attended during the year to present on their own The committee has oversight of the risk management framework areas of responsibility.
and, more specifically, the effectiveness of risk management and Members of the committee continue to meet independently compliance activity within the Group.
The committee advises the with the executive and staff from different business divisions Board on considerations and processes relevant to setting the throughout the year in order to further their knowledge of the risks risk appetite and related tolerances.
Oversight of the work of the facing the business.
In addition, the chairman of the committee, compliance division, including compliance monitoring, is one of Richard Mully, has been a regular attendee at the meetings of the the key functions of the risk committee.
Matters of a compliance conflicts committee.
nature that are relevant to the audit committee remit continue to be reported under the business of the audit committee as well as The committee has a standard agenda covering all areas of its the risk committee.
In addition, the committee has a responsibility responsibility and also continued to focus on specific issues during to review the implementation of appropriate procedures to the year, including liquidity and concentration risks, divisional identify and control all fundamental operational, financial, restructuring, SWIP integration updates, information security and reputational and regulatory risks within the Group.
As reported in prior years the committee continues to undertake and monitor its blue sky risk concerns and has Report on the committees activities during the year been able to identify and assess the current risks, assessing During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, considered severity, likelihood and velocity and the considered under its terms of reference and, in particular by: interconnections of each risk.
With this additional focus and detail, a reviewing the effectiveness of risk management, governance the committee has been able to consider the impact of these and compliance activity within the Group: on the Groups strategic priorities, MI and monitoring and also b advising the Board on considerations and processes for setting consider the impact of this on the Groups regulatory capital and the Groups risk appetite and related tolerances: ICAAP.
The results showed that while there were no risks identified in the very high likelihood severity quadrants, there were some, c seeking to ensure that senior management has in place such as investment performance and succession that were in the procedures and mechanisms to identify and control all next category.
In addition, the work undertaken was also able to fundamental operational, financial, reputational, and identify a number of risks that were interconnected, thus providing regulatory risks: further detail for consideration in the Risk Appetite statement.
d reviewing and recommending the approval of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP to the Board: The addition of Val Rahmani to the committee has assisted with the committees ability to review and question the business in e seeking to ensure that all risks were being addressed by respect of IT, operations and cyber issues.
This year the committee management in line with the Groups risk appetite: has overseen progress on ensuring that appropriate controls were f meeting with the heads of compliance and risk without other in place to manage cyber crime prevention, has received updates executives present: on the restructuring of the IT and operations divisions and has also g reviewing the compliance departments terms of reference, received updates on information security controls.
As part of the their work programmes and receiving regular reports on their review on cyber issues, the business employed PwC to undertake work during the year: and a review of the current business practices and controls in place to h reviewing the committees terms of reference, carrying out mitigate any cyber issues.
The results of the review were discussed an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the by the committee and they were pleased to see progress to ensure satisfactory operation of the committee.
that our practices were appropriate.
During the year, the company recruited an experienced Chief Technology Officer and he has been in attendance and will be asked to present to a future meeting of the committee.
70 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Compliance monitoring remains a key focus for the committee and at each meeting of the committee, the Head of Compliance has presented the results of the compliance monitoring work and has provided regulatory updates.
The committee has approved the annual monitoring plan.
He has also presented the results from each of the external regulatory visits that the Group has received during the year and the committee has ensured that all matters raised with the committee have been addressed appropriately.
The committee continues to receive independent data on the reputational risks to which the Group is exposed through an assessment against peers gathered from all relevant press releases, analyst reviews and social media monitoring.
The scoring derived from this assessment is tracked by a key indicator with any trends identified.
Meetings and attendance The committee operates under formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and held four formal meetings during the year, all of which were held on the same day as the meetings of the audit committee, in order to facilitate appropriate interaction between the two committees.
In addition to the members of the committee, other regular attendees at the meetings included other members of the Board, both executive and non-executive, as well as the General Counsel and Heads of Business risk, Compliance and Internal Audit.
Representatives of KPMG were specifically invited to certain meetings of the committee, dependent on the matters being discussed.
Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended Richard Mully 4 4 Julie Chakraverty 4 4 Jim Pettigrew 4 4 Val Rahmani 2 2 Simon Troughton 4 4 aberdeen-asset.
