Corporate governance Nominations committee The committee has focused on Board and committee membership and ensuring executive succession plans are fit for purpose.
Roger Cornick Composition In the year under review, the committee received updates from The nominations committee is chaired by Roger Cornick and Kerry Christie, the Global Head of Human Resources, on the talent he is supported by two independent non-executive directors, management programme.
The committee were updated on the Jim Pettigrew and Simon Troughton, all of whom served progress of the senior leadership and emerging talent programmes throughout the year.
and it was noted that both continued to be developed in order to ensure that those individuals included within the programmes Responsibilities were provided with the appropriate training in order to allow them The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and to develop and to be able accept senior management positions composition of the Board and for recommending new directors for within the Group within certain timeframes.
The committee appointment to the Board.
The committee carries out an annual also received and undertook a review of the succession plans for review of the membership of each of the Boards committees and the members of the group management board and other senior makes recommendations to the Board.
Following this review the Chairman was able to The Board, as a whole, has responsibility for the appointment report to the Board that the succession plans in place were fit of new directors and for nominating them for election by for purpose.
shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
The committee were also provided with a worked example of The committee is also responsible for considering and making the succession plan for the head of US equities, following the recommendations to the Board on succession planning for retirement of the incumbent, during the year.
Kerry Christie directors and other senior executives.
provided the committee with the details of the potential successors, their current suitabilities for the role and the training Report on the committees activities during the year necessary to enable them to accept the role within reasonable During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, timeframes.
Following this review, the committee satisfied under its terms of reference, by: themselves with the appropriateness of Ralph Bassett to be a reviewing the proposals for rotation and re-election of updated to the role.
directors at the Annual General Meeting: Board diversity b considering and making recommendations to the Board for We are long-standing supporters of diversity in the boardroom the appointment of a new director and for changes to the throughout the group and we are supportive of the Financial membership of the committees: Reporting Councils aims to encourage diversity in the boardroom.
Our current Board is made up of fourteen directors of whom four c reviewing the succession plans for the executive directors and 29% are women.
We remain of the opinion that appointments the other members of the GMB: to the Board should be made relative to a number of different d reviewing senior management training and development: criteria, including diversity of gender, background and personal attributes, alongside the appropriate skill set, experience and e reviewing the external appointments and time commitments expertise.
We will continue to insist that long lists and short lists of the directors: of possible appointments to the Board reflect that position.
f discussing the results of the annual performance evaluation Meetings and attendance exercise: and The committee operates under formal terms of reference which g examining the operations of the committee and reviewing its are reviewed annually and held five meetings during the year.
The Chief Executive was also a regular attendee at the meetings of the committee.
The attendance at meetings by the members is as As previously reported in 2014, the committee had appointed shown in the table below: an external search consultant, Odgers Berndtson, in order to identify a new non-executive director.
The committee provided Maximum possible Meetings a full specification of the skill set required and, following a attendance attended detailed interview process, we identified Val Rahmani as the most appropriate candidate.
Ms Rahmani was subsequently appointed Roger Cornick 5 5 to the Board on 3 February 2015 and will stand for election at the Jim Pettigrew 5 5 Companys annual general meeting on 27 January 2016.
Simon Troughton 5 5 Odgers Berndtson has no other connection with the Group.
