Innovation committee Successful implementation of our innovation strategy is key to the future development of the Group.
Julie Chakraverty Composition The committee recognised the importance of understanding The innovation committee is chaired by Julie Chakraverty and the clients needs and their behaviours and, with this in mind, she is supported by three other standing members, Val Rahmani, members of the committee, along with the Groups Chief Andrew Laing and Kerry Christie the Global Head of Human Executive and Head of Marketing, visited a number of digital Resources as well as a further nine members of staff from our businesses based in Silicon Valley in the USA.
The purpose of regional offices, the majority of which are on our emerging talent the trip was to see how digital businesses were innovating and programme.
The committee will look to rotate those non standing to gain an understanding of the potential threats and benefits members after an appropriate period.
The team were also keen to understand the culture of these new businesses and to understand how they managed Responsibilities to attract top talent, noting the link with further education The committee is responsible for creating a framework for establishments.
Several learnings from the trip are being actioned.
Aberdeen to best respond to innovation opportunities.
It seeks to do this in two ways.
First, to provide a platform for all Aberdeen Meetings and attendance colleagues to share their innovation ideas and shape our future The committee operates under formal terms of reference which business and culture, focusing on the four priorities of customers, are reviewed annually.
The committee held nine meetings during talent, productivity, and brand.
Secondly, through inviting external the year.
Details of attendance from the Board members are innovation experts to help drive committee debate so that key shown in the table below.
Other regular attendees at the opportunities or investment areas may be communicated to meetings of the committee included the Group Head of HR, the Board.
Head of Marketing, Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Technology Officer.
Report on the committees activities during the year The committee was formed in 2014 to assist in harnessing ideas Maximum possible Meetings from across the business.
One of its first activities was to launch attendance attended a new global idea-sharing platform called Ignite.
This platform Julie Chakraverty 9 9 helps facilitate collaboration between colleagues, regardless of location or role, by posing business challenges and sharing ideas Andrew Laing 9 8 and solutions.
The first three challenges sought ideas on how best Val Rahmani 7 7 to keep pace with the evolving digital world, how to capitalise on the changing global retirement market and then looked to identify the greatest opportunity or disruptor facing Aberdeen and how, in terms of technology, service or operations, to best respond.
There has been significant take up from the business to these challenges and following a review it was agreed to take six suggestions forward to develop further.
The committee has also set a number of challenges to gain ideas as to how we can recruit and retain the very best talent in our industry.
Again there was a significant response on Ignite from staff and the committee is currently looking at how to implement a number of the ideas suggested.
One of the aims of the committee going forward was to look to embed an innovation culture into the business in all decisions being made across the Group by ensuring that innovation is reflected in the Group Strategy.
68 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
