Board of directors Roger Cornick Martin Gilbert Chief Executive Chairman Background and experience Background and experience Roger was with Perpetual PLC for over 20 years where, latterly, he Martin trained as a chartered accountant prior to moving into served as deputy chairman.
Roger has over 30 years experience of investment management with an Aberdeen firm of solicitors.
marketing and distribution in financial services and is currently a He is a founding director and shareholder of the Group.
Martin is trustee of the River and Rowing Museum.
also chairman of the PRA Practitioner Panel, and a member of the Monetary Authority of Singapores International Advisory Panel.
Date of appointment Roger was appointed to the Board as an independent nonDate of appointment executive director on 23 January 2004 and was appointed Martin was appointed to the Board on 1 July 1983.
Roger is also chairman of Other appointments the nominations committee.
Sky plc senior independent non-executive director Other appointments The River and Rowing Museum trustee Simon Troughton Julie Chakraverty Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Background and experience Background and experience Simon was a partner at Cazenove and Company Limited before Julie was formerly a board member of UBS Investment Bank moving to Fauchier Partners in 2003 where he became chief and a non-executive director of Spirit Pub Company and the operating officer.
He qualified as a chartered surveyor having insurance company Paternoster.
Within UBS, she held a number read Land Economy at Cambridge University.
of global leadership positions with a specialised background in risk management and fixed income.
She started her financial career Date of appointment over 20 years ago at JP Morgan, after graduating with first class Simon was appointed to the Board on 29 July 2009 and is honours in Economics from St Johns College, Cambridge.
chairman of the remuneration committee.
Date of appointment Other appointments Europe Julie was appointed to the Board on 4 May 2011 and is chairman Redburn Limited non-executive director of the innovation committee.
Other appointments Amlin plc non-executive director Rungway Limited director Girls Day School Trust trustee 56 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Andrew Laing Rod MacRae Deputy Chief Executive Group Head of Risk Background and experience Background and experience Andrew joined the Group in 1986 with responsibility for private Rod is responsible for UK and global risk including regulatory equity investment.
Andrew was subsequently appointed chief compliance, legal services, business and market risk.
Prior to joining Aberdeen, Andrew practiced Rod joined Aberdeen in 2003, following the acquisition of commercial law and was a private equity fund manager Edinburgh Fund Managers.
He graduated with an MA in Economics from the University He graduated from the University of Aberdeen with an MA in of Edinburgh and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Politics and International Relations, and an LLB.
Andrew serves Accountants of Scotland.
Rod is a director of a number of on the board of the Investment Association and is also a director of Group subsidiary companies.
a number of Group subsidiary companies.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Rod was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2012.
Andrew was originally appointed to the Board in 1987 and then again on 23 January 2004 and was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 2008.
Richard Mully Jim Pettigrew Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Background and experience Background and experience Richard was formerly the co-founder and managing partner of Jim was formerly chief executive of CMC Markets plc.
Prior to Grove International Partners LLP, a major real estate private equity joining CMC, he was chief operating officer and finance director firm.
He spent much of his 30 year career in financial services as an at Ashmore Group plc, chief financial officer of ICAP plc from investment banker.
Richard graduated with first class honours in 1999-2006 and group treasurer at Sedgwick Group plc.
Jim is Economics from University College London and also holds an president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland MBA in Finance.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Richard was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2012 and is Jim was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2010 and is chairman of the risk committee.
chairman of the audit committee.
Other appointments Other appointments ISG PLC senior independent non-executive director The Edinburgh Investment Trust Public Limited Company alstria Office REIT-AG supervisory board member chairman St. Modwen Properties PLC senior independent Clydesdale Bank plc chairman non-executive director Crest Nicholson Holdings plc senior independent Actis Capital senior advisor non-executive director Starr Street Limited director RBC Europe Limited deputy chairman aberdeen-asset.
com 57 Board of directors continued Val Rahmani Anne Richards Independent Non-Executive Global Chief Director Investment Officer Background and experience Background and experience Anne is Global Head of Aberdeen Solutions, Global Chief Val was formerly chief executive officer of US internet security Investment Officer and Head of the EMEA region.
Prior to software firm, Damballa and, prior to that, held a number of Aberdeen, she worked for Merrill Lynch and Edinburgh Fund senior management roles with IBM Corporation.
She graduated Managers, where she was chief investment officer and joint from Oxford University with a MA and PHD in Chemistry.
Anne graduated with first class honours in Date of appointment Electronics and Electrical Engineering from the University of Val was appointed to the Board on 3 February 2015.
Edinburgh, and has an MBA from Insead.
Anne is a member of the FCA Practitioner Panel.
"She was appointed a Commander of the Other appointments Royal Victorian Order ""CVO"" in June 2014."
Computer Task Group non-executive director Date of appointment Anne was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Other appointments The University of Edinburgh vice convener esure Group plc non-executive director CERN and Society Foundation chair The Investor Forum director Bill Rattray Jutta af Rosenborg Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Bill joined the Group in 1985 as company secretary and Jutta was formerly chief financial officer for ALK-Abello A S, subsequently became group financial controller.
Prior to a global pharmaceutical company, headquartered in Denmark joining the Group, Bill trained as a chartered accountant and a non-executive director of Carnegie WorldWide Investment with Ernst & Whinney in Aberdeen, qualifying in 1982.
Jutta has spent most of her career in finance, having Bill is a director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
originally qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte before establishing her own auditing and consulting business.
Jutta has Date of appointment a masters degree in business economics and auditing from the Bill was appointed to the Board on 31 January 1991.
Other appointments Date of appointment Curtis Banks Group plc non-executive director Jutta was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2013.
Other appointments Det Danske Klasselotteri A S chairman Auriga Industries A S deputy chairman JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc non-executive director The PGA European Tour non-executive director NKT Holdings A S non-executive director 58 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Akira Suzuki Hugh Young Non-Executive Director Managing Director Background and experience Background and experience Akira joined Aberdeen through the business and capital alliance Hugh is Global Head of Property, Fixed Income and Active Equity with Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation.
Akira has a and Managing Director of Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Bachelor of Law degree from Keio University.
He founded Singapore based Aberdeen Asia in 1992 Akira joined Mitsubishi and has undertaken a wide variety of and has been managing the Groups Asian equities since 1985. roles, primarily in asset management and is currently Managing Hugh graduated with a BA in Politics from Exeter University.
Executive Officer and is based in Tokyo.
Hugh is a director of a number of Group subsidiary companies and Aberdeen-managed investment trusts and funds boards.
Date of appointment Akira was appointed to the Board on 29 August 2013.
Date of appointment Hugh was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Other appointments AMP Capital Holdings Limited director Committees The responsibilities of the committees continue to grow in scope and complexity in response to increasing regulatory requirements.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to attend its meetings but others, such as senior management and external advisors, may be invited to attend as appropriate.
A full description of their responsibilities and terms of reference are provided on the Groups website at aberdeen-asset.
nsf InvestorRelations termsofreference Audit Nominations Risk Remuneration Innovation Roger Cornick Julie Chakraverty Andrew Laing Richard Mully Jim Pettigrew Val Rahmani Jutta af Rosenborg Simon Troughton Chairman of committee aberdeen-asset.
