Corporate governance report Details of the individual directors attendance at Board meetings Board effectiveness are shown in the table below: Summary of Board meetings The Board met eight times during the year to review financial Maximum possible Meetings performance and strategy and to follow a formal schedule of attendance attended matters reserved for its decision, which includes the setting of Roger Cornick 8 8 Group goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
The Board also held a separate strategy discussion, at which the members of the Martin Gilbert 8 8 GMB presented their proposals for the 2016 strategy.
This was Simon Troughton 8 8 followed up with regular presentations to the Board throughout Julie Chakraverty 8 8 the year.
Andrew Laing 8 8 Comprehensive board papers, comprising an agenda, formal Rod MacRae 8 8 reports and briefing papers, are sent to directors in advance of Richard Mully 8 8 each meeting.
Directors are continually updated with written and oral reports, from senior executives and external advisers.
Jim Pettigrew 8 8 Topics include the Groups business and the competitive and Val Rahmani 5 5 regulatory environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, Bill Rattray 8 8 environmental, social, governance and other relevant matters.
Anne Richards 8 8 In addition, the Board regularly receives briefings and presentations from senior executives, local management and Jutta af Rosenborg 8 8 external advisers covering a wide range of topics relevant to the Akira Suzuki 8 8 Groups business.
Relationships with shareholders During the year, the Board has continued to focus on a number of factors affecting the Group, including the macro-economic The Group communicates regularly with institutional shareholders, situation with the fall in popularity of the emerging markets, and analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual and our own equity investment performance.
The Board has received interim reports and trading updates are widely distributed to other a number of presentations on these subjects and has looked to parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance and satisfy itself that, first the process in place is appropriate and, these documents, together with copies of investor presentations, secondly, that the strategies being followed remain the correct are also made available on the website.
ones and are appropriate for the long term success of our business The Chief Executive and Finance Director report at each Board and, ultimately, the client portfolios.
meeting on investor relations and on specific discussions with The Board visits the key overseas offices to meet local major shareholders and the Board receives copies of all research management and clients, and to obtain an understanding of the published on the Group.
Investors are encouraged to attend local business environment.
The Board visited the Singapore, the Annual General Meeting AGM at which they have an Philadelphia and Frankfurt offices during the year and directors opportunity to ask questions.
also visited other overseas offices on an individual basis to meet The AGM is normally attended by all directors and the chairmen of with local management and staff.
Whilst in Singapore, several each of the Board committees are available to answer questions.
members of the Board took advantage of the location to visit the The Group continues to offer major shareholders the opportunity Sydney, Jakarta and Tokyo offices.
to meet any or all of the Chairman, the Senior Independent On each of these overseas visits, the directors have received Director, the chairman of the remuneration committee and any presentations from local and regional management on local and new directors.
regional business conditions and at desk presentations from the The Group will continue its policy of announcing the number local business teams.
of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the AGM and any other general meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
62 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Conflicts of interest The attitudes to risk agreed at Board and committee discussions The Board confirms that it has considered and authorised any are fed through to the planning processes for the individual conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with business units.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal the Groups existing procedures.
They have also implemented Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, a process specific guidelines to address any potential conflicts that may required by the UK regulator, which summarises the risk arise in the future.
The Board has specifically considered the other management framework and regulatory capital requirements of appointments held by directors, details of which are contained the Group.
This is closely linked to the Groups strategic planning in their biographies on pages 56 to 59, and has confirmed that and capital management exercises.
it believes that each is able to devote sufficient time to fulfil the Internal control duties required of them under the terms of their contracts or The risk management framework includes a sound system of letters of appointment.
internal controls that are designed to: Training and induction identify and appraise all risks related to achieving the Groups New directors appointed to the Board are provided with a formal objectives including all business, operational, reputational, and tailored induction to assist in gaining a detailed understanding financial and regulatory risks: of the Group, its activities and the regulatory and competitive manage and control risk appropriately rather than eliminate it: environment in which it operates.
The induction process includes provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material meeting with the executive directors, the members of the GMB, misstatement or loss: other senior executives and external advisers as well as receiving information from past meetings.
The Company Secretary, under be embedded within the business processes and form part of the the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for facilitating this Groups culture, which emphasises clear management induction programme, ensuring good information flow between responsibility and accountabilities: the Board, its committees and management, and assisting with respond quickly to emerging risks within the Group and the directors continuing professional development needs.
external business environment: and During the year under review, Val Rahmani joined the Board as an include procedures for reporting any control failings or independent non-executive director.
Following discussions at an weaknesses to the appropriate level of management together early stage, a tailored induction plan was provided to assist with with the details of corrective action.
her integration into the business.
This process enabled Val to gain a wider understanding of the Groups business, its people, and the A review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and markets in which it operates.
internal control systems has been carried out through the work and operations of the audit and risk committees.
The Board, its committees and each director has access to independent professional advice, if required, at the Groups The risk management committee oversees the system of controls expense, as well as to the advice and services of the within the day to day operations, meets monthly, of the Group and Company Secretary.
monitors the Groups culture, and clarity of responsibility of roles over risk areas.
The committee reports on and monitors critical Directors are also advised, at the time of their appointment, of risks, issues and high priority projects.
It serves to reconcile the key the legal and other duties and obligations arising from the role of a risks and issues identified by the business with those raised by the director of a listed company and are reminded of these duties and Groups monitoring functions.
This provides assurance to the Board obligations on a regular basis.
All directors are obliged to undertake that risks and issues are adequately escalated and managed.
a minimum of 35 hours of continuing professional development annually, of which at least 21 hours must be comprised of Membership of the committee comprises executive directors and structured learning.
senior management from all business functions.
The committee meetings are also attended by the heads of the primary control The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of oversight functions.
The roles of these functions are as follows: legal action against its directors.
the compliance team monitors compliance with regulatory Risk management requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates: The audit and risk committees support the Board in discharging the legal team is responsible for ensuring that the Group its oversight duties with regard to internal control, risk complies with statutory requirements globally: management and capital adequacy.
These committees also have responsibility for ensuring that the Group strategy is appropriate the business risk department is responsible for the management and aligned with the Boards risk appetite, as set out in a formal and oversight of operational risk: Board statement.
com 63 Corporate governance report continued the market risk team covers the risk profiles within the various investment strategies as well as the credit risk associated with the counterparties with whom Aberdeen conducts its business: and the internal audit function reviews the effectiveness of all controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of the other independent monitoring functions, or by directly auditing the controls operated by management.
The heads of business risk and market risk each report directly to the Group Head of Risk while the heads of legal and compliance report to the General Counsel.
The Group Head of Risk who, while also a director of the Group, reports to the Chief Executive and also attends and reports at meetings of the risk and the audit committees.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chief Executive as well as having unrestricted access to the chairman of the audit committee.
More information on the risk management framework and specific risks facing the Group can be found on pages 44 to 51.
64 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
