Corporate governance Audit committee The oversight of the external audit tender has been a particular focus for the committee.
Jim Pettigrew Composition e directing the audit tender process in light of UK corporate The audit committee is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
He is supported governance and EU audit directive requirements: by three independent non-executive directors, Julie Chakraverty, f reviewing managements annual report on the Groups Richard Mully and Jutta af Rosenborg.
All members served on the system of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting to committee throughout the year.
the Board on the results of this review and receiving regular The Board is satisfied that all of the committee members have updates on key risks and controls: recent and relevant financial experience to satisfy the provisions g review and approving external audit reports on CASS: of the Code, by virtue of their holding or having held various h receiving reports from the Group Head of Risk and the risk executive and non-executive roles in other financial and asset committee on relevant matters that also impact internal management institutions.
Additionally, Jim Pettigrew and controls and financial reporting: and Jutta af Rosenborg are qualified accountants.
i carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and Responsibilities noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
The committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and The audit committee has reviewed the contents of this years the appointment and remuneration of an independent external annual report and accounts and advised the Board that, in its auditor.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the scope view, the report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides and results of audit work and its cost effectiveness, and the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups independence and objectivity of the auditor.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups The committee received a number of regular reports at each arrangements on whistle blowing, ensuring that appropriate of its meetings during the year from internal audit, finance and arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise, risk.
The Groups external auditor also provided regular reports, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable both written and oral, to each of the meetings.
The committee subsequent follow up action.
The committee received regular continues to ensure that issues and matters presented to them reports from internal audit which confirmed the satisfactory are resolved in a timely manner.
operating of the whistleblowing arrangements.
As part of its function in discharging its duties to review the Report on the committees activities during the year effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, the The committee has a schedule of events which, updated regularly, committee approved, in conjunction with the risk committee, details the issues to be discussed at each meeting.
The schedule the 2014 15 Internal Controls Report which is an internally also allows for new items to be included on the agenda of any of prepared document which contains an independent opinion from the meetings.
The opinion provided is, as it was in 2014, an unqualified one.
The report is made available to During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, our clients and consultants and describes the activities and control under its terms of reference, by: procedures operating in the business in the year and is prepared in a reviewing the Groups draft 2014 financial statements and accordance with internationally recognised standards.
2015 interim results statement prior to discussion and approval by the Board, and reviewing the external auditors Significant accounting matters reports thereon: During the year, the audit committee considered key accounting matters and judgements in respect of the financial statements b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Groups relating to: accounting policies: Goodwill and intangibles impairment tests c reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the The Group has goodwill of 932.8 million and intangible assets of Groups 2015 financial statements, receiving and reviewing 553.4 million.
The majority of these balances have arisen from confirmations of auditor independence and approving the acquisitions.
terms of engagement and proposed fees for the 2015 audit: The goodwill balance is tested annually for impairment.
d reviewing the reports of the internal audit team and agreeing The intangible assets are reviewed for impairment indicators and action plans, audit schedules and areas for future reviewing, impairment tests are performed if there are indicators eg client and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: losses or an expectation that assets will be withdrawn.
com 65 Audit committee continued Re-measurement of SWIP earn-out There is a level of judgement in assessing future cash flows and The consideration for the SWIP transaction includes a potential selecting appropriate comparators that form the basis for the earn-out.
The potential liability for the earn-out is measured at fair impairment tests.
value at each reporting period.
The audit committee examined these assumptions used in the The range of payments for the earn-out is between nil and impairment tests.
They considered the impact of outflows and 100 million and is dependent on the growth of revenues from market volatility, noting that the majority of the equities business the acquired investment solutions business over the period has grown organically, rather than through acquisitions.
The flows from 1 April 2014 to March 2019.
This, in turn, relies on the from the former SWIP business are in line with expectations and future performance of the Lloyds wealth business.
This value the committee noted that the business continues to perform is determined based on expected cash flows over five years, satisfactory.
They noted the reduction in market capitalisation discounted to a present value.
The base case estimates were and sell side analyst valuations, but agreed that there remains a supplemented by an external valuation.
significant level of headroom over the back value of assets.
Management prepared a revised valuation of the earn-out at The committee, with managements input, also monitors any 30 September 2015 based on growth to date, expectations of areas of the business added through acquisition that may be market growth and knowledge of client plans and product ideas.
performing behind expectations to consider the impact on impairment testing.
The work on impairment is summarised The audit committee challenged the finance team on the key in note 13. assumptions and was satisfied that a balanced approach had been taken, given the information available and the uncertainty of how Acquisition accounting for FLAG acquisition the multi asset business may grow.
Aberdeen acquired FLAG on 31 August 2015.
Consideration includes an upfront element of 52.0 million and a potential Oversight of external auditors earn-out of up to 29.3 million.
The earn-out is dependent on The committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the future revenue growth of the business.
the external audit process performed by KPMG Audit Plc KPMG.
The review covered all aspects of the global audit The audit committee reviewed reports prepared by the finance service including, amongst other factors, the quality of the staff, team on the accounting for the consideration, noting the the expertise, the resources, and the independence of KPMG.
consistency in approach with past acquisitions.
In practice, this was covered as part of the audit tender process.
The potential liability for the earn-out is measured at fair value The committee reviews the audit plan for the year carefully and and is dependent on the growth of revenues from the acquired subsequently considers how the auditor performed to the plan.
business over the period to 31 December 2017, discounted to a They consider the quality of written and oral presentations and present value.
The base case estimates were supplemented by the strength and depth of the lead partners at key locations.
The audit committee received a copy of this report, as well as an explanation of the approach used by The committee took into consideration the levels of fees paid finance and the rationale for assumptions on launch of new funds.
for the global services provided by the auditor.
The committee The audit committee challenged the finance team on the key monitors its policy on the use of KPMG for non-audit services to assumptions and was satisfied that a balanced approach had been ensure complete clarity on the detail of services permitted and taken, given the information available and the relative stability of not permitted and those which might require the explicit prior private equity revenues.
We recognised intangible assets on acquisition in respect of the The external auditor will only be appointed to a non-audit management agreements with FLAGs clients.
The value of these engagement when they are best suited to perform the work and intangible assets was determined by the level of forecast cash there is no threat of a conflict of interest.
Permitted non-audit flows that they are expected to generate, taking into account services include the provision of tax compliance services and factors such as market growth and attrition.
A valuation report acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances, was prepared by an independent accounting firm and this provided there is no element of valuation work involved.
was reviewed by the audit committee to be satisfied that an The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction appropriate approach was taken.
services and litigation services may be permitted with the committees prior approval.
They also discussed with management the determination of useful lives over which the intangibles are amortised.
Where relevant, the The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any term period of the agreement is used as a starting point, but this other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review can be adjusted for other relevant factors.
are not permitted under any circumstance.
The auditor cannot act in a capacity as management or design a system or process that it Finally, the audit committee reviewed with finance the subsequently is required to test.
classification of acquisition-related expenses in the income statement.
They were content that the approach is consistent with other acquisitions.
Further details on the nature of these costs are disclosed in note 4.
66 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance The committee has been closely involved in monitoring the Finally, consideration was also given to the likelihood of a internal audit plan, looking to ensure that the audit scope withdrawal of the auditor from the market and, it was noted that continued to focus on all relevant areas of activity, including the there were no contractual obligations which would restrict the IT project activity and the continuing integration exercise for the choice of an alternative auditor.
The audit committee is mindful SWIP business.
There have been a small number of areas where of the services provided by each of the Big Four to Aberdeen.
the committee has requested additional information in respect of This was also considered as part of the assessment of the three matters reported, including looking to ensure that matters raised firms participating in the tender.
were resolved in a timely manner.
Audit tender In line with the timetable disclosed last year, the Group conducted The committee has also been looking at the effectiveness of a tender for the audit services in 2015.
The tender was for the internal audit reporting and a number of improvements were 2016 and subsequent audits.
The committee took into account actioned including refreshed risk categorisation for audit issues, the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, that and enhanced reporting to the audit committee.
It was also agreed the external audit contract should be put out to tender at least that there should be a greater link between audit planning and the every ten years and, KPMGs length of tenure in the role.
Following PwC effectiveness review of internal audit in 2014, all of the recommendations have been The committee agreed the process to be followed, asking each implemented ensuring that Internal Audit continues to provide a participant to tender for the provision of external audit, controls high level of service and complies with relevant standards.
assurance reporting and related regulatory reporting, including CASS reporting.
Meetings and attendance The committee operates under formal terms of reference which Each firm was invited to a number of meetings with key members are reviewed annually and held five meetings during the year, of the management team and were asked to provide a written with representatives of KPMG in attendance at each meeting.
submission against which the Group would evaluate a number of Other regular attendees at the meetings of the committee selection criteria including the ability to understand our business included the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the and demonstrate that the audit approach is tailored accordingly: Finance Director and the other members of the Board, the Group the ability to build a working relationship: the provision of a Head of Risk, the Head of Internal Audit, the Compliance Officer, capable audit team with the right mix of skills and experience: a the General Counsel and the Deputy Finance Director.
proven ability to engage and support management at an early stage in the audit process and to provide robust challenge where There is close liaison between the audit and risk committees and necessary: the provision of a clear audit approach and an ability to this facilitates an integrated approach to risk assurance.
The risk deliver insight and be proactive in key accounting areas.
committee is scheduled to hold four meetings per annum, each of which is to be held on the same days as the meetings of the audit Following the receipt of feedback after the meetings, the field was committee, in order to allow appropriate interaction between the narrowed to two firms who were each invited to meet with the two committees.
To assist in this interaction, there is a standing members of the audit committee.
The committee recommended agenda item for the meetings of the audit committee to receive an to the Board, and it was agreed, that PwC be appointed as auditors oral report from the chairman of the risk committee, providing an for the 2016 financial year.
update on matters relevant to the audit committee of those issues As a result KPMG will not be seeking reappointment as auditor considered by the risk committee.
for the financial year commencing 1 October 2015.
A resolution There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown proposing the appointment of PwC as auditor of Aberdeen in the table below: Asset Management PLC and giving authority to the directors to determine its remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming Maximum possible Meetings annual general meeting in January 2016. attendance attended Oversight of internal audit Jim Pettigrew 5 5 The Head of Internal Audit provided both a written and oral report Julie Chakraverty 5 5 at each meeting of the audit committee during the year.
The committee also approved the full operations of the internal audit Richard Mully 5 5 team, including audit plans, budgets and staffing levels.
Typically, Jutta af Rosenborg 5 5 the committee receives a detailed written report in advance of the The members of the committee also met, individually, with the meeting and this is followed by an oral presentation detailing the executive throughout the year, and this provided a forum for issues identified and the remedial action taken.
discussion outwith the formality of the five meetings held during During the year the present Head of Internal Audit tendered the year.
his resignation after serving as head of the division for 13 years.
The committee, in discussion with the Board of directors, initiated a candidate search using an external search consultant, with the current deputy stepping into the role in the interim.
