Group management board The operational management of the Group is delegated by the Board to the Group Management Board GMB which comprises the six executive directors and other heads of department.
The GMB meet three times each month, has specific terms of reference which have been approved by the Board, and has responsibility for implementing the Boards strategy.
Gordon Brough Devan Kaloo General Counsel & Deputy Group Head of Risk Head of Global Emerging Markets and Head of Equities Gordon joined Aberdeen in February 2009 to head up the Groups Devan joined Aberdeen in 2000 as part of the Asian equities team legal function having previously been the partner responsible in Singapore, before later transferring to London.
Previously, for the Groups affairs at Maclay Murray & Spens LLP.
Gordon is he worked at Martin Currie in 1994 covering Latin America, qualified as a lawyer in both Scots and English law.
subsequently working with North American equities, global asset allocation and eventually Asian equities teams.
Devan graduated Kerry Christie with an MA Hons in Management and International Relations Global Head of Human Resources from the University of St Andrews and a postgraduate diploma in Kerry is Global Head of Human Resources and was appointed to Investment Analysis from the University of Stirling.
She joined Aberdeen in March 2000 and was Jonathan Loukes appointed Head of Human Resources in October 2003.
Kerry graduated from Robert Gordon University with a Deputy Finance Director BA in Public Administration and a postgraduate diploma in Jonathan joined Aberdeen in 2010 from Deloitte where he held Personnel Management.
senior roles in corporate finance and audit.
Jonathan graduated with an LLM from Glasgow University and an MBA from Brad Crombie Manchester Business School.
He is also a chartered accountant.
Global Head of Fixed Income Gary Marshall Brad re-joined Aberdeen in 2012 after starting in the Groups graduate trainee programme twelve years ago.
In the interim, Head of Product he worked at Bank of America Merrill Lynch as a managing Gary joined Aberdeen as Head of Sales and Marketing through director, running the banks non-financial corporate and high yield the acquisition of Prolific Financial Management in 1997. credit research team for the EMEA region.
He graduated from Since then he has worked in many areas of the business: including McGill University with BA and MA degrees and read history at a period as Head of the Americas based in the US for nearly five the University of Cambridge.
Gary currently serves as Chief Executive of Aberdeen Fund Managers Ltd, the Groups primary fund management entity in Ken Fry the UK.
Gary graduated with a BSc Hons in Actuarial Chief Operating Officer Mathematics and Statistics from Heriot Watt University Ken graduated from the University of Essex with a BA in Computer in Edinburgh and is a qualified actuary.
Science and joined Aberdeen with the acquisition of Fredericks Andrew McCaffery Place Holdings in 1989 as Group IT Manager.
He was appointed to the GMB in 2006 as Chief Technology Officer and to his current Global Head of Alternatives role in 2008.
Andrew is responsible for our alternative capabilities including hedge funds, private equity, infrastructure and property multi Bev Hendry manager.
Andrew joined Aberdeen in 2011 from BlueCrest Capital Co-Head of Americas and Chief Financial Officer Management, where he was a founder member of the Alignment Bev was appointed Co-Head of Americas and Chief Financial Investors division.
Andrew joined the investment industry in 1983.
He first joined Aberdeen in 1987 and helped establish Aberdeens business in the Americas.
Bev re-joined Aberdeen from Hansberger Global Investors where he has worked for six years as Chief Operating Officer.
Bev is a chartered accountant and graduated with an MA in Economics from the University of Aberdeen.
60 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Sean Phayre Andrew Smith Global Head of Quantitative Investments Co-Head of Americas and Chief Operating Officer Sean joined the Group in 2014 as part of SWIP heritage.
He began Andrew is the Co-Head of Americas and Chief Operating Officer.
his investment career at Edinburgh Fund Managers which was He held various roles since he joined Aberdeen in December 2000 later acquired by Aberdeen Asset Management.
He established including Chief Financial Officer for Aberdeen in the Americas.
quantitative investment teams at both companies, and latterly Andrew attended Glasgow University.
was co-head of quantitative equities and derivative strategies.
Archie Struthers Sean holds a PhD in Statistics and Modelling Science, an MSc Global Head of Multi asset in Industrial Mathematics and a BSc Hons in Mathematical Archie joined Aberdeen to lead multi asset in April 2014 having Sciences, all from the University of Strathclyde.
previously developed SWIPs equivalent business.
Prior to SWIP, Mandy Pike Archie developed the multi asset client solutions business at BlackRock which he joined in 2006 via their acquisition of Merrill Global Head of Dealing Lynch Investment Managers.
He has an MA Hons in English Mandy is the Global Head of Dealing, covering all listed securities, Literature from the University of Edinburgh.
including equities, fixed interest, cash, FX and derivatives.
Previously, Mandy worked as a trader at F&C Asset Management, Pertti Vanhanen and before that at BNP Capital Markets.
Her City career began at Global Head of Property Grieveson Grant in the private client department.
Pertti has been managing director for property asset management Iain Plunkett subsidiaries for both Pension Ilmarinen and Pension Varma in Chief Technology Officer Finland.
Since he joined Aberdeen in 2002, Pertti has headed Iain joined Aberdeen from Barclays in 2015 where he was a the Nordic and European direct property business and has later managing director & member of the Senior Leadership Group.
become the Head of Fund management Property division.
Previously, he worked for 15 years at UBS as Group Managing Pertti holds an MBA and is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Director performing the role of Global Chief Information Officer of Chartered Surveyors.
the Investment Bank and Corporate Centre.
Iain graduated with a BEng in Information Engineering from Strathclyde University.
