Report of the Group Risk Committee Statement from Jean Park, Chair of the Group Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, The responsibilities of the Committee can be summarised as: Having now implemented the Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF and thereby improved the understanding of risks at a Group level the Committee has focused during the year on developing the Boards risk Oversee the development, implementation and maintenance strategy and risk appetite with greater granularity.
Risk Owners have agreed a of the Groups overall Risk Management Framework and refreshed suite of Key Risk Indicators with associated triggers and limits.
This ensure that it is in line with emerging regulatory, corporate has improved the effectiveness of the Committee by placing greater focus on the main risks affecting the business.
governance and best practice guidelines A significant amount of time has been dedicated to achieving compliance Monitoring the Groups prudential risk exposure, which with the Solvency II requirements which have been introduced in January 2016, includes ensuring that the Groups capital resources and in particular, the application for the Groups regulatory capital add-on.
The Committee has also reviewed the Groups proposed dividend level, capital liquidity profile are appropriate to its needs whilst meeting plan and capital buffer in line with the capital policy.
minimum regulatory requirements, including overseeing The Committee challenged and reviewed the setting of and outputs from and challenging the design and execution of the Groups the regular stress and scenario testing and reverse stress testing.
The output stress and scenario testing was incorporated into the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA report for 2015, which the Committee also reviewed.
Monitoring the Groups current and future conduct Regular reports have been received on the risks and progress of the major change riskexposure programme responsible for the implementation of a new policy administration Ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups system and data warehouse, known as Project Bolt.
The first phase of the programme was successfully implemented in December 2015. systems and controls for the prevention of financial crime The focus on monitoring and reporting customer outcome risks continued and data protection during the year and included the introduction of Group minimum compliance Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups standards, which introduces the levels of compliance resources and monitoring levels that all Group firms must apply to their respective regulatory obligations.
Compliance functions The composition of the Committee was strengthened by the addition of Reviewing the Groups progress towards achieving Manning Rountree who joined as a member of the Committee in June 2015.
Solvency II compliance I look forward to continuing the good work this year.
Reviewing compliance with Group policies, including the Jean Park established Reserving Policy and process Chair of the Group Risk Committee 2 March 2016 Considering and recommending to the Board for approval the Groups risk appetite, including any changes to the appetite for each material type of risk faced by the Group Approving the annual plans for the Group Risk and Compliance functions which include reviewing regulatory developments and regular meetings with the PRA andFCA The Committee challenged and reviewed the setting of and outputs from the regular stress andscenario testing and reverse Jean Park stress testing.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 52 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Summary of key activities during 2015 During the year the Committee: Reviewed the Groups updated risk strategy, risk appetite and associated triggers and limits in the context of the Groups agreed strategic objectives.
Reviewed the Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework and received external assurance on the successful implementation of the updated framework in line with Solvency II requirements.
Reviewed the Groups proposed dividend level, capital plan and capital buffer in line with the capital policy.
Reviewed the Groups regulatory capital add-on application in preparation for the introduction of Solvency II capital requirements.
Through stress and scenario testing and reverse stress testing, considered in-depth analysis of a number of the Groups most significant risk areas, including the potential default of a reinsurer.
Considered the adequacy of risk mitigation measures and contingency plans including a review of the Groups reinsurance provisions.
Monitored the Groups progress towards implementation of Solvency II including approval of a number of new and revised policies.
Recommended to the Board approval of the 2015 ORSA Report prior to submission to the regulator and approved the ORSA policy.
Reviewed the executive succession planning processes.
Considered the provisions of the Senior Insurance Managers Regime and approved the Groups approach.
Reviewed a number of new product propositions.
Received regular updates on IT Security and presentations on a number of key risk topics including cyber risk, investments and liquidity.
Reviewed regular reports on the risks and progress of the major change programme responsible for the implementation of a new policy administration system and data warehouse, known as Project Bolt.
Received regular risk monitoring reports on performance of Key Risk Indicators within the overall risk managementframework.
Received regular monitoring reports on UK conduct risk and complaint handling and approved the introduction ofGroup minimum compliance standards.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 53 Report of the Group Risk Committee continued Composition of the Group Risk Committee GRC The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Membership at the end of the year was: JeanPark Chair, Annette Court, and managing the Groups risks and internal controls: that it has been in LucyKellaway, Manning Rountree and David Stevens.
The Company Secretary place for the year ended 31 December 2015: and that, up to the date of acts as Secretary to the Committee.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for Directors provided The Committee met six times during the year.
in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Group Risk Committee attendance 6 meetings The Board confirms that it has performed a robust assessment of the Groups Jean Park principal risks.
These risks, along with explanations of how they are being managed and mitigated, are included in the Strategic Report on pages 34 to 37.
Annette Court Lucy Kellaway The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal Manning Rountree risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board meets at least seven times a year to discuss the direction of the Company and provide David Stevens oversight of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Therole and responsibilities of the Board are documented within their Chair Member Did not attend Termsof Reference and these are reviewed annually.
Manning Rountree was appointed to the Board with effect from 16 June 2015.
A key element of the control system is that the Board meets regularly with aformal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has put in place Duties and responsibilities of the Group Risk Committee an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility.
As described The duties and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in Terms of above, in order to ensure these responsibilities are properly discharged, the Reference that were approved by the Board in January 2013 and updated Board has delegated to the Audit Committee to keep under review the and approved in January 2015. adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls, internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee Chair reports formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting on all matters within its duties and responsibilities, as set out The Board has delegated the development, implementation and maintenance in previously circulated minutes to the Board.
The Committee Chairperson of the Groups overall risk management framework to the Group Risk Committee also reports on the activities of the Committee in a formal written report GRC.
The GRC reports on its activities to the Board and the Audit Committee, thatis submitted to and discussed by the Board every six months.
supporting the overall assurance provided by the Audit Committee that the Groups internal control, risk management and compliance systems continue The work of the Committee is supported by more detailed work undertaken to operate effectively.
by executive Risk Management Committees in each of the Groups operational entities.
At each meeting, the Risk Management Committees consider The Group has a three lines of defence approach to Internal Control.
significant movements in the operations risk profile, any risks that have TheBoard recognises that the day-to-day responsibility for implementing arisen and any emerging risks.
Risk Management Committees also assess policies lies with the senior management, the first line of defence, whose and monitor any regulatory issues, ensuring that their resolution and the operational decisions must take into account risk and how this can be action taken are appropriately recorded.
In the UK, the Risk Management controlled effectively.
Committee receives regular information on Conduct Risk, such as complaint The second line of defence describes the Committees and functions that handling reports and other related management information.
The Group are in place to provide an oversight of the effective operation of the internal Risk Management function reviews and collates information from across the control framework.
The Group Risk Department and the Compliance functions Group for consideration by the Group Risk Committee.
are part of the second line of defence.
Internal control and risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control and, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of this system.
The system of risk management and internal control over insurance, operational, market, legal and regulatory risks is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and breaches of risk appetites and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 54 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Group Risk Department defines and prescribes the insurance, market Viability and operational risk assessment processes for the business.
It performs In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the second line reviews, including of the reserving and capital modelling processes, Directors have assessed the prospect of the Company over a longer period and undertakes regular reviews of all risks in conjunction with management, than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The Board with the results of these reviews recorded in risk registers.
Furthermore, conducted this review for a period of three years to December 2018.
This Group Risk records any actual losses or near misses that occur as a consequence assessment has been made taking into account the current financial of the crystallisation of risk and analyses the sufficiency of the action taken position of the Group, the Groups business plans, the Groups Own Risk to avoid reoccurrence.
The Chief Risk Officer has responsibility for ensuring and Solvency Assessment ORSA process, and the principal risks and that managers are aware of their risk management obligations, providing uncertainties faced by the Group, which are disclosed on page 34 to 37 them with support and advice, and ensuring that risk management strategies ofthe Strategic Report.
Reports are produced showing the most significant The ORSA is performed in line with Solvency II regulations and requires the risks identified and the controls in place.
Internal Audit uses the risk registers Group to demonstrate that it has a detailed understanding of the risks facing to plan and inform their programme of audits around the most significant the business over a three-year time horizon.
In addition to this the Group risks to the Group to ensure that the prescribed controls are in place and are Risk Committee and the Group Board review regular updates to the Groups operating effectively.
There is Compliance resource assigned to each operation who review and Quantitative and qualitative assessments of risks are performed as part of report on the first line of defences compliance with designated control activities.
The quantitative assessment in line with the Groups capital The Group Compliance function consolidates these reviews and provides and solvency projections considers how the regulatory capital requirements, reports to the Group Risk Committee.
economic capital needs, own funds and the solvency position of the The third line of defence describes the independent assurance provided by Company is projected to change over the three year time horizon.
It also the Audit Committee and the Group Internal Audit function that reports to includes a series of stress tests, linked to the Groups principal risks and that Committee.
Internal Audit undertakes a programme of risk based audits reports the impact of these stresses alongside any mitigating factors that covering all aspects of both the first and second lines of defence.
The findings reduce the impact.
from these audits are reported to all three lines, i. e. management, the executive The results of the stress tests form part of the process to set the Groups and oversight Committees, and the Audit Committee.
capital risk appetite, which ensures that a buffer on top of the Groups The GRC, UK Risk Management Committee and other UK and overseas regulatory capital requirement is held to protect its capital position against RiskCommittees receive reports setting out key performance and risk shocks and stresses.
indicators and consider possible control issues brought to their attention Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable byearly warning mechanisms that are embedded within the operational expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation units.
They, together with the Audit Committee, also receive regular reports andmeet its liabilities as they fall due over this three year period.
from the Internal Audit function, which include recommendations for improvement of the control and operational environment.
Twice a year theChair of the GRC provides a comprehensive written report to the Board of the activities carried out by GRC.
In addition, the Board receives reports from the Chair of the Audit Committee as to its activities, together with copies of the minutes of the GRC and Audit Committee.
The Audit Committees ability to provide the appropriate assurance to the Board depends on the provision of periodic and independent confirmation, primarily by Internal Audit, that the controls established by management are operating effectively and where necessary provides a high-level challenge to the steps being taken by the GRC to implement the risk management strategy.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 55
