Report of the Audit Committee Statement from Colin Holmes, Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to: Dear Shareholder, Im pleased to provide an update on the main activities of Admirals Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements AuditCommittee during 2015. and any formal announcement relating to the Groups The key areas of focus for the Committee during the year have been to provide financial performance, reviewing any significant financial support to the Board in its oversight of financial reporting and the control environment across the Group.
The setting of insurance claims reserves continues reporting judgements which they contain to be a key accounting judgement in the Groups financial statements, and the Committee placed considerable focus on reviewing the recommendations Keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys of management and discussing the key reserving judgements with the Groups internal financial controls, internal control and risk independent actuaries and external auditor.
In addition, the Committee continued management systems to monitor the appropriateness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control as well as the robustness of the internal and external Review the Groups procedures for handling allegations audit processes.
from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud The Committee studied a number of control issues, highlighted through a range of different sources including the Risk Register, Internal Audit and the Monitor and assess the role and effectiveness of the Groups Committees previous work.
One significant focus during the year was on the Internal Audit functions in the context of the Groups area of IT Security and Control, in part due to the major project to transfer the overall internal control and risk management systems UK business onto a new bespoke software system.
The Committee will remain focused on this issue during 2016 as the transfer of active business tothe new Consider and make recommendations to the Board, software platform occurs across the year.
On the issue of IT Security the tobeput to shareholders for their approval at the AGM, Committee sought assurance from the Head of IT Security that the action plan to mitigate against cyber risks remained appropriate and, given the inrelation to the appointment, reappointment and seriousness of the threat posed to the business from cyber risks, that removal of the Groups external auditor actionsand recommendations were being dealt with in a timely manner.
Review the external auditors independence and objectivity Consideration of the implementation of Solvency II and the impact this and the effectiveness of the audit process would have on the Group took up a considerable amount of the Committees time in 2015 as the Committees considered the Groups reporting requirements Review the policy on the engagement of the external under the Solvency II regime.
The Committee also received an update on the adoption of IFRIC 21 and continued to monitor changes in accounting standards.
auditor to provide non-audit services, considering the relevant regulatory guidance regarding the provision During the year the Committee led the tender process for the Groups external audit, which resulted in a recommendation that Deloitte LLP should be ofnon-audit services by the external auditor recommended to shareholders as the Groups auditor at the 2016 AGM.
Overthe last 16 years KPMG LLP have undertaken an effective and value adding external audit for the Group and I would like to express the Committees thanks to all the KPMG staff involved.
Within the Committee itself we welcomed Penny James as a member in early 2015 and Owen Clarke in January of this year.
Both of these appointments have added to the strength and breadth of the Audit Committee.
At the AGM Margaret Johnson steps down from the Board and this Committee and Iwould like to thank her for her huge contribution over the last nine years.
Ihope you find the above summary, and the more detailed report, both useful and informative.
Colin Holmes Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 March 2016 Consideration of the implementation of Solvency II and the impact this would have on the Group took up a considerable amount of the Committees time in 2015 asthe Committee considered the Groups reporting requirements Colin Holmes under the Solvency II regime.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 48 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Summary of key activities during 2015 During the year the Committee reviewed the following: The Annual Report and interim results.
Reports from the Internal Audit departments within the Group on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control procedures, details of key audit findings, and actions taken by management to manage and reduce the impact of the risks identified.
Reports from the external auditor on the principal findings from their review of the Groups systems and controls, and on their key accounting and audit issues and conclusions on the half and full year reporting.
Reports from the Chair of the Group Risk Committee on the principal risks faced by the Group and the work undertaken by the Committee to ensure risk is appropriately managed.
Presentations from independent actuaries to assist the Committee in concluding on the adequacy of the Groupsreserves.
Reports from the external auditor on their proposed audit scope, fees, audit findings, and auditor independence.
Proposals from invited external audit firms as part of the audit tender process.
Performance and effectiveness of the Internal Audit department including review of the results of the external effectiveness review of Internal Audit.
All reports from Internal Audit including management responses to the conclusions set out in the reports.
Reports and updates on the project and financial controls of the new UK IT system.
The effectiveness of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy which sets out the arrangements for raising and handling allegations from whistle blowers.
The Committee also had presentations and discussions on a range of important issues including: IT Security, deferred tax assets and Solvency II preparatory phase reporting requirements.
Its own Terms of Reference.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 49 Report of the Audit Committee continued Membership of likelihood, to cover any liabilities that can be reasonably assumed to arise from business earned up to the valuation date.
The approach is to ensure Audit Committee attendance 7 meetings that an appropriate margin is provided above actuarial best estimates to Colin Holmes allow for uncertainty and volatility.
Annette Court The Committee held separate meetings with the Groups external actuaries Penny James at which there was challenge and debate on the methodology used and best estimates developed by the external actuaries and recommended for adoption Margaret Johnson by management and the Groups internal actuary.
At these meetings management Chair Member Did not attend provided further information on the reserving levels proposed and were challenged by the Committee as to their adequacy and level of inherent prudence.
Whilst acknowledging that the setting of reserves to cover future claims Membership of the Committee at the end of the year was: Colin Holmes Chair, isacomplex and judgemental area and having had the opportunity at the Annette Court, Penny James and Margaret Johnson.
The Committee has been separate meetings referred to above to consider and question the recommended strengthened by the addition of Owen Clarke who joined the Committee with best estimates, the Committee is satisfied that an appropriate process has effect from 1January 2016 and ensures that with Margaret Johnson stepping been followed and that there has been scrutiny, challenge and debate to down from the Board in April, the composition of the Committee remains give confidence that the reserving levels set provide an appropriate margin well balanced.
Committee members continue to have a broad range of financial above best estimates, though noted the continued high level of prudence and business experience such that they are able to effectively analyse, that remains within the reserves.
challenge and debate the issues that fall within the Committees remit.
The Committee also received an update from the auditor regarding the procedures The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee they had used to test managements methodology in setting best estimates meets at least four times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the and considered the auditors assertion that they had challenged the reserving Companys financial calendar and other important issues that arise throughout approach taken by management and were satisfied with managements the year which fall for consideration by the Committee under its remit.
assumptions and that the Groups approach to setting reserves was in compliance with current accounting standards.
The Board considers that the members of the Committee have the appropriate competence and experience necessary to contribute meaningfully to the Committees deliberations and further considers that Colin Holmes Committee Profit commission Chair, as a Chartered Management Accountant, has appropriate recent and The Committee considered the impact on profit commission income of future relevant financial experience having previously been the UK Finance Director changes in claims reserves as the recognition of this income is dependent on the for Tesco plc.
loss ratio booked in the financial statements and cash receivable is dependent on actuarial projections of ultimate loss ratios.
The Committee remained The Committee is kept up to date with changes to Accounting Standards satisfied that profit commission was correctly accounted for by the Group and relevant developments in financial reporting, company law, and the various and was in accordance with the contractual arrangements that were in place.
regulatory frameworks through presentations from the Groups external auditor, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary.
In addition, members The Audit Committee considered the auditors overall findings on this area attend relevant seminars and conferences provided by external bodies.
which indicated that it considered the profit commission recognised was TheTerms of Reference of the Audit Committee include all the matters appropriate in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
Recognition of intra-group trading Other individuals such as the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, The Committee considered and reviewed the accounting treatment, relating Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, the Chief Risk Officer, Heads to intra-group trading.
In previous years, the auditor had continued to report of Compliance and Internal Audit, and representatives of different parts an unadjusted difference in relation to intra-group trading between the Groups ofthe Group may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting as and insurance and price comparison businesses and management had opted when appropriate.
The external auditor was invited to attend all of the not to make the elimination adjustments on the basis that the impact Committees meetings held in 2015, excepting those agenda items when wasimmaterial.
itsown performance appointment was to be reviewed and provision of non-audit services discussed.
In addition, a number of private meetings However for 2015, management have determined that an adjustment for the were held between members of the Committee and the auditor.
elimination of the intra-group trading should be made within the financial statements.
This change in approach was proposed on the basis that the Significant issues considered by the Committee materiality of the adjustment of the individual revenue and expense captions After discussion with both management and the external auditor, the Audit within the income statement was increasing due to the trading between the Committee determined that the key risks of misstatement of the Groups Groups international price comparison entities and the respective insurance financial statements related to: insurance liabilities: profit commissions: operations in those countries.
KPMG had confirmed that they were satisfied andthe valuation of deferred tax assets.
that the proposed treatment was appropriate.
These issues were discussed with management during the year and with the The Committee fully considered and challenged management on the change auditor at the time the Committee reviewed and agreed the auditors Group in approach proposed.
Following comprehensive review, the Committee audit plan: when the auditor reviewed the interim financial statements in confirmed its acceptance of managements position on the basis that August 2015 and also at the conclusion of the audit of these full year accounting for intra-group trading in this way had no profit impact and financial statements.
thatexplanatory footnotes would be added to the financial statements.
Insurance liabilities Valuation of deferred tax assets The Audit Committee considered the provision for claims outstanding comprising The Group has both recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred but unpaid as of tax losses within its US businesses.
There is significant judgement involved at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not.
The Board has approved in assessing the probability of realising future taxable profits when operations a Reserving Policy that sets out the methodology by which management are not yet fully established and are currently loss making, and inherent uncertainty sets reserves in the financial statements that are sufficient, to a high degree involved in forecasting future taxable profits, which determine the extent to which deferred tax assets are or are not recognised.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 50 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Valuation of deferred tax assets continued Effectiveness of the external audit process The Committee had considered the approach proposed by management in The Committee undertakes an annual review to assess the independence determining the value of these deferred tax assets in the Groups balance sheet.
and objectivity of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process, It was noted that the probability of the availability of future taxable profits had taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements, the been formalised in a policy and was determined by a combination of the progress achieved against the agreed audit plan, and the competence with classification of the status of the businesses holding cumulative tax losses which the auditor handled the key accounting and audit judgements.
Following andthe business plan profit projections for that business.
The policy used by this review the Committee concluded that the auditor, KPMG LLP, remained management classified the Groups businesses as either: a start up business: independent and provided a service that was robust and fit for purpose.
anew business or an established business and used relevant criteria such as markets and performance against KPIs to assess the status of each business.
Audit tender As confirmed in this report last year, given the requirements of the UK Corporate During 2015, management had also proposed that for new businesses, an Governance Code and changes to the EU regulatory framework, the audit for the additional stress test to assess the impact of delayed profitability should be year ended 31 December 2016 was put out to tender in 2015.
Applying the policy, management proposed that, in relation to has primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board compare.
com, as managements level of confidence in the long-term objectives concerning the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external of the business continues to be high it was appropriate to continue to hold auditor, the Committee led the tender process.
The Groups auditor, KPMG LLP, an asset in relation to 27 million of losses.
For Elephant, management was invited to tender together with Deloitte LLP and  LLP.
proposed that, although managements level of confidence in the future The tender process involved: the three firms being identified as having the profitability of the business continued to remain high, the application of the right level of experience and resource submitting a formal invitation to tender policy leads to the reversal of the existing deferred tax asset and considered document: each firm had individual meetings with key members of management this to be an appropriately prudent outcome with respect to deferred tax and the Chair ofthe Audit Committee: and a final presentation to the Committee asset recognition.
Given the size of the total deferred tax asset in relation was made by each of the tendering firms focusing on the Groups key business toUS losses at 31December 2015, KPMG have concluded that it is not a risks and their proposed audit approach.
significant risk in terms of being potentially misstated and are satisfied that the deferred tax asset has been calculated by management in line with Following completion of the transparent and independent audit tender process Admirals deferred tax accounting policy.
and on the recommendation of the Committee, the Board approved that, Deloitte LLP should be recommended to shareholders as the Groups The Committee challenged management on the application of managements auditor at the 2016 AGM.
A resolution to that effect will be proposed at the deferred tax accounting policy and agreed with the approach proposed AGM.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of bymanagement.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the auditor appointment as the regulatory changes in this area continue to evolve.
Misstatements An adjusted audit difference was reported in relation to the intra-group Internal audit trading issue reported above but no unadjusted audit differences were The Group Head of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee meetings and reported.
The Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the auditor has provides a range of presentations and papers to the Committee, through which fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
the Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management and consulting The Committee reviewed and approved the Group Internal Audit Terms of where necessary with the auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the financial Reference which set out the role: objectives: reporting lines and accountability: statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates authority: independence: and objectivity of the Internal Audit function.
both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is Therole and competence of each Internal Audit function across the Group also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the value was also assessed and considered by the Committee.
It was agreed that the of assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and Group Head of Internal Audit would have increased responsibility to ensure are sufficiently robust.
the quality of the Internal Audit activities in the Groups overseas locations.
Members of the Committee also receive all issued audit reports, enabling them Non-audit fees to challenge the reports content and related recommendations.
The Committee During the year the Committee reviewed its policy on non-audit services in approves the Internal Audit programmes at the start of each calendar year the context of EU Audit Reforms, and consultations issued by The Department whilst the effectiveness and workload of the Internal Audit functions and for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS and the Financial Reporting Council theadequacy of available resources are monitored throughout the year.
Given the proposed changes in this area, the Committee approved, in February 2016, a revised Policy that was aligned with current regulatory guidance.
In accordance with agreed parameters, the overseas operations in Spain, Italy Under the policy, the Groups statutory auditor would only be engaged to and the US have their own locally based internal auditors, who report to their carry out non-audit work in exceptional circumstances or where there was a respective country heads.
All reports are evaluated by the Group Head of regulatory or tax authority request and where agreed by the Committee.
Internal Audit to ensure the quality and effectiveness of the reported findings.
In addition, the UK Internal Audit department carries out high level governance Unless required by law, regulatory or tax authority, from 2016, any non-audit reviews of all foreign operations, assessing the internal control frameworks services will: a be subject to prior approval from the Committee and b in and system of risk management.
The overseas internal auditors attend aggregate, shall not cost more than 70% of the average statutory audit fee Committee meetings periodically.
for the past three financial years.
In considering whether to approve such non-audit services, the Committee shall ensure that: Committee effectiveness review There is no direct effect, or the effect is clearly inconsequential, on the As part of the Committees detailed annual review of its performance and non-audit services on the Groups financial statements: processes, each Committee member completed a comprehensive questionnaire designed to provide objective assessment of the Committees performance, The estimation of the effect on the financial statements is documented including its effectiveness in monitoring internal and external audit.
The Committee and explained in a report to the Committee: discussed the results of the review and it was concluded that the Committee The non-audit services provided comply with the principle of independence:and and the audit process were effective: that the Committee had fullaccess to all the information it required: that the Committee had appropriate Terms The audit firm must not place significant reliance on the output of the ofReference: and that it was adequately discharging itsresponsibilities.
non-audit services for the audit work.
The Committee will continue to monitor regulatory developments in this area to ensure that its policy on non-audit fees adheres to current guidance.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 51
