Board of Directors Extensive experience in the direct insurance industry Alastair Lyons, CBE 62 Henry Engelhardt, CBE 58 David Stevens, CBE 54 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer NC GRC Appointed in 2000 Appointed in 1999 Appointed in 1999 Current appointments Background and experience Current appointments Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group plc Trustee of the Waterloo Foundation recruited by the Brockbank Group in 1991 to set Background and experience up the Admiral business.
Background and experience In his executive career Alastair was Chief David is a founder Director of Admiral and was Prior to joining Admiral, Henry was the original Executive Officer CEO of the National Provident recruited in 1991 to set up the Admiral business.
Marketing and Sales Manager for Churchill Insurance.
Institution and of the National & Provincial Building Prior to joining Admiral David worked at McKinsey Henry has an MBA from INSEAD, a BA from the Society, Managing Director of the Insurance Division &Company, in the Financial Interest Group, and University of Michigan and was awarded an honorary of Abbey National plc and Director of Corporate Cadbury Schweppes in the UK and the USA.
CBE in 2008 for services to business in Wales.
Projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
He David has an MBA from INSEAD and he was has held numerous non-executive roles in both Henry has twice been the recipient of the Sunday awarded a CBE in 2010 for services to business private equity and public markets.
Times Best Leader for Big Companies award.
He has also been a Non-Executive Director of both the Department for Transport DfT and the Department for Work and Pensions DWP, as well as of its predecessor, the Department of Health andSocial Security DHSS.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, he was awarded a CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Colin Holmes 50 Penny James 46 Margaret Johnson, OBE 57 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director AC NC AC AC RC Appointed in 2010 Appointed in 2015 Appointed in 2006 Current appointments Current appointments Current appointments Chairman of GO Outdoors Ltd Group Chief Risk Officer at Prudential Group CEO of Leagas Delaney andmember of the Prudential plc Board Chairman of the British Heart Foundation Background and experience RetailCommittee Margaret has worked for the international advertising Background and experience Member of the Chartered Institute of agency Leagas Delaney for the past 17 years.
Penny was previously Director of Group Finance at  Advisory Panel Prudential plc from March 2011 until September2015.
Margaret was awarded an OBE in 2013 in recognition of her services to the creative Her previous appointments include being Chief Background and experience industries and her voluntary work for charities.
Finance Officer of Omega Insurance Holdings and UK Colin was previously a member of the Executive General Insurance CFO of Zurich FinancialServices.
Committee of Tesco plc and during his 22 year career at Tesco held a wide range of positions, including UKFinance Director and CEO of Tesco Express.
Until2014 Colin was a Non-Executive Director at Bovis Homes Group plc where he chaired the Remuneration Committee.
Colin is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 42 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Committee membership key AC RC Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member GRC Group Risk Committee member Committee Chair NC Nomination Committee member Senior Independent Director Geraint Jones 39 Owen Clarke 52 Annette Court 53 Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director AC RC AC GRC Appointed in 2014 Appointed in 2015 Appointed in 2012 Background and experience Current appointments Current appointments Geraint is responsible for finance, actuarial, Chief Investment Officer of Equistone Partners Non-Executive Director of Jardine Lloyd compliance and investments.
He joined Admiral in Europe formerly Barclays Private Equity, BPE Thompson Group plc 2002 and held a number of senior finance positions Non-Executive Director of Foxtons plc including Head of Finance, before being promoted Background and experience to Deputy Chief Financial Officer in January 2012 Non-Executive Director of Workshare Previous Director of Admiral 19992004.
Led and Chief Financial Officer in August 2014.
BPEsparticipation in the management buy out.
Chairman of the Dining Club A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Background and experience in England and Wales, Geraint spent the early part Between 2007 and 2010 Annette was CEO of Europe of his career as an external auditor at Ernst & Young General Insurance for Zurich Financial Services and and KPMG.
amember of the Group Executive Committee.
Annette is former CEO of the Direct Line Group.
In this role Annette was also a member of the RBS Group Executive Management Committee.
Annette has previously served as a member on the Board of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
Lucy Kellaway 56 Jean Park 61 Manning Rountree 43 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director NC GRC GRC RC GRC Appointed in 2006 Appointed in 2014 Appointed in 2015 Current appointments Current appointments Current appointments Lucy is a management columnist for the Non-Executive Director of Murray Income Trust plc Managing Director of White Mountains Capital Inc. FinancialTimes White Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd. since Non-Executive Director of the National House March2009 Building Council Background and experience In her 30 years at the Financial Times Lucy has Background and experience Background and experience beenan oil correspondent, a Lex columnist and Manning joined White Mountains in 2004 Jean was Group Chief Risk Officer at the Phoenix Brussels correspondent.
andistheformer President of WM Advisors.
Previously, she was Risk Management Director of the Insurance Lucy has authored various books.
Prior to joining White Mountains, Manning and Investments division of Lloyds TSB and, spenttwoyears with Putnam Investments before that, Head of Compliance and Audit at and three years with McKinsey & Company.
Jean is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 43
