Governance report Leadership and effectiveness The role of the Board The annual review of its own performance and that of its Board Committees.
The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group providing Annual review of the Groups Board policies.
entrepreneurial leadership, both directly and through its Committees, and delegating authority to the Executive team.
The Board is responsible for The review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
organising and directing the affairs of the Group in a manner that is most likely to promote its success for the benefit of its members as a whole.
The Board activity during 2015 Board is accountable to shareholders for setting and achieving the Groups At each scheduled meeting the Board receives updates from the Chief Executive, strategic objectives: for the creation and delivery of strong sustainable Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer as to the financial and financial and operational performance: for ensuring that in carrying out its operational performance of the Group and any specific developments in the duties the Groups legal and regulatory obligations are being met: and for areas of the business for which they are directly responsible and of which the ensuring that it operates within appropriately established risk parameters.
Items that are considered on an annual basis are The Groups UK regulated entities are responsible to the Financial Conduct included in an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that they Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA for ensuring areconsidered at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
compliance with the Groups UK regulatory obligations and that dealings Meetings are structured so as to allow for consideration and debate of all with the FCA and PRA are handled in a constructive, co-operative and matters.
Mindful of the need to ensure effective Director succession through transparent manner.
Similar provisions apply in respect of the Groups senior managers below Board level having exposure to and gaining experience international businesses with regard to the relevant regulatory authorities of the operation of the Board, the heads of the Groups US and Italian direct inthose overseas jurisdictions in which the Group also operates.
insurance businesses and the head of UK Motor respectively Kevin Chidwick, Milena Mondini and Cristina Nestares were invited to attend every Board The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards meeting and Board dinner.
This is monitored by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Specific matters reserved to the Board include The Board met on seven occasions in 2015 with six of these meetings being the approval of: held over two days.
The Groups long term objectives and corporate strategy.
In addition to the regular consideration of financial and operating performance and risk management and compliance, the Board received presentations on Operating and capital budgets, financial results, and any significant a variety of topics including updates from the management teams of each of changes to accounting practices or policies.
the Groups businesses and regular reviews of progress implementing Solvency II.
In addition to his visits to the Groups UK operations, the Chairman seeks Results and financial reporting.
tovisit each of the Groups overseas operations every year and Non-Executive Directors are invited to join either him or the Chief Executive on one or more The system of internal control and risk management.
of their overseas visits each year.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors and The Groups overall risk appetite.
the Chairman met during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
In order to increase their understanding of the depth and breadth of management Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, including across the Group below Board level, the Non-Executive Directors and the newappointments.
Chairman also attended two dinners with members of the Groups senior Succession plans for the Board and senior management.
management team without the Executive Directors being present.
When management teams present to the Board on their operations they are Dividend policy and proposals for dividend payments.
invited to join the Board for dinner which gives the opportunity for informal Major acquisitions, disposals, and other transactions outside delegated limits.
interaction between Directors and management.
Meetings and attendance Scheduled Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 7 7 6 2 6 Alastair Lyons Chairman 7 2 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive Officer 7 David Stevens Chief Operating Officer 7 5 Geraint Jones Chief Financial Officer 7 Roger Abravanel 2 3 3 4 Manfred Aldag 4 5 Owen Clarke 2 2 Annette Court 7 7 6 6 Colin Holmes 7 7 2 Penny James 7 7 Margaret Johnson 6 7 5 Lucy Kellaway 7 5 2 Jean Park 7 6 5 Manning Rountree 4 4 3 3 Notes: Roger Abravanel stepped down from the Board with effect from 29 April 2015.
Manning Rountree joined the Board with effect from 16 June 2015.
Owen Clarke joined the Board with effect from 19 August 2015.
Manfred Aldag stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 August 2015.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 44 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees strategic oversight and whether there was sufficient challenge of management on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Group to perform in determining the strategic direction of the Group: and the Boards assessment their duties.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings they receive of the top three risks facing the business over the next three to five years.
papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues with Respondents were also invited to raise any new issues of significance that the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The number of scheduled Board they felt had developed since the last review a year ago and on which they meetings and Committee meetings of which they are a member attended believed the Board should focus in the coming year.
by each Director during 2015 is provided in the table on page 44.
The results of the review were presented by the Chairman to the Board in Agendas and papers are circulated to the Board electronically in a timely and December 2015.
Overall the review found that the Board continued to work secure manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
The Board effectively and that each Director contributes and demonstrates full agenda is structured by the Chairman in consultation with the Company commitment to his her duties.
Routine Board papers are supplemented The review identified the following areas to which the Board might give byinformation specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
particular focus in 2016: AllBoard and Committee meetings during the year were held in an open atmosphere conducive to robust and constructive challenge and debate.
Standardising the format of reports that are presented to the Board to adopt AllDirectors have, therefore, been able to bring independent judgement to more of a balanced scorecard approach with summaries of performance bear on issues such as strategy, risk management, performance, and resources.
against plan for each business detailing the key metrics, with the supporting Additional meetings are called when required and there is contact between financial material included in an appendix.
meetings, where necessary, to progress the Groups business.
Increasing the Boards understanding of the markets in which it operates, particularly for the overseas businesses.
The Company Secretary Enhancing the involvement of the Non-Executive Directors in the business All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company outside of Board meetings by introducing structured UK site visits alongside Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are the visits scheduled to the Groups overseas businesses.
followed and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Company Secretary provides updates to the Board on regulatory In the context of succession planning, it was felt that visibility to the Board and corporate governance issues, new legislation, and Directors duties and of potential successors to key positions from within the business could be obligations.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one improved by increasing the time that Non-Executive Directors spend, on of the matters reserved for the Board.
an informal basis, with the next level of management below Board level to ensure that these individuals are being developed as part of the Groups Board effectiveness longer term succession plans.
This year the evaluation of the Board was carried out internally with the Understanding the Groups performance relative to its main competitors was Chairman leading the Board evaluation process.
The evaluation considered highlighted as an area where more could be done to explore the performance the effectiveness and performance of the Board during the year under review of competitors and understand the differences with how theGroup operates.
and sought to identify the areas that the Board was prioritising to do differently in 2016.
When considering the evaluation process the Chairman considered Integrating new Board members as Board composition evolves in the feedback received from each Director after one-to-one meetings held with coming year.
him during the year as to areas of focus to improve Board effectiveness.
Alignment of the Board agenda to ensure that more time is available to The evaluation process involved the Chairman circulating an online questionnaire discuss strategic topics in the context of the development of the Group.
to all Directors and Board attendees.
Respondents were asked to assess the Consideration of the top strategic issues facing the Company over the next performance of the Board across a number of areas including: Board composition three to five years including: succession management and continued talent to ensure that it was aligned with the Groups strategic goals: the dynamics development: maintaining the Groups competitive advantage: and of the Board in the context of assessing whether it was conducive to equal successful delivery of profitable international businesses, particularly in contribution, candid discussion and critical thinking: the content and format theUS.
of management reports coming before the Board: the focus of the Board on Our Board evaluation process One-to-one meetings Directors Review previous Assess progress Chairman Raise new issues recommendations made Board attendees Results of review ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 45 Governance report continued Leadership and effectiveness continued Board effectiveness continued The Chief Executive, to whom they report, appraises annually the performance of the individual Executive Directors.
The Chairman, taking into account the The Board is responsible for views of the other Directors, reviews the performance of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the Board led by the Senior organising and directing the affairs Independent Director SID.
Following the latest review, the SID considered and discussed with the Chairman the comments and feedback that had been of the Group in a manner that is most received from the Directors as part of the Chairmans evaluation questionnaire, likely to promote its success for the and was able to confirm that the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and that he continues to demonstrate appropriate commitment benefit of its members as a whole.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has approved a statement that sets out the clear division of judgement and that his attendance at Inspop USA LLC Board meetings responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman does not affect his ability to present an objective, rigorous and constructive is primarily responsible for the leadership and workings of the Board, setting challenge to the assumptions and viewpoints presented by management its agenda, and monitoring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is not involved in and the Board.
A process for managing any potential conflicts has been the day-to-day management of the business.
Save for matters reserved for agreed by the Board such that Manning Rountree will recuse himself from decision by the Board, the Chief Executive, with the support of the other any Group Board discussions where a potential conflict of interest with his Executive Directors, is responsible for proposing the strategy to be adopted role with White Mountains has been identified.
by the Group: running the business in accordance with the strategy agreed The Board, having given thorough consideration to the matter, considers by the Board: and implementing specific Board decisions relating to the theeight Non-Executive Directors to be independent and is not aware of operation of the Group.
The statements of division of responsibilities and any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear matters reserved for decision by the Board are reviewed annually.
to affect, the judgement of any of them.
It is the view of the Board that the independent Non-Executive Directors are of sufficient calibre and number Board balance and independence that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Careful consideration continues to be given to Board structure and balance particularly given two of the Non-Executive Directors, Margaret Johnson and Independent Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for fixed periods Lucy Kellaway, will be stepping down from the Board at the AGM in April of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period having each reached nine years service.
In this context the Group continues may be extended for two further three-year periods subject to re-election by to monitor the need to refresh Board and Committee membership in an shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys orderly manner so as to maintain the continuity of Board process and the registered office or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
strength of personal interaction which underlies the effectiveness of the Although the Chairman has served in that role since July 2000 the Board Board as a team.
The Board remains satisfied that it has the appropriate remains of the view that he should continue in office.
The Chairman, along balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to with all the Directors, seeks election by shareholders annually.
enable it and its Committees to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively, as required by the Code.
Colin Holmes is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID.
Hehas the requisite knowledge and experience gained through his Board The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, the Chairman who was independent position, his Chairmanship of the Audit Committee, and his appointments on appointment, three Executive Directors, and eight independent Non-Executive to the boards of other companies.
He is available to shareholders if they Directors.
As can be seen from the Directors biographies on pages 42 to 43, have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, the Directors have a broad range of skills and experience and can bring ChiefExecutive, or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources such contact is inappropriate.
He is also responsible for leading the Boards and standards of conduct which are integral to the success of the Group.
discussion on the Chairmans performance and the appointment of a new Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Board as a whole, Chairman, as and when appropriate.
acting on the advice and recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
In accordance with the requirement under the Code for annual election The Nomination Committee seeks to balance the retirement and recruitment ofDirectors, all Directors will be submitting themselves for re-election of Non-Executive Directors so as to avoid dislocation of Board process by byshareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board is satisfied that losing experience and skills ahead of their replacement.
Appointments are allareproperly qualified for their reappointment by virtue of their skills made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard to the benefits andexperience and their contribution to the Board and its Committees.
of diversity, including gender, with a view to ensuring the Board has the appropriate mix of personality, skills, and experience.
Following a formal, rigorous and The Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the transparent process led by the Nomination Committee, the Board was delighted Groups expense, should they deem it necessary to carry out their responsibilities.
to appoint as independent Non-Executive Directors Penny James with effect from 1 January 2015, Manning Rountree with effect from 16 June 2015, and Professional development Owen Clarke with effect from 19 August 2015.
Penny joined as a member On appointment, Directors take part in a comprehensive induction programme ofthe Audit Committee with effect from her appointment, Manning joined whereby they receive financial and operational information about the Group: as amember of the Risk Committee on appointment, and Owen joined details concerning their responsibilities and duties: as well as an introduction theAudit Committee with effect from 1 January 2016.
Both Manning and to the Groups governance, regulatory and control environment.
Owenwill be subject to election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
This induction is supplemented by visits to the Groups head office in Cardiff Manning Rountree is Managing Director of White Mountains Capital Inc and certain overseas offices, and meetings with members of the senior management White Mountains and acts as Board Observer for White Mountains on the team and their departments.
Development and training of Directors is an Board of the Groups US price comparison subsidiary, in which White Mountains ongoing process.
Throughout their period in office the Directors are regularly has a minority shareholding.
Given the relatively small size of White Mountains updated on the Groups business: legal matters concerning their role and duties: shareholding in an overseas Group subsidiary company, the Board has the competitive environments in which the Group operates: and any other determined that Manning Rountree remains independent in character and significant changes affecting the Group and the industry of which it is a part.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 46 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The table below details the length of service of the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors and illustrates the balance of experience and fresh perspectives.
Director Date of appointment Current length of service as a Non-Executive Director at 31 December 2015 15 yrs 6 mths Alastair Lyons Chairman 1 July 2000 Margaret Johnson 4 September 2006 9 yrs 4 mths 9 yrs 4 mths Lucy Kellaway 4 September 2006 5 yrs 1 mth Colin Holmes 3 December 2010 Annette Court 21 March 2012 3 yrs 9 mths 1 yr 11 mths Jean Park 17 January 2014 1 yr Penny James 1 January 2015 6 mths Manning Rountree 16 June 2015 4 mths Owen Clarke 19 August 2015 The Board receives presentations from senior managers within the Group on chair.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the meeting and a regular basis and Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to make informal have an opportunity to meet with Directors after the formal business of the visits to different parts of the Group to meet with local management.
Details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are made available on request and are placed on the Companys website following the meeting.
Engagement with shareholders The Company attaches considerable importance to communications with shareholders and engages with them regularly.
Open and frequent dialogue Conflicts of interest with investors enables them to understand fully the Groups strategy, objectives In compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 regarding and governance.
The Investor Relations team has day-to-day primary responsibility Directors duties in relation to conflicts of interest, the Groups Articles of for managing communications with institutional shareholders through a Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that combination of briefings to analysts and institutional shareholders, both at may arise and to impose such limits as it thinks fit.
The Company has put in the half-year and full-year results.
A number of analysts and investors visited place procedures to deal with conflicts of interest.
These procedures include the Groups Cardiff office during the year to meet with the Executive Directors each Board member completing, annually, a conflicts of interest questionnaire and senior management in order to get a better understanding of how the that sets out any situation in which they, or their connected persons have, or Group operates and how it intends to achieve its strategic and operational could have, a direct or indirect interest that could conflict with the interests objectives.
Senior executives from the Groups overseas businesses also visit ofthe Company.
Any current Directorships that they, or their connected persons the UK in order to present to, and meet with, analysts and investors.
Site hold, any advisory roles or trusteeships held, together with any companies in visits and individual discussions with the Executive Directors are also which they hold more than 1% of the issued share capital are also disclosed.
arranged throughout the year with individual shareholders.
These procedures were reviewed by the Board in December 2015 and it was concluded that they continued to operate effectively.
In addition the Chairman had individual meetings during the year with major shareholders and reported to the Board on issues raised with him.
Board Committees The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent Committees This is supplemented by feedback to the Board on meetings between to deal with matters in accordance with written Terms of Reference.
The principal management and investors.
In addition, the Investor Relations team produces Committees of the Board Audit, Remuneration, Group Risk andNomination a quarterly Investor Relations Report that is circulated to the Board for their all comply fully with the requirements of the Code.
The Report contains an analysis of share price performance: a summary of analyst reports received during the month and of meetings that All Committees are chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director, except have been held with investors and analysts: together with details of any the Nomination Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, significant changes to the shareholders register.
and comprise a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Appointments to the Committees are made on the recommendation of the Nomination The Senior Independent Director has specific responsibility to be available to Committee and are for a period of up to three years, which may be extended investors who have any issues or concerns, and in cases where contact with for two further three year periods, provided the Director remains independent.
the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer has either The Committees are constituted with written Terms of Reference that are failed to resolve their concerns, or for where such contact is inappropriate.
reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate and reflect any Nosuch concerns have been raised in the year under review.
changes in good practice and governance.
These Terms of Reference are All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting available on request from the Company Secretary and can also be found on AGM.
The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Group Risk the Companys website: www.
Directors are fully informed Committees attend the AGM along with the other Directors and are available of all Committee matters by the Committee Chairmen reporting on the to answer shareholders questions on the activities of the Committees they proceedings of their Committee at the subsequent Board meeting.
Copies ofCommittee minutes are also distributed to the Board.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice The Group maintains a corporate website www.
co. uk if they consider it necessary.
The Chairman of each Committee attends the containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might private investors.
The major shareholders of the Company are listed be raised on the Committees activities.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 47
