Report of the Nomination Committee Statement from Alastair Lyons, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, The Nomination Committees primary responsibilities are to: Succession planning has been a key area of focus for the Committee in 2015 given the changes to the composition of the Board that have taken place during the year with both Roger Abravanel and Manfred Aldag stepping Lead the process for making appointments to the Board.
The composition will change further in the coming year with Margaret Johnson and Lucy Kellaway retiring at the forthcoming Ensure there is a formal, rigorous and transparent AGM and Henry Engelhardt stepping down as CEO in May.
In this context procedure for the appointment of new Directors to and in keeping with its remit to review regularly the composition and theBoard.
experience of the Board, the Committee ledthe process of Non-Executive Board appointments during the year.
TheCommittee carried out a robust Ensure plans are in place for orderly succession for and comprehensive recruitment process resulting in the appointment of appointments to the Board and for other senior Penny James, Manning Rountree and Owen Clarke, further enhancing the range of skills, breadth of experience and diversity around the Board table.
The Committee continued the development of a structured succession plan that would ensure appropriate action was taken well ahead of the dates on which individuals would be retiring in order to achieve their replacement, if appropriate, with individuals of the appropriate skills, experience and fit to the Board.
Alastair Lyons Chairman of the Nomination Committee 2 March 2016 The Committee carried out arobust and comprehensive Alastair Lyons, CBE recruitment process.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 56 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Each Committee member met separately with Manning and Owen and Membership agreed that each would bring invaluable experience to the Board.
The Board The membership of the Committee at the year end was Alastair Lyons approved the Committees recommendations and following regulatory Chairman, Colin Holmes and Lucy Kellaway.
The Company Secretary acts approval Manning was formally appointed to the Board with effect from as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Chief Executive to 16June 2015 and Owen with effect from 19 August 2015. attend meetings when it deems appropriate.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in 2015 although members of the Committee corresponded The Board, at its meeting in April 2015, considered the Groups current and met informally on a number of occasions to consider and meet with Succession Plan which considered the senior roles within the Group and individuals that the Committee had identified as possible candidates to join identified whether there was emergency short term cover in place in the the Board.
event that an individual left the organisation, and whether there was a permanent replacement available within the organisation, or whether the Nomination Committee attendance 2 meetings position would need to be filled externally.
It also identified where there Alastair Lyons wereindividuals who, with further experience and guidance, would be capable of moving into particular senior management roles.
Colin Holmes Lucy Kellaway The Committee remains satisfied that succession plans for Directors andsenior management are in place to ensure the continued ability of Chair Member Did not attend theGroup to implement strategy and compete effectively in the markets inwhich it operates.
The Group remains strongly supportive of the principle of boardroom The Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board or diversity, of which gender is an important, but not the only, aspect.
What is where the appointee is likely to become a Board member.
The Committee important is diversity of thought, experience and approach and each new ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the appointment appointment must complement what already exists at the Board table.
of new Directors to the Board embracing a full evaluation of the skills, Accordingly, appointments will always be made on merit against objective knowledge and experience required of Directors.
The Committee also criteria, including diversity, and not just to achieve an externally prescribed ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the number.
Given women already constitute over 25% of our plc Board, the Board and reviews the succession plans for other senior management Group has already met the target set for 2015 by Lord Davies in his report: positions.
Responsibility for making senior management appointments Women on Boards.
The Group remains committed to providing equal restswith the Chief Executive.
opportunities, eliminating discrimination, and encouraging diversity amongst its workforce both in the UK and overseas.
A breakdown of the gender of Having secured Penny James as a Non-Executive Director during 2014, Company Directors and senior employees at the end of the financial year during 2015, having regard to forthcoming retirements and the changing together with details of the Groups Equality, Diversity and Dignity at Work nature of the Groups business, the Board initiated a search for two new Policy are set out in the Directors Report on page 69.
The Group has in place a policy of recruiting well ahead of impending retirements in order to ensure continuity of knowledge and Board dynamics.
The Committee developed an appropriate specification Remuneration Committee for these roles having regard to the required skills and experience.
Following Full details of the membership, responsibilities and activities of the this process, the Committee identified Manning Rountree and Owen Clarke Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors Remuneration as best placed to fill the roles identified.
Report set out on pages 58 to 68.
Manning is a senior executive at White Mountains Insurance Group Ltd.
Detailed information of individual Directors can be found on apublicly-traded, Bermuda-domiciled holding company for insurance and pages 42 to 43 financial services interests around the world, where he oversees transactions, mergers and acquisitions and new business development.
Until recently, healso served as President of White Mountains Advisors, the companys in-house asset management operation.
Prior to joining White Mountains in2004, Manning was a consultant at McKinsey & Company, focused on theinsurance, asset management and financial services sectors.
He was alsothe Director of Corporate Development for Putnam Investments, a Appointments made in thelast year Boston-based asset management company.
Mannings experience in the US insurance sector will be invaluable as the Groups auto insurance and price comparison businesses develop in the US.
Owen is currently the Chief Investment Officer of Equistone formerly Barclays Private Equity : he served as a Director of Admiral from 19992004 when it was a private company having led BPEs participation in the MBO of Admiral in 1999.
Consequently, Owen has an excellent understanding of the Groups business and culture, as a well as a great commercial record.
Given Mannings and Owens background, experience and competence, and the external references that were obtained, the Committee did not consider Manning Rountree 43 Owen Clarke 52 it either necessary or appropriate to undertake a full search led by an external Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director recruitment consultancy.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 57
