Risk management Risk governance and oversight Risk governance and oversight Governance Three lines of defence Risk oversight Second line Three lines of defence ofdefence Our governance framework adheres to a three lines of defence model The second line of defence encompasses The Board, often via its Committees, to ensure a clear delineation of the risk oversight functions as shown has overall responsibility for approving responsibilities between control over below, which are independent of and reviewing the business strategies day-to-day operations, risk oversight and the business and central functions.
and significant policies of the Group: independent assurance of our activities.
The second line supports a structured understanding the principal risks taken by approach to risk management by All three lines of defence are responsible the Group, and setting acceptable limits maintaining and implementing the Risk for supporting and developing a culture for these risks.
The Board is ultimately Management Framework and Groupof risk awareness and to support each responsible for ensuring that an adequate wide risk policies and monitoring their other in creating the best outcome for and effective system of internal controls is proper execution by the first line of the business and its customers.
In this established and maintained.
It also provides independent way, risk management responsibilities The Board Risk Committee and Audit oversight and guidance on risks relevant are understood at all levels, ownership Committee are the main oversight to our strategy and activities, maintains and accountability is clear and control committees in the above respects.
an aggregate view of risk and monitoring and oversight is established throughout performance in relation to our risk the Group.
appetite, monitors changes in and compliance with external regulation and Business lines and centralised promotes best practice.
functions First line The business lines take calculated risks Independent assurance with the aim of delivering value for Third line of defence the business.
The first line of defence Internal Audit provides independent encompasses the controls that we have assurance to the Board via the in place to deal with day-to-day business Audit Committee that the first and manages risks in the business, to preand second lines of defence are agreed tolerances or limits.
It identifies, both effective in discharging their manages and monitors risks within respective responsibilities.
each area of the business, reporting and escalating issues as necessary and evidences control.
Chief Risk Officer Operational Risk Compliance Prudential Credit Management Risk Management Risk Management Conduct Risk Treasury Management Oversight Financial Capital Oversight Crime 108 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
