Corporate governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee at a glance The Audit Committee is composed The four members of the Audit of four Independent NonCommittee are all Independent NonExecutive Directors, in line with Executive Directors who bring a wide Code requirements: range of relevant business experience.
In June 2015 we welcomed Robert Sharpe J ohn Hitchins Chair, Independent Non-Executive Director to the Audit Committee: he has significant financial services industry experience.
R obert Sharpe, Independent Non-Executive Director I am also delighted that other Directors, who all have a standing invitation to P eter Shaw, Independent meetings of the Audit Committee, Non-Executive Director have regularly attended meetings and C hris Stamper, Independent provided valuable contributions.
Non-Executive Director It has been a busy period for the Audit Regular attendees at the Audit Committee with a significant amount Dear Shareholder Committee include the CEO, CFO, of time spent on preparing for the IPO.
I became the Chair of the Audit Group Internal Audit Director, This has included reviewing the historic Committee on my appointment in Group Financial Controller, financial information to be included in the May 2014 and I am pleased to present representatives from KPMG and Prospectus and the 2014 Annual Report this first report for the year ended the Company Secretary and Accounts and satisfying ourselves 31 December 2015.
To comply with Code requirements that the Groups internal financial that the Audit Committee has at reporting controls were fit for purpose for In line with best practice and in least one member with recent and preparation for the IPO, the Board agreed a listed company.
relevant financial experience, the during 2014 to separate the previously In respect of financial reporting, we Board is satisfied that John Hitchins combined Audit and Risk Committee.
have spent considerable time reviewing meets these requirements, being The purpose of this revised structure was the key judgements both for the halfa qualified chartered accountant to allow the Risk Committee to focus on year and full-year results, and further with extensive financial and audit oversight and advice to the Board on detail on our debates and conclusions experience.
See page 47 for full the current risk exposures of the Group reached is set out on pages 65 and 66. biographical details for John and future risk strategy, with the Audit Robust processes have been developed Committee having responsibility for The Audit Committees key role to ensure the integrity of the Groups is to review the integrity of the ensuring that the interests of shareholders financial reporting is transparent and financial reporting for the Group are properly protected in relation to that our inaugural Annual Report and and to oversee the effectiveness financial reporting and internal control.
Accounts as a listed company fully of the internal control systems meets all legislative requirements, as The report describes the work of the and work of the internal and Audit Committee and takes into account well as best practice.
This includes external auditors providing assurance to the Board that the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees The Audit Committees terms in discharging its responsibilities.
the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, of reference are reviewed balanced and understandable, and We continue to work closely with the annually and are available at Risk Committee to ensure that areas of we have implemented a number of www.
co. uk additional procedures to enable the Audit mutual interest are properly reviewed and challenged.
Committee to make this assessment.
62 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices The key focus for the Audit Committee in 2016 will be to monitor the internal control framework to ensure it remains fit for purpose for a listed company and to support the ongoing strengthening and evolution of the internal control systems as the business grows.
John Hitchins, Chair of Audit Committee We have considered the reappointment The key focus for the Audit Committee of the external auditor and, following an in 2016 will be to monitor the internal assessment of their effectiveness and control framework to ensure it remains fit independence, recommended their for purpose for a listed company and to reappointment at the 2016 AGM.
However, support the ongoing strengthening and the Audit Committee has followed evolution of the internal control systems as the developments in the reform of the the business grows.
external audit regulations with interest and in 2016 we propose to develop an audit tendering policy to provide a framework setting out the key principles and legislative requirements that will be taken into account when deciding when John Hitchins to implement a tender.
In the meantime, Chair of Audit Committee the Audit Committee confirms that the Group is in compliance with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
We conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function and I am pleased to report that the Audit Committee agreed the function was operating effectively overall.
There are some areas noted for improvement, which had already been identified by the Group Internal Audit Director, which are being actioned and will be monitored by the Audit Committee.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Monitor the integrity of the financial understandable: the appropriateness responsiveness to the findings statements of the Group, including its of the adoption of the going and recommendations annual reports, half-yearly reports and concern basis of accounting: and the Oversee the relationship with the quarterly updates statement that the Directors have external auditor, including the a reasonable expectation that the Challenge the consistency of, and approval of audit and non-audit fees Group will be able to continue its any changes to, accounting policies and terms of engagement, annually operation and meet its liabilities as and confirm whether the Group assessing their independence and they fall due has complied with and followed reviewing their findings appropriate accounting standards Review the adequacy of the Groups and made appropriate estimates whistleblowing arrangements and judgements and procedures for detecting fraud and preventing bribery and Monitor and keep under review money laundering the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and internal Monitor the remit and effectiveness control systems of the Group Internal Audit function, review all internal audit reports Assess whether the Groups financial and monitor managements reports are fair, balanced and Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued Key Reviewed Recommended to Board Key topics discussed at Audit Committee meetings since 1 January 2015 Approved Action Month Key topics Overview of first line controls covering operational risk, business assurance, conduct risk, complaints and business continuity Feb 2015 Key judgement areas for the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, including a report from the external auditor 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, including an assessment of the going concern basis Mar 2015 Pillar 3 disclosures as at 31 December 2014 Delegated authority financial limits to the CEO Jun 2015 External audit control observations, including managements responses Report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annual review of the Loan Impairment and Provisioning Policy Jul 2015 Consideration of future changes in accounting standards, in particular IFRS 9 2015 external audit plan and terms of engagement 2015 half-year results, including an update on key judgements, an assessment of the going concern basis Aug 2015 and the external auditors review highlights 2015 external audit fee proposal Policy on Employment of Former Employees of the Groups Auditor Nov 2015 Revisions to the Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Annual programme of agenda items for Audit Committee meetings in 2016 Update on progress with year-end planning and production of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, including an update on the critical judgements Dec 2015 2016 Internal Audit plan and resourcing Annual review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Whistleblowing arrangements Feb 2016 Annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer Assessment of systems of internal control Mar 2016 2015 full-year results and Annual Report and Accounts, including an assessment of the key judgements, going concern and viability reporting Effectiveness review and reappointment of the external auditor In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the quarterly Time spent in 2015 a External audit 15% results.
Regular updates from the Group Internal Audit f b Financial reporting 50% e a function on audit reports issued and progress against audit c Governance 7% recommendations were presented, and non-audit services and d Internal audit 14% fees were monitored.
d e Internal controls 11% f Other 3% c b 64 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Areas of focus Financial reporting In respect of financial reporting, the Audit Committee considered the Companys half-year and annual financial statements and considered a number of significant issues and areas of judgement as set out in the table below.
Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions The Audit Committee received regular reports from management during the year in relation Loan impairment provisions to loan impairment.
The most judgemental area of loan impairment provisioning relates to the The calculation of loan impairment provisions collective provision and the assumptions used within the collective provision models.
is managements best estimate of losses incurred in the Groups portfolios at the The Audit Committee considered and challenged all the key assumptions, including balance sheet date.
It involves estimates of probability of default and emergence period assumptions, and reviewed sensitivity analysis for expected future cash flows based on both the each key assumption.
likelihood of a loan and advance being written off and the estimated loss on such a write-off.
The probability of default is assessed using information obtained from a credit bureau for comparable borrowers.
These probabilities of defaults are then adjusted usually downwards Determining the appropriateness of loan loss to reflect the nature of the Groups lending.
The level of adjustment is based on historic provisions is therefore inherently judgemental internal data.
and requires management to make a number of assumptions.
Emergence period assumptions are necessary to estimate the time between the trigger events occurring and loans being identified as impaired.
The Group has limited historical data At 31 December 2015, the Group held available and therefore uses market insight to estimate the emergence period assumptions.
10.2million of specific loan impairment The Audit Committee considered the key assumptions across each business line with provisions and 10.5 million of collective consideration of the relatively unseasoned nature of the Groups lending and the relatively provisions respectively.
benign credit environment the Group is currently operating in.
The Audit Committee also considered specific cases of individual provisions.
The most judgemental aspect of calculating specific provisions relates to the estimate of the value of collateral due to the specialised nature of lending in SME Commercial Mortgages and Asset Finance and the alternative exit strategies which can be adopted.
The Audit Committee agreed managements judgement was appropriate as at 31 December 2015.
The disclosures relating to loan impairment provisions are set out in Note 3 and Note 20 to the financial statements on pages 151 and 162 respectively.
Interest and fee income and expense on loan assets are recognised using the EIR method of Effective Interest Rate EIR accounting.
This method spreads the income and expense over the estimated life of the asset.
The EIR method of accounting for income The EIR is calculated by management using discounted cash flow models across a number of recognition is judgemental and requires portfolios which incorporate fees, costs and other premium and discounts.
management to make a number of assumptions.
In particular, management must The Audit Committee considered and challenged the key assumptions with the EIR models.
use judgement to estimate the expected life Inparticular, time was spent understanding the judgements management have taken in of loan assets across the Groups portfolios.
relation to the expected life of the loan assets.
This assumption is underpinned by judgements At 31 December 2015, the Groups balance made on the likely repayment profile of the Groups portfolios both organically originated sheet includes the recognition of an EIR asset and acquired, which is driven by expected future customer behaviour on a tranche-byof 7.7 million.
The Audit Committee specifically considered the expected life assumptions with reference to managements forecast information.
While the Group has limited historical experience upon which to base the expected life assumptions due to the unseasoned nature of the lending, it is gradually building data on its books.
At 31 December 2015 this allowed management to revise its assumptions that had previously been driven largely by industry experience and market insight in the sector.
The Audit Committee reviewed these adjustments in detail and also considered the forecast information having regard to the current low interest rate environment.
The Audit Committee agreed that managements judgement was appropriate at 31December 2015.
The disclosures relating to EIR are set out in Note 3 to the financial statements on page 153.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions The Audit Committee considered the recognition of the DTA including the Groups forecast of Deferred tax the timing over which the asset would be realised against future taxable profits.
The recoverability of the deferred tax asset DTA requires consideration of the future The Audit Committee agreed with managements judgement that it was appropriate to levels of taxable profits in the Group.
recognise the DTA based on the forecast future profits.
This included consideration of the sensitivity of the future forecast profits.
The DTA at 31 December 2015 is 16.4 million.
The Groups DTA arises solely from temporary The disclosures relating to the DTA are set out in Note 3 and Note 17 to the financial timing differences.
The Group expects the asset statements on pages 153 and 160 respectively.
to be realised in the short to medium term.
A number of new share plans were introduced by the Company during the year.
Share-based payments Share-based payments are material by The Audit Committee considered the accounting for the share plans, including the nature and determination of the fair value methodology used to calculate the fair value of the awards granted and the key inputs and of share-based payments awarded to assumptions used in the valuation models to calculate the charge.
Directors and employees of the Group requires management to make a number of The most subjective assumption relates to the expected volatility of the Companys share judgements.
At the grant date for awards under the executive share plans, the Company was not yet listed and therefore a bucket of similar shares were used as a proxy for the Companys A total charge of 3.4 million in relation to volatility.
share-based payments was reflected in the income statement during the year.
The Audit Committee considered sensitivities of key assumptions and were satisfied with the judgements applied in calculating the fair value of the awards granted.
The disclosures relating to share-based payments are set out in Note 3 and Note 36 to the financial statements on pages 153 and 170 respectively.
Under IAS 36, the recoverable amount is the greater of either the Value in Use VIU of a Goodwill attributable to Invoice business or its Fair Value less Costs of Disposal FVLCD.
As further described in Note 3 Finance to the financial statements, management has considered both methods for calculating the At 31 December 2015, the Group held recoverable amount.
goodwill balances totalling 12.6 million, 8.5million of which is attributable to the During 2015, the business was refocused and management revised their projections for SMECommercial Mortgages segment, the business while the impact of this restructuring is being assessed.
Using these updated with the remaining balance of 4.1 million projections, under the VIU method, the goodwill relating to the Invoice Finance business of attributable to the Invoice Finance segment.
4.1 million would be fully impaired, although management note a reasonably small change Accounting standards require an assessment in the key assumptions would result in the goodwill balance being supportable.
The Audit of goodwill balances for impairment on at Committee noted that, whilst this calculation is sensitive to small changes in assumptions least an annual basis.
An impairment charge about the projected performance of the Invoice Finance business, such changes are should be recognised where the recoverable immaterial in the context of the Groups overall performance.
amount from the segment is less than the Management determined the FVLCD by reviewing recent transactions for similar businesses carrying value of the goodwill.
Judgement is and applying the Price Tangible Book Value ratio from those transactions to the Aldermore required to calculate the recoverable amount Invoice Finance business.
Management has performed an exercise to assess the comparability of the Invoice Finance business.
of the businesses involved in recent transactions with the Aldermore Invoice Finance business.
Management concluded it is appropriate to use FVLCD and therefore are satisfied that the goodwill balance of 4.1 million in relation to the Invoice Finance segment is supportable.
The Audit Committee received detailed analysis of the calculation of the recoverable amounts under both the VIU and FVLCD method.
The Audit Committee considered and challenged managements approach of using the FVLCD method and the detailed analysis which supported the valuation under this method.
This included understanding the rationale for why the two methods could produce differing valuations.
The Audit Committee specifically reviewed the comparable transactions used to derive a valuation under the FVLCD method.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the use of the FVLCD method, including the comparable transactions utilised by management to arrive at the valuation under this method.
The disclosures relating to the Invoice Finance goodwill are set out in Note 3 and Note 24 to the financial statements on pages 154 and 166 respectively.
The Audit Committee specifically reviewed these disclosures and considered the consistency with the disclosures in relation to the Invoice Finance business in the strategic review.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the disclosures were appropriate.
66 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices A full review was undertaken by the Fair, balanced Whistleblowing external legal advisers to ensure all and understandable The Audit Committee reviews the disclosure requirements were met, as adequacy and security of the Groups In line with the Code, the overarching well as following best practice whistleblowing arrangements for its principle for an annual report and A formal review was undertaken by employees and contractors to raise accounts is that the report as a whole is the Audit Committee of the draft concerns, in confidence, about possible fair, balanced and understandable and 2015 Annual Report and Accounts in wrongdoing in financial reporting should provide the information necessary advance of final sign-off or other matters.
Under the Groups for shareholders to assess the companys Whistleblowing Policy, any concern that position and performance, business A final review was performed by the an employee has should be raised with model and strategy.
This requirement Board of Directors their line manager, however this may not was at the forefront of the Audit In conclusion, the Audit Committee is always be appropriate and a dedicated Committees planning process for the satisfied that the 2015 Annual Report and contact number is in place enabling 2015 Annual Report and Accounts to Accounts meets the fair, balanced and employees to discuss the concern directly ensure that it could provide assurance to understandable criteria.
with the Head of Compliance, who will the Board about making this statement.
undertake an initial assessment and Internal controls and The process enabling the decide if an independent investigation risk management Audit Committee to reach this is required.
conclusion included: The Audit Committee is responsible for In respect of the year under review, a reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness The production of the 2015 Annual report on whistleblowing was considered Report and Accounts was managed of the Groups systems of internal control by the Audit Committee which concluded by the Chief Financial Officer, with and risk management.
Details of the that there were no areas of concern which overall governance and co-ordination risk management systems in place are were significant or demonstrated material provided by a cross-functional team of provided within the risk management weaknesses in internal controls during senior management section on pages 105 to 108. the year.
In 2016 the Audit Committee will Cross-functional support to drafting be reviewing the current whistleblowing Details of the process performed to the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, arrangements to ensure they encourage assess the effectiveness of internal included input from Finance, Risk, a culture of openness.
Further, in line controls are provided on page 43.
Company Secretariat, Investor Relations with many other companies, the Audit and the business lines including the On the recommendation of the Audit Committee will consider the appointment Managing Directors Committee and Risk Committee, the of an independent third-party provider to Board concluded that the Groups operate the whistleblowing line.
There was a robust review process of systems of internal control and risk inputs into the 2015 Annual Report management were appropriately and Accounts by all contributors to designed and operated effectively ensure disclosures were balanced, during 2015. accurate and verified, and further comprehensive reviews were conducted by senior management The Company Secretary reviewed all Board and Committee minutes to ensure all significant matters discussed at meetings were appropriately disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report andAccounts as required Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued In considering the reappointment Internal audit External audit of the external auditor, the Audit The Group has an independent and The Audit Committee reviews and makes Committee assessed the effectiveness objective Group Internal Audit GIA recommendations to the Board with of KPMG LLP through a number of function.
The GIA Director reports directly regard to the appointment of the external steps including: i agreement of their to the Audit Committee Chair and to the auditor, their remuneration and terms engagement letter and fees: ii a review CEO for administrative purposes.
Reappointment of the of the external audit plan, including the Director meets with the Audit Committee external auditor is considered by the experience of the audit team assigned: Chair on a frequent basis and periodically Audit Committee following a review of iii an evaluation of the reports issued with the whole Audit Committee without their effectiveness.
following inspections of KPMG LLP by management present.
KPMG LLP and its predecessor firm, the Financial Reporting Councils Audit The Audit Committee reviewed and KPMG Audit Plc, were appointed as the Quality Review team: iv areview of the approved the GIA Risk Assessment and Companys auditor in 2009.
The current clarity and thoroughness of KPMG LLPs Plan of Work GIA Plan including the audit partner is Mike Peck who has been written reports and contribution to Audit adequacy of resources and skills available.
The Audit Committee Committee discussions: and v a review of The GIA Director utilises specialist is cognisant of the new rules that the non-audit fees to confirm compliance with knowledge from external consultants external audit contract should be put out the Groups Non-Audit Services Policy.
where appropriate, to supplement the to tender at least every 10 years.
Given we Following the review, and having given skills of the GIA team.
The GIA Director are a newly listed company, we have not consideration to the performance, monitors changes to the business and the yet developed an audit tendering policy quality of the services provided and external environment throughout the year and we have continued to benefit from independence of the external auditor, and considers whether any changes to the continuity of service provided by our the Audit Committee recommended to the GIA Plan are needed.
Any proposed external auditor during this period of the Board that a resolution to reappoint changes are reviewed and approved by significant change.
We will develop an KPMG LLP be proposed at the 2016 the Audit Committee.
audit tendering policy during 2016 and AGM.
This recommendation was make further disclosures in this area in our The Audit Committee receives regular approved by the Board in March 2016 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
We will reports on progress against the GIA Plan and the reappointment of KPMG LLP as commence a tender process no later than including reports on individual audits external auditor is included in the 2016 2018.
The Audit Committee believes that as well as thematic issues identified.
this timetable is in the best interests of The Audit Committee also reviews the the Company.
Audit Committee effectiveness effectiveness of management action plans to remediate GIA findings and During 2015, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee undertook a review receives reports from GIA on the progress Chair met the external auditor on a of its own effectiveness as part of the management has made in implementing regular basis during the year to facilitate wider Board and Committee evaluation audit recommendations.
The Arrangements have been put in place in review took the form of an internal To assess the effectiveness of GIA in 2016 for the Audit Committee to meet evaluation and was conducted by way respect of 2015, the Audit Committee the external auditor at least once a year of aquestionnaire that was issued to all performed an internal review which without management present so that Audit Committee members.
included obtaining feedback from they can discuss their remit and raise any members of the Audit Committee as well The review covered various areas issues arising from the audit.
It also had including the role and remit of the Audit regard to the CIIA guidance on effective Processes are in place to safeguard the Committee: the effectiveness of the internal audit in the financial services independence of the external auditor, Chair: the appropriateness of information sector.
The internal review concluded including controls around the use of the provided to the Audit Committee: that the function was effective overall external auditor for non-audit services.
noting that while there were some areas Details of the Non-Audit Services Policy The Audit Committee discussed the for improvement, these had already been are set out on page 69.
In addition, during outcome of the review in 2016.
The Audit identified and were being acted upon by the year the Audit Committee approved Committee confirmed that itoperated the GIA Director.
a Policy on the Employment of Former effectively and there were no significant Employees of the External Auditor areas for concern.
Further information which provides further assurance of the about the Board and Committee auditors independence.
effectiveness process is set out on pages 56 and 57.
68 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices profit verifications and country-byDuring the year the external auditor was Non-audit services country reporting.
engaged to perform the following nonTo ensure the independence of the audit services: external auditor, the Audit Committee Agreement to use the external has adopted a formal policy on the auditor for non-audit services must be engagement of the auditor to perform approved as set out below.
When determining whether the f Under the Non-Audit Services Policy external auditor is the most suitable e the external auditor is prohibited supplier of a particular service, a from undertaking any work that management and the Audit Committee is considered to threaten its take into account the cost-effectiveness d independence or objectivity in its role.
of the service and the external auditors Prohibited work specifically includes knowledge of the Group.
KPMG LLP b bookkeeping services, the design and has policies and procedures in place c implementation of financial information to ensure that the highest standards of systems, appraisal or valuation services, objectivity, independence and integrity a Corporate finance services 41% actuarial or legal services, and any are maintained, and these comply with b Audit-related assurance services 16% other work that would involve the the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical c Taxation compliance services 2% external auditor in preparing financial Standards for Auditors.
The audit d Other taxation advisory services 20% information that is included or disclosed engagement partner must approve e Other assurance services 11% f Other services 10% in the audited financial statements, or in any non-audit services offered to the making judgements or taking decisions Group.
This ensures that the objectives The above services resulted in total on behalf of management.
of the proposed engagement are non-audit services being provided of not inconsistent with the objectives The external auditor is permitted to 0.8 million.
Corporate finance services of the audit: allows the identification undertake work in other areas as long included Reporting Accountant work on and assessment of any related threats as it is the most suitable supplier of the the Groups IPO totalling 0.3 million.
to KPMG LLPs objectivity: and service and the terms and conditions assesses the effectiveness of available In 2015 the ratio of non-audit services to of the engagement, including the level safeguards to eliminate such threats the external audit fee was 160 per cent, of the fee, do not impair its objectivity or reduce them to an acceptable level.
reflecting the considerable extent of work or independence.
Under the Policy, KPMG LLP do not carry out nonrequired from a Reporting Accountant for theAudit Committee pre-approves audit services where no satisfactory an IPO.
It is not expected that this level of the use of the external auditor for safeguards exist.
Further information on routine non-audit services, such as the total fees and non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is detailed in Note 16 of the financial statements on page 159.
Approval required Service Service not previously Audit Committee pre-approved regardless of fee Any engagement greater than 100,000 Audit Committee Pre-approved services between 20,000 and CFO 100,000 Pre-approved services less than 20,000 Direct report to the CFO Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
