Corporate governance Risk Committee Report Risk Committee at a glance The Risk Committee is composed During the year, a detailed review of risk of a majority of Independent Nonresourcing was undertaken to ensure the Executive Directors, one of whom appropriate skills and capacity resides chairs the meetings, in line with The in the Group to support the strategic Walker Review recommendations: growth and development plans.
P eter Shaw Chair, Independent The following sections discuss the Non-Executive Director activities of the Risk Committee and explain how it has discharged its P eter Cartwright, Non- 1 responsibilities.
It provides highlights Executive Director of the key matters discussed during J ohn Hitchins, Independent 2015.
This has included the significant Non-Executive Director work on the enhancement to the Risk Management Framework, its linkage to R obert Sharpe, Independent the redesigned Risk Appetite Framework, Non-Executive Director Dear Shareholder and the focus on business and strategic C hris Stamper, Independent objectives.
We have, in conjunction I am pleased to present this first report Non-Executive Director since my appointment as Chair of the Risk with the above, reviewed in detail our 1 Neil Cochrane appointed as his alternate principal risks and the activity of the Risk Committee in February 2015.
Committee has been aligned to providing Regular attendees at meetings As noted in the introductory letter from effective oversight of the risk framework, of the Risk Committee include the Chair of the Audit Committee, in line appetite and risk profile, as well as the CRO, CEO, CFO, divisional with best practice and in preparation for considering the emerging risks that we Managing Directors, Group the IPO, the Board agreed during 2014 Internal Audit Director, Company have and will continue to face over the to separate the previously combined Secretary and representatives from coming year.
This revised the Groups external auditor The agenda for 2016 will include the structure has enabled the Risk Committee The Risk Committees key role is to focus on risk oversight and provide continued development and embedding to provide oversight of and advice of the Risk Management Framework, advice to the Board on the current risk to the Board on the current risk exposures of the Group and future together with the ongoing enhancement exposures and future risk strategy of the Risk Appetite Framework and risk strategy.
of the Group, including the associated metrics and processes.
Finally, development and implementation In June 2015 we welcomed Robert it is important that the risk management of the Groups Risk Management Sharpe to the Risk Committee.
I am also functions across both first and second Framework and for ensuring delighted that other Directors, who all lines of defence have sufficient resources compliance with the Groups have a standing invitation to meetings and skills to support our risk strategies approved risk appetite of the Risk Committee, have regularly and plans, and the Risk Committee will attended meetings and provided The Risk Committees terms ensure this is kept under review.
of reference are reviewed annually and are available at Aldermore has embraced an enormous www.
co. uk amount of change over 2015, as we have strengthened our Risk Management Framework and controls in line with our business aspirations.
This has been Peter Shaw the focus of dedicated resources and, Chair of Risk Committee in line with best practice for banks and expectations of a publicly listed company, we have enhanced and implemented our risk appetite metrics, taken strategic decisions over our outsourcing arrangements, invested in systems and redesigned the primary risk control documents to support a more effective risk management environment.
70 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Aldermore has embraced an enormous amount of change over 2015, as we have strengthened our Risk Management Framework and controls in line with our business aspirations.
Peter Shaw, Chair of Risk Committee Key Reviewed Recommended to Board Key topics discussed at Risk Committee meetings since 1 January 2015 Approved Month Key topics Action Review of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Risk Appetite Framework RAF Mar 2015 Amendments to the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA Risk Strategy report from the CRO, which aimed to ensure risk management was fully aligned with the May 2015 Groups strategic objectives Report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer Jun 2015 Post-IPO updates to the ICAAP Update on resourcing within the Risk function, including proposed restructuring to ensure sufficient delineation between the first and second line credit functions Jul 2015 Annual programme of agenda items for Risk Committee meetings in 2016 Presentation from Managing Director Savings on the embedding of risk management within the Savings Division Sep 2015 Revisions to the Conduct Risk Policy Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Presentation from Group Managing Director Business Finance on the embedding of risk management within the Business Finance Division Oct 2015 Adoption of new Reputational Risk Policy Framework outlining the approach to stress testing Operational risk framework and the business assurance framework Dec 2015 Revisions to the Risk Management Framework RMF Presentation of the Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP Proposed scenarios for use in the 2016 ICAAP and Reverse Stress Testing assessments Annual review of RAF Feb 2016 Operational Risk Management Framework Update on products approved and credit policy changes in H2 2015 Time spent in 2015 In addition, regular reports included a Capital and liquidity updates on regulatory matters, managementand stress testing 11% a implementation of the RAF and cyber b Governance 11% b c Regulatory matters 16% security, and a report from the CRO d Risk frameworks and policies 13% covering performance against the risk e e Risk strategy, risk profile appetite metrics, escalated items from andriskappetite 49% c the businesses and emerging risks is provided at each meeting.
d Responsibilities of the Risk Committee Oversee the Groups overall Monitor the effectiveness of the Review and monitor activities, risk appetite, risk tolerance and Groups risk management and internal independence and effectiveness of risk strategy control systems the Risk function, including Compliance Monitor the risk profile against the Review the stress and scenario Board-approved risk appetite testing of the Groups strategic and Review risk-related Group policies for business plans recommendation to the Board Oversee the development, implementation and Ensure the adequacy of compliance Provide advice to the Remuneration effectiveness of the overall Risk with regulatory requirements Committee on principles and Management Framework including the ICAAP and ILAA and deliverables that will ensure that the recommend to the Board for approval determination of remuneration fully reflects risk performance Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Corporate governance Risk Committee Report continued Areas of focus Details of key matters discussed by Strategic and emerging risks Operational risk the Risk Committee during the year The Risk Committee received regular During the year, the Risk Committee are set out on page 71.
In addition, reports covering business and strategic received a number of updates on pages 38 to 43 provide a summary of risks, as part of the briefing provided at operational risk matters including a risk management within the Group: each meeting from the CRO.
The reports detailed review of the effectiveness of developments during 2015 and priorities also included coverage of emerging risks operational risk system and processes, for 2016: the principal and current and any areas being closely monitored, which covered business assurance strategic risks faced by the Group: and key which include economic and sectorcontrols, risk event management mitigating actions.
Further information on specific events.
Annually, the CRO as well as business continuity and the Groups approach to risk, including provides the Risk Committee with a disaster recovery arrangements.
the associated governance framework report on the key risks which are relevant As part of the continued development for managing risk, stress testing and a full to the Groups strategic objectives.
of the systems and controls in place analysis of the principal risks is set out in These risks are then monitored during to support the control environment, a the risk management section on pages the year.
revised Operational Risk Management 105 to 130.
Framework was approved in February The Risk Committee reviewed a Risk 2016.
The Risk Committee also reviewed Risk appetite Strategy document which outlined how and recommended for Board approval During early 2015, the opportunity the Groups strategy would be supported the Groups Reputational Risk Policy.
was taken to re-examine the Groups through the development of the RMF risk appetite and the RMF.
This was and enhancements to risk management Cyber security and cyber risk undertaken in support of the Groups across the Group.
The Risk Committee management has been an important growth aspirations and the planned reviewed and recommended the RMF area of focus for the Group during IPO, to ensure that the foundations to the Board for approval.
Security enhancements were for risk management were in line with documents the overarching approach implemented during the year as part of a growth objectives.
to how we manage risk, which includes security review programme and the Risk ensuring risk management is fully aligned Committee received quarterly updates on The Risk Committee reviewed the RAF, with the Groups strategy and that risk is these improvements.
which was designed to ensure alignment undertaken within clearly defined limits.
of the overarching risk appetite with In addition, the Risk Committee the Groups strategic plans.
The RAF monitored the performance of key Credit risk was structured around the principal systems, significant projects, as The Risk Committee closely risks relevant to the Group and ensures well as noting material outsourced monitored the Groups credit risk appropriate metrics are in place to arrangements, which are also monitored profile and performance against risk monitor performance against risk actively within the revised risk appetite.
At each meeting, the Risk appetite limits.
Committee received an update on credit performance, an overview of The Risk Committee monitored the The Risk Committee received the annual the portfolio composition and key implementation of the RAF during report from the Money Laundering trends.
Emerging risks and economic 2015, and received regular updates Reporting Officer which covers various developments were considered, with the from the CRO and business divisions.
areas including the Groups arrangements Risk Committee considering any potential The RAF includes procedures to support for anti-money laundering, Know impact on the Groups risk profile and the escalation of significant matters Your Customer, financial crime and appetite limits.
as appropriate, aiding enhanced risk fraud prevention, and anti-bribery awareness across the Group.
Over the year, the Risk Committee year, further enhancements were made to received updates on material credit policy Conduct risk management was an area of the RAF metrics, reflecting the dynamic changes, providing an overview of credit focus for 2015, and the Risk Committee nature of the Groups RMF.
This included the received updates on conduct risk review and approval of the Groups Credit management and approved the revised Mandate Policy and the Concentration Conduct Risk Policy.
Conduct risk forms Risk Policy.
part of the RAF and the Risk Committee actively monitors conduct risk through this framework.
Additionally, the Risk Committee receives updates twice a year on the approvals of new products and revisions to existing products, which have been reviewed by the Product and Pricing Committee.
72 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Capital, liquidity and Risk Committee effectiveness stress testing The Risk Committee undertook a review of its own effectiveness as part of the The Risk Committee monitored market, wider Board and Committee evaluation liquidity and capital risks, receiving exercise undertaken in Q4 2015.
The regular updates on key metrics.
review took the form of an internal Regulatory developments were also evaluation and was conducted by way of considered in relation to the Groups a questionnaire that was issued to all Risk approach to stress testing with the Risk Committee members.
Committee approving the revised Stress Testing Framework, which applies to The review covered various areas capital, liquidity and operational risk including the role and remit of the Risk stress testing.
It also reviewed and Committee: the effectiveness of the considered the ICAAP, ILAA and RRP Chair: the appropriateness of information documents, recommending these to provided to the Risk Committee: and the the Board for approval.
The ICAAP was relationship with management.
The Risk considered twice during the year, once in Committee discussed the outcome of March 2015 and again in July 2015, after the review in 2016.
The Risk Committee the IPO.
confirmed that it continued to operate effectively and there were no significant Regulatory developments areas for concern.
Further information The Risk Committee received regular about the effectiveness process is set out updates on regulatory developments on pages 56 and 57. and considered the impact on the Groups plans, operational processes, systems and controls.
Major areas of regulatory development considered by the Risk Committee included aspects of CRD IV, changes in the depositor protection scheme and the Senior Managers Regime.
The Risk Committee recognises the level of regulatory change has increased significantly and is likely to continue over the coming years, and a standing regulatory update is now included in its meeting programme to ensure it keeps abreast of developments.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73
