Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Corporate governance Corporate governance structure In addition to the Board Committees Both Committees have written terms of Board and Committee structure noted on the diagram below, the reference which set out their authority, The Board has delegated a number of Board has established two further and the minutes of all meetings of these its responsibilities to Board Committees, standing committees: Committees are included in Board which utilise the expertise and experience meeting packs for information.
of their members to examine subjects in The General Purpose Committee, detail and make recommendations to the comprising the two Executive Directors, Responsibility for the day-to-day for the purpose of approving routine Board where required.
This delegation management of the Group is delegated business matters such as powers of allows the Board to focus more of its time to the CEO, who has established a attorney, changes to bank mandates on strategic and other broader matters.
structure of two executive committees, and the execution of agreements The chairs of the Board Committees supported by a number of subwhich have already been approved in provide the Board with a verbal update committees, which oversee the execution principle by the Board on matters discussed at each meeting, of the strategy agreed by the Board, and Board Committee minutes are made and performance and risk issues.
The Disclosure Committee, comprising available to the whole Board through a The executive committees and their subthe two Executive Directors and the secure online system.
General Counsel, for the purpose committees each have their own terms of maintaining procedures, systems of reference.
and controls for the identification and disclosure of market and price sensitive information Governance structure effective from IPO Aldermore Group PLC Board Board Committees Corporate Governance Audit Risk Remuneration and Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Aldermore Bank PLC Board CEO Executive Committees Executive Executive Risk Committee Committee Aldermore Bank PLC the Bank The Bank is a wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company and it transacts the Groups banking business.
It is authorised by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA.
The Board of the Bank mirrors that of the Company and comprises the same Directors.
The Bank Board holds separate board meetings immediately following the meetings of the Companys Board.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
