44 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Other Governance Re-election of Directors Name Designation Appointed Details of the current Directors can be found on pages 22 and Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 03 02 16 23.
Anthony Brooke, Rory Macnamara, Chris Samuel and Karl Karin Forseke Chair 01 03 12 Sternberg were appointed during the year.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Katherine Garrett-Cox Chief Executive Officer 01 05 07 was appointed after the year end.
Their appointments fall to be Anthony Brooke Non-Executive Director 24 06 15 confirmed by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
John Hylands Non-Executive Director 22 02 08 John Hylands announced his intention to retire from the Board Alastair Kerr Non-Executive Director 01 10 12 after the AGM and accordingly is not standing for re-election.
Rory Macnamara Non-Executive Director 24 06 15 Susan Noble Non-Executive Director 11 07 12 The Board has decided that, in line with the UK Corporate Win Robbins Non-Executive Director 14 02 13 Governance Code, all of the Directors will be subject to reChris Samuel Non-Executive Director 23 09 15 election every year.
Karl Sternberg Non-Executive Director 23 09 15 The individual performance of each Director and their ongoing Gregor Stewart Non-Executive Director 01 12 14 suitability for election or re-election was considered and Alan Trotter Chief Financial Officer 01 02 10 endorsed by the Nomination Committee.
All are recommended for election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Resigned 19 February 2015 Meeting.
Each of our Directors has confirmed that they remain Resigned 30 September 2015 committed to their role and have sufficient time available to Resigned 1 January 2016 meet what is expected of them.
Resigned 3 February 2016 Major shareholders As at 3 March 2016 the Company had received notifications from shareholders holding an interest in more than 3% of the voting rights of the ordinary shares in issue of the Company.
The disclosures, updated to reflect known changes in holdings, are: Shareholder Nature of interest Number of shares Shares 52,881,891 10.2% Elliott International, LP, Liverpool Limited Partnership Contract for difference over shares 26,441,928 5.1% DC Thomson & Company Limited and John Leng & Company Limited Shares 29,275,000 5.6% The largest shareholder in the Company is the nominee company for Alliance Trust Savings which holds its shares on behalf of over 21,000 customers.
Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited 132,285,881 25.4% Board and Committee attendances In addition to the scheduled Board and Committee meetings below, the Board and Committees met on a number of other occasions to consider matters arising between the scheduled meetings.
Meetings are structured over two days and take place six times a year.
This allows our Directors to have greater oversight of all parts of the Group.
Meeting attendances Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Risk Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Karin Forseke 6 6 - - - - 2 2 - - Katherine Garrett-Cox 6 6 - - - - - - - - Anthony Brooke 3 3 - - - - - - - - John Hylands 6 6 4 4 - - 2 2 4 4 Alastair Kerr 6 6 - - 4 4 2 2 4 4 Rory Macnamara 2 3 - - - - - - - - Susan Noble 6 6 4 4 4 4 - - 4 4 Win Robbins 1 1 1 1 1 1 - - - - Chris Samuel 2 2 - - - - - - - - Karl Sternberg 2 2 - - - - - - - - Gregor Stewart 6 6 4 4 - - - - 2 2 Alan Trotter 5 5 - - - - - - - - Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 45 Directors and Officers indemnification Share capital and waiver of dividends The Company provides insurance maximum payable 22m The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2015 in aggregate for legal action brought against its Directors as comprised 526,340,897 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which 886,173 a consequence of their position.
In addition separate deeds of have been acquired by the Trustee of an Employee Benefit indemnity have been agreed with each Director indemnifying Trust the Trustee with funds provided by the Company in them as permitted by company law.
The indemnity and connection with its employee share plans.
The Trustee has insurance does not extend to cover claims brought by the elected to waive all dividends payable in respect of those Company itself which are upheld by the Courts, nor to criminal shares.
The Trustee holds a further 886,173 shares deposited by fines or penalties.
recipients of awards under the LTIP.
Each Ordinary share of the Company is entitled to one vote but the Trustee does not vote in respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Company.
Access to advice In the course of the year the Company acquired and cancelled All Directors have access to independent professional advice 27,018,249 shares at a total consideration, before costs and if necessary.
There are no preference shares or shares held in treasury.
Relationship with shareholders All Directors normally attend the AGM where they have the Agreement in respect of voting rights opportunity to meet shareholders.
Meetings also take place There are no agreements in respect of voting rights.
throughout the year with major and institutional shareholders, such meetings normally being attended by the Chair or Chief Executive.
All Directors receive reports from our public relations Share buyback authority advisers and our corporate broker as an additional way for At the last AGM the shareholders renewed the authority for the them to capture the views of our major shareholders on a nonrepurchase of up to 14.99% of the issued shares.
falls to be renewed at the next AGM.
The Company made use of this provision during the course of the year as detailed above.
Investment Trust Status The Company will, as part of the authority being sought, include that any shares bought back under the authority may be held in HM Revenue and Customs have confirmed that Alliance Trust has Treasury and reintroduced into the market or cancelled.
investment trust status for all financial periods from 1 January 2012.
Conflicts of interest Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive The Directors have previously provided details of all interests which potentially could cause a conflict of interest to arise.
Until 3 February 2016 the Company was approved by the The unconflicted Directors in each case noted the declarations Financial Conduct Authority as a manager under the Directive.
by the Directors of their other interests and confirmed that Since that date the manager is Alliance Trust Investments Limited.
at that time none of the interests disclosed were reasonably The Company has appointed National Westminster Bank likely to give rise to a conflict.
An annual review of all interests Plc as its Depositary under the Directive for the purpose of was undertaken as part of the year end process and this was strengthening the arrangements for the safe custody of assets.
considered by the Board in February 2016.
Procedures are in place to allow Directors to request authority should it be Regulatory disclosures, including the Companys Investor required outwith the normal Board meeting schedule.
Disclosure Document, are provided on the Companys website at http: investor.
co. uk ati investorrelations AIFMD-disclosures.
Director development Every new director receives an individually tailored induction.
The Board as a whole received updates on corporate governance, risk and business issues during the year and specific training on regulatory matters such as the ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
46 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Other Governance Annual General Meeting Report of Directors and Responsibility Statement In addition to formal business, the Investment Manager will present on investment performance and there will be the The Report of the Directors, including the Directors opportunity for questions to be put to the Directors.
This year, in responsibility statement, on pages 24 to 32, the going addition to the normal business there will be proposals to: concern statement on page 33 and pages 44 to 46 of the Annual Report and Accounts has been approved by approval of a new Remuneration Policy: the Board.
renew the share buyback authority and requesting the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: power to hold shares purchased under that authority to be held in Treasury or cancelled with power to reintroduce any the financial statements, prepared in accordance shares held in Treasury to the market but not at a discount with International Financial Reporting Standards as to net asset value: and adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and confirm the notice period for convening general meetings profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings other than Annual General Meeting.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the Greenhouse gas GHG emissions development and performance of the business and Our mandatory disclosure of total GHG emissions data for the the position of the Company and the undertakings year ended 31 December 2015 can be found on page 21.
We included in the consolidation taken as a whole, report there on all of the emission sources required under the together with a description of the principal risks and Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports uncertainties that they face: and Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and emission sources that are not included in our consolidated provide the information necessary for shareholders financial statements.
to assess the Companys position, performance, Our carbon footprint has been calculated based on the Defra business model and strategy.
Environmental Reporting Guidelines including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance.
We have adopted Lord Smith of Kelvin an operational control approach.
The emissions reported on page Chairman 21 have been verified by Carbon Footprint Limited.
