Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 29 Audit and Risk Committee In this section we set out the main areas of focus of the Committee during the year.
Like the Board Risk Committee the Audit Committee had responsibility for oversight of all companies within the Group.
The Audit Committee became the Audit and Risk Committee on 4 February 2016.
The Audit and Risk Committee now considers audit and risk matters relating to the Company.
Minutes of the subsidiaries committees are reviewed by this Committee to maintain an overview of audit and risk issues arising in the subsidiaries.
John Hylands Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Areas of focus in 2015 The Committee was presented with a detailed paper on the implications of changing the allocation of administrative expenses.
The Committee considered the proposal to allocate one-third of such expenses to Critical Accounting revenue and the balance to capital and agreed the change.
The Committee welcomed the change which brought Policy the policy of the Company into line with the AIC Statement of Recommended Practice and was consistent with the approach of other investment trusts.
Investment Listed investments represent the most significant item on the balance sheet and are the main driver of investment portfolio valuation performance.
The Committee received management reports on the controls and procedures of the external custodian administrator.
These allowed the Committee to assess that the controls in place to ensure the and oversight of ownership, valuation and liquidity of these investments were effective.
listed investments The valuation methodology used to value the investments in the subsidiaries and private equity investments can be found in Note 23.8 on pages 83 to 86.
The Committee recognised that Alliance Trust Savings was now of a scale that consideration needed to be given to having an external valuation carried out and an external Valuation valuation was instructed.
The Committee challenged the range of values provided and after fully reviewing the of unlisted methodology and assumptions adopted, the Committee approved a value which fell in the midpoint of the range of values proposed.
In respect of Alliance Trust Investments, the Committee debated the initial valuation investments methodology and outputs provided by management prior to the final valuations of the subsidiaries being recommended to the Board for approval.
The Committee considered the adoption of the amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code and in UK Corporate particular the need to include a viability statement in the Accounts.
Management provided a number of papers Governance Code on this aspect of the changes to assist the Committee reaching the conclusions detailed on page 24.
In the early part of the year the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to outsource the Internal Audit Internal Audit function.
The Committee will consider the need for the Company to continue to have its own dedicated internal function audit function under the new Group structure.
The Committee considered the content of the Interim Accounts and the Report and Accounts of the Company Review of Annual and the accounts of Alliance Trust Investments and Alliance Trust Savings before recommending approval and Interim to their respective Boards.
The Committee concluded that the Companys accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
Accounts The Committee considered the independence and performance of the External Auditor before arriving at the External Auditor conclusions on page 31.
The Committee considered the progress of the implementation of the new technology platform for Alliance Trust Savings and agreed the criteria for the system going live.
The Committee also reviewed the progress being Project controls made on the acquisition of the Stocktrade business and its integration into the Alliance Trust Savings business.
In addition to the above the Committee reviewed the whistleblowing policy, regular reports from the Head of Other items Compliance and Head of Internal Audit and the implications of new accounting standards.
30 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 their opinion, based on the information available to them and the Internal controls explanations provided, that in all material respects the Company The Group has a clear governance structure for the control and has been managed in accordance with the rules in the FUND monitoring of its business, including defined lines of responsibility sourcebook, the Articles of Association of the Company and as and delegation of authority.
The Group has a comprehensive required by the AIFM Directive.
system for reviewing, monitoring and reporting to the Board, During 2015 the Board Risk Committee reviewed the including a detailed financial review against forecast.
effectiveness of the Groups Risk Management Framework and The Board is responsible for determining its appetite for the level reviewed and challenged the results of each of the Groups of risk it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and quarterly Risk and Control SelfAssessment process which for the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
considers the effectiveness of internal control in managing the Throughout 2015, the Audit and the Board Risk Committees significant risks to which the Group is exposed.
These reviews assisted the Board in fulfilling this responsibility through regular included the Risk Appetite of the Company and of its subsidiaries review of their effectiveness, including all material financial, as well as whether any of the trigger points set by the Board operational and compliance controls.
In 2016, under the new against each measure had been breached organisational structure, responsibility for these two functions During 2015 the Audit Committee regularly received reports were combined into a single Audit & Risk Committee.
from the Groups Compliance and Internal Audit functions The Board has an established ongoing process for the and from the External Auditor which include details of all identification, evaluation and management of the significant significant internal control issues relating to the Group.
The Audit risks faced by the Group.
The Board Risk Committee regularly Committee provided independent oversight of Internal Audit reviewed this process, which is in accordance with the Guidance and Compliance to ensure that they were providing the level of on Risk Management, Internal control and Related Financial and scrutiny expected by the relevant Committees and the Board.
In Business Reporting issued in September 2014.
The process helps arriving at their conclusions, and to allow reports to be made to the Board to carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks to them without management presence, the Audit Committee had the business as outlined on pages 18 and 19. private sessions with each of the Head of Internal Audit, Director of Compliance and the External Auditor during the year.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the assets of the The Audit & Risk Committee performed an assessment for the Group and its customers are safeguarded, proper accounting purpose of this annual report, which considered all significant records are maintained, and the financial information used aspects of risk management and internal control arising within the business and for reporting to stakeholders is reliable.
during the period of the report, including the work of the Risk, Any system of risk management and internal control is designed Compliance and Internal Audit functions.
The Committee then to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve reported its findings to the Board.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance As a result of the annual review and the ongoing processes and not absolute assurance against regulatory breach, material for review, monitoring and reporting of the Groups risk misstatement or loss.
management and internal controls, the Board did not identify The Audit Committee asked management to undertake a detailed any significant weaknesses or failings and remains satisfied with review of the current arrangements for client assets as well as the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal the implementation of outsourcing to ensure that appropriate control systems.
The Board recognises that the environment in controls were in place for current business and for any change in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate is complex and the regulatory regime for client assets.
The Board supports and guides the business in the ongoing development of the risk management tools which The Company has appointed a Depositary, National Westminster are in place to enhance the control environment of the business Bank plc.
The Depositary is responsible for the safekeeping of and to ensure the business continues to be well positioned to all custodial assets of the Company, ensuring its cash flows are comply with operational and regulatory changes.
properly monitored, for verifying and maintaining a record of all other assets of the Company and for the collection of income that From 3 February 2016 Alliance Trust Investments is the alternative arises from the Companys assets.
It is the duty of the Depositary investment fund manager of the Trust under the AIFM Directive to take reasonable care to ensure that the Company is managed and has responsibility for a number of areas, such as investment in accordance with the FUND Sourcebook, the Companys risk, which formerly were considered by the Board Committees.
Articles of Association and the AIFM Directive.
In future years the nature of this report will change: however as at the year end the Group structure was unchanged we report here Having carried out such procedures as the Depositary considers necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Depositary, it is on the controls, processes and structures in place at that time.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 31 Internal controls over financial Independence of Auditor reporting The Committees policy is to allow the audit firm to be instructed to undertake non-audit work only where there is no One of the risks to the Group is Financial and Prudential threat to independence.
Any assignment must be approved Reporting the risk of misstatement of the accounting policies on behalf of the Committee by its Chair.
Such assignments and ineffective controls over financial and regulatory reporting.
are normally put out to tender.
Last year 4,000 was paid to The Group has a Financial Accounting Policy and an Accounting the Auditor, in respect of work on the audit of the solvency Manual to enable the Group to comply with all relevant statement for the proposed termination of the Alliance Trust accounting standards to ensure that the financial statements Global Thematic Opportunities Fund.
provide a true and fair view.
Each year the Committee considers the independence of the This risk and the mitigating controls are assessed regularly by Auditor.
It has done so this year and confirms the Auditors management.
Controls over the preparation of the consolidated independence.
accounts include but are not limited to: A formal review and sign-off of the annual accounts by Effectiveness of Audit process management including verification of any statements made: During the course of the year the audit engagement partner Adoption and review of appropriate accounting policies by and other members of the engagement team met with the the Board: Audit Committee Chair and management, both together and Review and approval of accounting estimates by the Board.
These meetings provide an opportunity for matters The Audit & Risk Committee also considered whether the Annual relating to the conduct of the audit, including the performance Report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable, of the External Auditor, to be raised and addressed at the time.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Following completion of the external audit of the financial the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In statements for the period ended 31 December 2014 a arriving at their conclusion that the Annual Report satisfied this formal evaluation of the External Auditors effectiveness was standard the Committee took into account the process adopted undertaken.
The evaluation was conducted by way of a survey, in the preparation of the document which included: completed by Audit Committee members and members of The involvement of Executive Committee members, the management within the businesses and the control functions.
Company Secretary, the Head of Performance and Risk, the The survey assessed the External Auditors performance against Director of Risk, the Financial Controller and the Head of the following criteria: independence and objectivity, audit Investor Relations in regular drafting meetings: strategy, communication with management, and how the audit All subsidiary company executive directors and the was finalised.
The Audit Committee considered the results of Company Secretary provide sign-off on the draft issued to the evaluation and concluded that it was satisfied both with the Board for approval: the performance and with the independence of the External Auditor.
No material issues were identified.
During the year Verification of all factual statements contained within the action was taken to ensure effective communication between narrative section of the Annual Report, with evidence management and the External Auditor.
required from the author: Statements which cannot be verified typically opinions or forward-looking statements specifically brought to the Tender of Audit Committees attention: During 2010 the Board carried out a tender exercise for the role Independent internal review by a senior manager not of Auditor.
The Committee decided that it would be appropriate involved in the preparation of the Annual Report.
to change Auditor and recommended the appointment of Deloitte LLP to the Board who in turn recommended their The Committee considered the steps outlined above and the appointment to the members at the 2011 Annual General content of the document.
After review the Committee were Meeting.
Deloitte LLP have been reappointed at subsequent satisfied, taking care to ensure that the narrative parts of the AGMs and are proposed for reappointment in 2016.
The Annual Report were consistent with the numerical disclosures recommendation to reappoint Deloitte LLP is not automatic.
in the audited accounts, that the Annual Report satisfied the required standard and recommended approval to the Board.
In the course of the year the Chair of the Committee has met 32 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 with the Auditor outwith the formal structure of Committee In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are meetings.
The Committee has considered the performance of required to: the Auditor and is satisfied with the rigour that they apply to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the audit process and have recommended the reappointment of consistently: Deloitte LLP for a further year.
In accordance with professional guidance, Deloitte LLP change the audit partner every five present information, including accounting policies, in a years.
The current partner, Calum Thomson, will this year be manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and carrying out his final audit for the Trust and a replacement has understandable information: been agreed.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users The Committee has decided that it will put the role of Auditor to understand the impact of particular transactions, other out to tender at least every 10 years in accordance with the events and conditions on the entitys financial position and UK Corporate Governance Code and taking into account new financial performance: and rules from the Competition and Markets Authority and the European Commission.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Disclosure of information to Auditor The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps they ought reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report and a Strategic Report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period.
By law, the Directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
