24 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Alliance Trust is committed to good corporate governance.
The The Board sets the long-term objectives of the Company Board believes that this is best achieved by considering how the and approves its business plans and strategic direction.
It is various corporate codes should be applied to the running of the responsible for ensuring that a framework of prudent controls Company, rather than simply following checklists.
As explained is in place to enable risk to be managed effectively.
It provides earlier in the Report, this year we announced radical changes to leadership and reviews business performance.
the way in which the Company will operate going forward.
The Details of the Board members can be found on pages 22 and 23.
Board believes this will simplify the business and also make it During 2015 the Board delegated certain decisions to easier for shareholders to understand our strategy and how we committees comprising Non-Executive Directors, Executive work to provide shareholder returns.
Directors or a combination of these and management.
The following pages describe the work of the Board and its The areas of decision-making that the Board reserved to various committees during 2015.
We also outline the structure we itself were: will have in the future following the restructure of the Group.
strategy and investment policy Both of our subsidiaries, Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments, operate subject to regulatory supervision.
However new subsidiary businesses and joint ventures the way in which they operate is also monitored by the Board annual budget of the Company.
We have now set up independent Boards for both Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments and approval of treasury policies, banking counterparties and while the Board of the Company can exert control through its counterparty exposure limits shareholdings in each of the subsidiaries, it will no longer have group borrowing limits and the maximum amounts and a significant influence in the decisions taken by either of these nature of new bank borrowing facilities businesses.
We set out on the next page how our new structure will operate.
major contracts At each Board meeting, the Board scrutinises KPI reports asset classes in which any Group company may invest covering all aspects of the business, including investment and derivative instruments which any Group company may use operational performance and customer outcomes.
This enables the Board to satisfy itself that good progress is being made material changes to gearing and the percentage mix of against the agreed business plan and allows it to take early asset allocation by class and geography corrective action where required.
In addition the Board receives major changes in employment and remuneration structures regular in-depth presentations from investment managers and also from the Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust political and charitable donations Investments management teams.
These presentations give the any material litigation or civil proceedings Board the opportunity to provide both support and challenge to management across all areas of the business.
The Boards of the Companys subsidiaries are required to seek endorsement from the parent Board for a range of matters.
During the year these included: Compliance with UK Corporate business plans and annual budgets Governance Code approval of directors and officers The FRC published a new edition of the UK Corporate acquisition or disposal of part of any business Governance Code in September 2014 that applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 the Code.
launch of new or material changes to existing funds The Company has complied throughout 2015 with the Code.
or products This report describes how the Board applies the principles of the significant contracts Code in practice.
The page opposite shows our new structure and the way in We also comply with the principles of the AIC Code of which the Board of the Company and those of its subsidiaries Corporate Governance issued in February 2015.
In future years will operate.
we will only report on compliance against the AIC code.
Lord Smith of Kelvin, Chairman Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 25 Corporate Governance Corporate structure We have a number of Board Committees to ensure good governance and management and to enhance accountability and independence.
After our announcement regarding the changes to governance we restructured our Board Committees.
The terms of reference of the four committees reporting to the Board can be found at http: investor.
co. uk ati investorrelations board.
The chart below shows the main committees and reporting lines within the Group that are in place for the future and as it was at the year end.
New Board of Directors structure Board Committees Management Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Engagement Subsidiary Boards Alliance Trust Investments Alliance Trust Savings Old structure Board of Directors Board Committees Board Risk Nomination Remuneration Audit Chief Executive Key Management Committees Asset Allocation Executive Authorisation Risk Management Portfolio Oversight Subsidiary Boards Alliance Trust Investments Alliance Trust Savings In the future the Board of the Company will no longer require the subsidiary boards to seek endorsement for their business plans, budgets, the launch of new funds or products or approval of major business expenditure.
These, along with the appointment of new independent directors, are part of the changes introduced to make the subsidiary boards more autonomous.
The Board will still maintain an element of oversight and it has to be consulted before either of the subsidiaries takes any action which could impact adversely on the reputation or long-term financial interests of the Company.
Each of the subsidiary companies will also have a non-executive director from the Company sitting as a non-executive director on its board.
