28 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee exists to assess the skills and experience of the individual directors of the Company in order to ensure that they are sufficient to provide effective direction and oversight of the Companys strategy and operation.
We set out below the main areas of focus of the Committee during 2015.
Lord Smith of Kelvin, Chairman, Nomination Committee Areas of focus in 2015 The Committee discussed the need for the recruitment of an additional non-executive early in the year and agreed that this process should continue, notwithstanding the addition of two new non-executive Non-Executive directors following the Annual General Meeting.
The independent search firm used, Russell Reynolds, which was also used this year for board evaluation, has no other connection with the Company.
Director succession The appointed search firm sourced two strong candidates and, after consultation with major planning shareholders, the Committee decided to recommend to the Board the appointment of both Karl Sternberg and Chris Samuel, as they both complemented the skills of the existing directors.
Since 2011 each Director has been subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Committee considered each continuing Director for their independence, contribution, commitment and time Re-election of availability and concluded that each Director satisfied these criteria and recommended their re-election.
Directors The Committee also assessed each director appointed since the last AGM and also assessed them under the same criteria and recommended their election.
Following upon the Boards decision to support an independent board for Alliance Trust Savings Subsidiary the Committee instructed Russell Reynolds to carry out a search.
Candidates were identified Company Nonand appointments subsequently made.
In the case of Alliance Trust Investments the Committee recommended the appointment of Susan Noble as the Chairman of Alliance Trust Investments.
Executive Director In the case of both subsidiaries the Committee considered the most appropriate Company Director to and Chairman serve in a non-executive capacity on the Board of the subsidiaries.
It was agreed that Chris Samuel would appointments join the Board of Alliance Trust Investments and Gregor Stewart the Board of Alliance Trust Savings.
Following upon the resignation of Karin Forseke as Chair, the Committee appointed Russell Reynolds to Chairman carry out a search for her replacement.
After the end of the year the decision, on the recommendation of appointment the Committee, was taken to appoint Lord Smith as Chairman.
As part of the consideration of the appointment of Lord Smith, and in light of the Board being wholly Deputy Chairman non-executive, the Committee considered the need for a Deputy Chairman.
The Committee felt that, while unusual for an investment trust, this would provide support to the Chairman during a period likely Appointment to involve a greater than usual workload.
Board and The Committee considered the impact of the restructured Group and recommended changes to the Committee membership of the different Board Committees to reflect the new makeup of the Board.
