Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 27 Board Risk Committee The Board Risk Committee provided greater scrutiny of the risks involved in a Group comprising an investment trust, an asset management business and a share trading platform.
It monitored and challenged the effectiveness of risk management across all parts of the Group.
In future, risks relating to the Company will be considered by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Matters relating to the other companies in the Group will be considered by the Audit and Risk Committees of those companies.
We set out on pages 18 and 19 how the business managed risk in the year and below we provide the areas of focus of the Committee during the year.
This committee was chaired by Susan Noble during the year and was discontinued in February 2016.
Areas of focus in 2015 The Committee considered the risk appetites recommended by management in relation to the Company and the subsidiary companies and agreed a number of changes reflecting the new structure of the Risk appetite Group and changes to the business environment in which they operate.
The Committee received quarterly risk reports and continued the ongoing development of these reports as a tool for management to measure risk and the effectiveness of the mitigating actions that had been put in place.
Monitoring included an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process which involves Risk monitoring analysing the risks, including solvency and liquidity, to businesses and the level of capital the business and reporting should hold to reflect those risks for the Company and the other businesses in the Group, Recovery and Resolution Plans for Alliance Trust Savings which considers how that business should react to extreme stresses, and an Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
The Performance and Investment Risk Manager reports at each meeting how the investment managers are managing risk within their portfolios.
In the course of the year the Committee extended the scope of Investment risk reporting to provide increased levels of oversight.
The Committee considered and recommended for approval by the Board a number of submissions Regulatory to the Regulator.
The Committee receives regular reports on new legislation that will impact on the compliance business and the risks associated with non-compliance with regulatory requirements.
The Committee received regular reports on the activities of the IT department to improve and enhance IT security.
The Committee heard that the Group had tested the effectiveness of its Business Continuity Cyber Risk Plan during the year and the security measures already in place have been further enhanced to reduce future risk.
The Committee considered the ongoing risks associated with funding the closed defined benefit pension Pension scheme scheme and agreed to investigate removal of this risk by looking at a buyout of the scheme liabilities.
