ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee plays an integral role in assisting the Board fulfil its oversight responsibilities.
In performing its duties, the Committee strives to maintain effective working relationships with the Board, the Companys management and the external auditors.
The Committee reviews the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, reviews all proposed half-yearly and annual results, and advises the Board whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, fairly present the Companys financial position and provide the necessary information to the shareholders of the Company to assess the Companys position and performance, business model, and strategy.
Membership The Committee comprises three independent Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board.
The CEO, COO, Director of Finance, General Counsel and external auditors also participate in Committee meetings by invitation.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, Mr. Jeff Rohr has relevant, recent financial experience being a Certified Public Accountant with over thirty years of senior management and executive experience.
At the beginning of 2015, Mr. Peter Dolan and Mr. Rick Davis served as the other two independent members of the Committee.
In June 2015, Mr. Kevin Sharer was appointed to replace Mr. Dolan.
Subsequent to year end in January 2016, Ms. Jill Smith was appointed to replace Mr. Sharer.
The Committee met four times in 2015, and the external auditors participated in three of these meetings.
Messrs. Rohr, Davis, Dolan and Sharer were present at all meetings during the year during their term of service.
Responsibilities The Committees main responsibilities are to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its annual and half-yearly reports and accounts and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance: and reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements made and matters communicated to it by the auditor.
The roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee additionally include to: Review the Companys internal financial controls and the Companys internal control and risk management systems: Advise on the need and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: Make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: Develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm: and to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and Report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
The Committee carries out these duties for the Company, major subsidiary undertakings and the Group as a whole, as appropriate.
Page 98 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 98 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Audit Committee Report continued Activities during the year The Committees activities for the year ended 31 December 2015 included the responsibilities set forth above, as well as the items set forth below: Financial reporting Reviewed and approved the appropriate audit plan, before the start of the annual audit cycle: Reviewed and provided comments and recommendations in respect of the financial statements in the half-yearly report for the period ended 30 June 2015, and the financial statements in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015: Reviewed the Companys approach and methodology for determining the fair value of investments, including review of the fair value reports on the individual investments.
Considered and recommended the involvement of external valuation specialist firm to assist management and the Board in deriving the fair value of the subsidiary undertakings: Considered significant matters, risk areas, and areas of judgement in relation to the Groups financial statements taking into account the areas highlighted by the external auditors in their presentations to the Committee, and challenged where necessary.
The Committee is satisfied with the integrity of the financial statements of the Company in all material aspects, including the application of significant accounting policies, the methods used to account for significant transactions, use of judgements and estimates made by management, including those made in deriving the fair value of the subsidiary undertakings, and the quality and completeness of the disclosures in the financial statements of the Company.
Internal controls and risk management systems Reviewed the principal elements of the Companys risk management framework as set out on pages 40 to 45 of this Annual Report.
The Committee gives consideration and provides guidance on enhancing the internal controls and risk management framework, as needed: Reviewed the established procedures, which provide a reasonable basis for the Board to make proper judgements on an ongoing basis as to the financial position and prospects FPP procedures of the Company following the adopted risk approach: Reviewed the whistleblower policy that was established and approved by the Board in 2014, which has been communicated to employees.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the policy has been designed to encourage staff to report suspected wrongdoing as soon as possible, provide staff with guidance on how to raise those concerns, and ensure staff that they should be able to raise genuine concerns without fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken.
Significant areas reported to the Board Valuation of Group subsidiaries At the close of each annual financial period, the Directors formally approve the value of all subsidiary businesses in the Group, which is used to derive the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value GSOAV.
This Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value is a sum-of-the-parts SOTP valuation of all the subsidiaries that make up the Group.
Page 99 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 99 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee discusses with management and the auditors the appropriateness of the adopted methodology and approach in deriving the GSOAV.
Further details of the Group valuation methodology are outlined in note 11 on pages 138 to 141.
Although the fair values of the Groups investments in subsidiaries are not included in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, additional disclosures are provided in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
This is a significant performance metric for the Group.
Financial instruments subsidiary preferred shares Certain of the Groups subsidiaries have outstanding preferred shares which have been classified as subsidiary preferred shares in current liabilities as the subsidiaries have a contractual obligation to deliver cash or other assets to the holders under certain future liquidity events, and or a requirement to deliver an uncertain number of common shares upon conversion.
Significant judgement is used in determining the classification of these financial instruments in terms of liability or equity and significant estimates are made when determining the appropriate valuation methodology and deriving the estimated fair value of the subsidiary preferred shares.
As such, they present a significant risk for the financial statements.
Capitalisation of development cost Given the nature of our business, the Group incurs significant research and development costs.
Due to the early stage of development of most of our subsidiaries, there is a limited history of achieving both technical feasibility and commercial viability that can be used as a base for assessing and determining whether the development costs have met the criteria for capitalisation.
As such, key judgements are made in determining whether the capitalisation criteria are met, there is a risk of development cost not being appropriately capitalised, which in turn, is a significant risk for the financial statements.
External audit Reviewed and approved the scope of the external audit procedures over the half-yearly report for the period ended 30 June 2015, and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015: Discussed with management and agreed upon the terms of the engagement of the external auditors and the auditors remuneration for audit and non-audit services.
In assessing independence, the Audit Committee received the auditors presentation and confirmation that in its professional judgment, KPMG is independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Committee was satisfied that throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of KPMG was not in any way impaired by the non-audit services they provided to the Group during the year, by the amounts of non-audit fees, or by any other factors: Assessed the independence, objectivity and qualifications of KPMG as the external auditor and evaluated the quality and effectiveness of the audit procedures.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed the audit plan and monitored performance against the plan, reviewed the periodic reports of KPMG to the Committee that highlighted key areas of focus during the audit and the applied audit approach, and obtained feedback from the finance department in respect to quality and status of KPMG work in the course of the audit.
The Committee concluded that the audit process during the year was effective: Reviewed and discussed the principal areas of financial reporting risk, as highlighted above, and reported to the Board.
Page 100 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 100 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Audit Committee Report continued KPMG has been the external auditor of the Group since the first audit of the consolidated financial statements in 2008.
The total fees to KPMG for the year ended 31 December 2015 were $0.5 million, of which $49 thousand were for non-audit services primarily related to tax compliance services see note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee has considered the recent European Union audit reforms in terms of tendering and auditors tenure.
Given that the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange during 2014 and became a public interest entity PIE, the next anticipated requirement to tender audit will be for the 2024 calendar year.
Internal audit Given the size and composition of the Group, taking into account relevant significant matters, risk areas, areas of judgement in relation to the Groups financial statements, and the centralised internal controls system in respect to the Groups financial reporting process, the Board did not consider it necessary to have an internal audit function during the year.
The Board will keep this decision under annual review.
