Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Directors are committed to a high standard of corporate governance and compliance with the best practice of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010 and revised in September 2014.
The Code is available at the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
During the twelve months ended 31 December 2015, the Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the Code with the following exceptions: Contrary to provision A.
3.1 of the Code, Mark Pritchard, an Executive Director who served as our Chairman since our IPO, was not deemed to be independent.
At the time of Admission, the Board deemed it appropriate that our company founder lead the Company through the IPO in the role of Chairman.
Peter Dolan, our former Senior Independent Director, succeeded Mark Pritchard as NonExecutive Chairman effective as of the conclusion of the AGM held in May 2015.
Contrary to provision D. 1.3 of the Code, certain Non-Executive Directors hold restricted ordinary shares that vest over time.
These shares were granted to the Non-Executive Directors prior to the IPO and do not have performance conditions.
The Board does not believe that ownership of these shares impacts the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
Contrary to provision D. 1.3 of the Code, certain Non-Executive Directors hold restricted stock units RSUs that vest over time.
These RSUs were granted to the Non-Executive Directors in 2015 and do not have performance conditions.
The Board does not believe that ownership of these RSUs impacts the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
Contrary to provision E. 2.4 of the Code, the complexities faced by the Company in collating information for its first Annual Report meant that it was considered to be in the best interests of shareholders not to rush publication.
Accordingly, shareholders received less than the 20 working days notice recommended by the Code in respect of the Companys AGM in 2015.
However, the Company has complied with and exceeded the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 to provide shareholders with 21 clear days notice of the AGM and intends to meet the recommendation of the Code in future years.
Further explanation as to how the provisions set out in the Code have been applied by the Company is provided in the following statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Committee Report and the Strategic Report.
The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, is required to review whether the above statements reflect the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance: no such report has been made.
The Board Role and Responsibilities of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Group as a whole, providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of controls for assessing and managing risk: defining, challenging and interrogating the Groups strategic aims and direction: maintaining the policy and decisionmaking framework in which such strategic aims are implemented: ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet strategic aims: monitoring performance against key financial and non-financial indicators: succession planning: overseeing the system of risk management: setting values and standards in governance matters and monitoring policies and performance on corporate social responsibility.
The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that obligations to shareholders and other Page 57 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 57 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued stakeholders are understood and met and a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
All Directors are equally accountable to the Companys shareholders for the proper stewardship of its affairs and the long-term success of the Group.
The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are directly responsible for running the business operations and the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for constructively challenging proposals on strategy, scrutinising the performance of management, determining levels of remuneration and for succession planning for the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors must also satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and exercises control over the performance of the Group by agreeing on budgetary targets and monitoring performance against those targets.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management, as described on pages 65 to 66.
Any decisions made by the Board on policies and strategy to be adopted by the Group or changes to current policies and strategy are made following presentations by the Executive Directors and a detailed process of review and challenge by the Board.
Once made, the Executive Directors are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
Except for a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for decision and approval by the Board, the Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Group to the Chief Executive Officer who is supported by the Executive Directors and other members of the senior management team.
The schedule of matters reserved for Board decision and approval are those significant to the Group as a whole due to their strategic, financial or reputational implications.
This schedule is reviewed and updated regularly and currently includes those matters set forth below: Approval and monitoring of the Groups strategic aims and objectives, and approval of the annual operating budget.
Strategic acquisitions by the Group.
Major disposals of the Groups assets or subsidiaries.
Changes to the Groups capital structure, the issue of any securities and material borrowing of the Group.
Approval of the annual report and half-year results statement, accounting policies and practices or any matter having a material impact on future financial performance of the Group.
Ensuring a sound system of internal control and risk management.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued to shareholders governed by the FCAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Rules or Transparency Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Approving Board appointments and removals, and approving policies relating to directors remuneration.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Approval of terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
Page 58 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 58 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Considering and, where appropriate, approving directors conflicts of interest.
Approval, subject to shareholder approval, of the appointment and remuneration of the auditors.
Major changes in employee share schemes.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available on request from the Company Secretary or within the Investors section of the Groups website at www.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to certain committees that assist the Board in carrying out its functions and ensure independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
The three principal Board committees Audit, Remuneration and Nomination play an essential role in supporting the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities and ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group.
Each committee has its own terms of reference which set out the specific matters for which delegated authority has been given by the Board.
The initial terms of reference for each of the committees, which are fully compliant with the provisions of the Code and which reflect both best practice and the recommendations arising from the external evaluation process undergone by the Board and its committees in connection with the Companys IPO, were adopted by the Board during 2014.
These were reviewed in January 2015 and August 2015, and will be reviewed annually on an ongoing basis and updated where necessary.
All of these are available on request from the Company Secretary or within the Investors section of the Groups website at www.
Board Size and Composition As at 31 December 2015, there were five Directors on the Board: the Non-Executive Chairman, one Executive Director and three Non-Executive Directors.
During the year, Kevin Sharer joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in June 2015, and Mark Pritchard resigned from the Board in September 2015.
Subsequent to year end, Jill Smith joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 2016.
The biographies of all of the Directors are provided on pages 46 and 47.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 97.
The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board, and in particular the Nomination Committee, to ensure there is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills and experience on the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association allow appointment of Directors by ordinary resolution and require all Directors to submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the Companys AGM following their first appointment and thereafter at each AGM in respect of which they have held office for the two preceding AGMs and did not retire at either of them.
In addition, each director who has held office with the Company for a continuous period of nine years or more must retire and offer themselves up for re-election at every AGM.
However, because the Company is a FTSE 350 company, in accordance with the Code, all Directors will submit themselves for annual election or re-election by shareholders at the AGM of the Company to be held on 26 May 2016 2016 AGM.
New directors may be appointed by the Board, but their appointment is subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
The Board recommends to shareholders the reappointment of all Directors retiring at the meeting and offering themselves for rePage 59 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 59 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued election on the basis that independent performance reviews demonstrated that they contribute effectively and continue to display the appropriate level of commitment in their respective roles.
Diversity The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains talented people to deliver outstanding performance and further enhance the success of the Company.
In that culture, diversity across a range of criteria is valued, primarily in relation to skills, knowledge and experience and also in other criteria such as gender and ethnicity.
The Company will give careful consideration to issues of overall Board balance and diversity in making new appointments to the Board and, in identifying suitable candidates, the Nomination Committee will seek candidates from a range of backgrounds, with the final decision being based on merit against objective criteria.
In addition, the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee include a requirement for the Committee to consider diversity, including gender, in evaluating the composition of the Board and in identifying suitable candidates for Board appointments.
A breakdown of employee gender showing the percentage of persons who were Directors of the Company and senior managers during the period covered by this Annual Report can be found on page 69.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide a wide range of skills and experience to the Group.
They bring their own senior level of experience in each of their respective fields, robust opinions and an independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, risk and people.
They are well-placed to constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management at Board and Committee meetings.
The Code sets out the circumstances that should be relevant to the Board in determining whether each Non-Executive Director is independent.
The Board considers non-executive director independence on an annual basis as part of each non-executive directors performance evaluation.
Having undertaken this review and with due regard to provision B.
1.1 of the Code, the Board has concluded this year that all of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship or circumstance which could materially influence or interfere with, or affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain the approval of the Chairman before taking on any further appointments and the Chairman and Executive Director require the approval of the Board before adding to their commitments.
In all cases, the Directors must ensure that their external appointments do not involve excessive time commitment or cause a conflict of interest.
The Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Peter Dolan is the current Chairman.
Mark Pritchard was the Executive Chairman until he stepped down and Peter Dolan was appointed Non-Executive Chairman in May 2015.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and conduct of the Board, the conduct of the Groups affairs and strategy and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the full and effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors at Board and Committee meetings, ensures that they are kept well informed and ensures a constructive relationship between the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman also ensures that the Board committees carry out their duties, including reporting back to the Board either orally or in writing following their meetings at the next Board meeting.
Page 60 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 60 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued The role of the Chief Executive Officer, Chris Silva, is to lead the delivery of the strategy and the executive management of the Group and its operating businesses.
He is responsible, amongst other things, for the development and implementation of strategy and processes which enable the Group to meet the requirements of shareholders, for delivering the operating plans and budgets for the Groups businesses, monitoring business performance against key performance indicators KPIs and reporting on these to the Board and for providing the appropriate environment to recruit, engage, retain and develop the high quality personnel needed to deliver the Groups strategy.
Senior Independent Director Rick Davis is the current Senior Independent Director.
Peter Dolan was the Senior Independent Director until he was appointed Chairman in May 2015, and Rick Davis was appointed Senior Independent Director in August 2015.
A key responsibility of the Senior Independent Director is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director serves as an intermediary between the rest of the Board and the Chairman where necessary and takes the lead when the Non-Executive Directors assess the Chairmans performance and when the appointment of a new Chairman is considered.
Further, the Senior Independent Director will lead the Board in its deliberations on any matters on which the Chairman is conflicted.
Board Support The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that the Board is advised on governance matters and relevant regulatory matters.
All Directors have access to the impartial advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and a contractual Deed of Indemnity, directors have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred to third parties as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage where a director is proved to have acted fraudulently or with willful misconduct.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
Board Meetings and Decisions The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as when required by business need.
The Board had six scheduled Board meetings in 2015.
During their term of service, each of the Directors were present at all meetings during the year.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also met without the presence of the Executive Directors four times during the year.
The schedule of Board and Committee meetings each year is, so far as is possible, determined before the commencement of that year and all Directors or, if appropriate, all Committee members are expected to attend each meeting.
Supplementary meetings of the Board and or the Committees are held as and when necessary.
Each member of the Board receives detailed Board packs, including an agenda based upon the schedule of matters reserved for its approval, appropriate reports and briefing papers in advance of each scheduled meeting.
If a director is unable to attend a meeting due to exceptional circumstances, he or she will still receive the supporting papers and is expected to discuss any matters he or she wishes to raise with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary work together to ensure that the Directors receive relevant information to enable them Page 61 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 61 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued to discharge their duties and that such information is accurate, timely and clear.
This information includes quarterly management accounts containing analysis of performance against budget and other forecasts.
Additional information is provided as appropriate or if requested.
At each meeting, the Board receives information, reports and presentations from the Chief Executive Officer and, by invitation, other members of senior management as required.
This ensures that all Directors are aware of, and are in a position to monitor effectively, the overall performance of the Group, its development and implementation of strategy and its management of risk.
Any matter requiring a decision by the Board is supported by a paper analysing the relevant aspects of the proposal including costs, benefits, potential risks involved and proposed executive management action and recommendations.
The majority of Board meetings are held at the Groups offices in Boston, Massachusetts, USA, which gives members of the Companys senior management team, as well as the senior managers of the subsidiaries, the opportunity to formally present to the Board on business development and new investment opportunities.
This assists the Board in gaining a deeper understanding of the breadth, stage of development and diversity of the Groups subsidiaries.
During 2015, the Board held one of its scheduled meetings at one of the Companys subsidiary offices in Silicon Valley, California, USA, which is also the location of several of the Companys subsidiaries, in order to encourage further interaction with the senior management teams of those subsidiaries.
Meetings between the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, both with and without the presence of the Chief Executive Officer, are also held as the need arises.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Each director has a statutory duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may potentially conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the continuing duty that a director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company in which he or she is interested.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
The Board has established procedures for managing and, where appropriate, authorising any such conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
It is a recurring agenda item at all Board meetings and this gives the directors the opportunity to raise at the beginning of every Board meeting, any actual of potential conflict of interests that they may have on the matters to be discussed, or to update the Board on any change to a previous conflict of interest already declared.
In deciding whether to authorise any conflict, the directors must have regard to their general duties under the CA 2006 and their overriding obligation to act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, the directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation to a conflict or potential conflict of interest if they think this is appropriate.
The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of any authorisation, may be reviewed by the Board at any time.
The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Induction, Awareness and Development A comprehensive induction process is in place for new directors.
The programme is tailored to the needs of each individual director and agreed with him or her so that he or she can gain a better understanding of the Group and its businesses.
This will generally include an overview of the Group and its businesses, structure, functions and strategic aims: site visits to the Groups head office in Boston, Massachusetts, Page 62 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 62 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued USA: and, upon request, site visits to a number of the Groups subsidiary companies, which will include meeting with such companies management and a presentation from them on their businesses.
In addition, the Company facilitates sessions as appropriate with the Groups advisers, in particular its joint corporate brokers, Credit Suisse International and Numis Securities Limited, as well as with appropriate governance specialists, to ensure that any new directors are fully aware of and understand their responsibilities and obligations as a director of a FTSE 350 company and of the governance framework within which they must operate.
In order to ensure that the Directors continue to further their understanding of the issues facing the Group, the Board is also exposed to the early-stage opportunities in which the Group has invested through presentations at Board meetings by relevant members of the Groups staff.
In addition, other members of senior management present to the Board to enhance the Boards awareness of how the Group operates on a day-to-day basis and how such functions operate so as to assist in the execution of the Groups core strategy of systematically developing an innovation company that forms, funds, manages and builds start-ups based on early-stage technology originating from US universities and federally funded research institutions.
As a further aspect of their ongoing development, each Director also receives feedback on his or her performance following the Boards performance evaluation in each year and, through the Company Secretary, access is facilitated to relevant training and development opportunities including those relevant to the Non-Executive Directors membership on the Boards committees.
Board Effectiveness and Performance Evaluation A performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees is carried out annually to ensure that they continue to be effective and that each of the Directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
The Board will seek the assistance of an independent third party provider at least once every three years in its evaluation in compliance with the Code, and otherwise carry out an internally facilitated Board evaluation led by the Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, and covering the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, its individual Directors and its Committees.
This review will include each of the Board and Committee members completing a detailed and tailored survey and one-to-one discussions between the Chairman and each of the individual Directors.
A summary of the results of the review, together with the Chairman and Company Secretarys observations and recommendations, will be prepared and shared with members of the Board.
In addition to the above, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, will appraise the Chairmans performance, following which the Senior Independent Director will provide feedback to the Chairman.
The performance of each of the Directors on the Board will be reviewed by the Chairman and the operational performance of the other Executive Directors will be reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer as part of the annual appraisal process.
In addition to the aforementioned annual reviews, the performance of Executive Directors will be reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis, as deemed necessary, in the absence of the Executive Director under review.
During the 2015 financial year, the Board assessed its own effectiveness through an internal Board evaluation process.
This process was based on: a review of documentation including Board and committee terms of reference, the completion of a survey to Directors comprising quantitative and qualitative questions: and discussions with all Board members and a number of stakeholders who regularly interact with the Board, to include the Company Secretary.
Page 63 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 63 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued The results were analysed by the Chairman and the Company Secretary, and a detailed discussion was facilitated with the Board to outline the observations and recommendations.
Overall it was concluded that the Board continues to work effectively.
There have been a number of changes to the Board composition, resulting in a well-balanced Board with a range of skills and experience.
In an effort to continue to improve, a number of areas the Board should continue to focus on where identified to include: i continued presentations to the Board by subsidiary CEOs to increase awareness of strategic operations, ii regular Executive Director and senior management access to the Board, and iii review of detailed written monthly Board updates prepared by senior management on corporate and subsidiary operations.
Committees of the Board The composition of the three committees of the Board and the attendance of the members throughout the year is set out in the table on page 48.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on request from the Company Secretary or within the Investors section of the Groups website at www.
Remuneration and Audit Committees Separate reports on the role, composition, responsibilities and operation of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee are set out on pages 95 to 97, and pages 98 to 101, respectively.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments, re-election and succession of directors and the Chairman.
Its key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its duties.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board and its Committees concerning the composition and skills of the Board including any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new directors, the reappointment of existing directors and the appointment of members to the Boards committees.
It also assesses the roles of the existing directors in office to ensure there continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
In addition, the Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Director appointments, although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
The Committee is chaired by Rick Davis and its other members as at 31 December 2015 were Jeff Rohr and Kevin Sharer, being a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors as prescribed by the Code.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required or requested by the Board and met two times during 2015 to review the structure, size and composition of the Board, following which it discussed the conclusions with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Messrs. Davis, Rohr and Sharer were present at all meetings during the year.
Before selecting new appointees to the Board, the Nomination Committee shall consider the balance, skill, knowledge, independence, diversity including gender and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable balance is maintained.
The Committee shall adopt a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Consideration shall always be given as to whether identified candidates have sufficient time available to devote to the role.
When searching for appropriate candidates, the Committee shall give consideration to using an external search company, but may also Page 64 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 64 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued consider candidates who are proposed by existing Board members or employees of the Group.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board.
The appointment of a candidate is the responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation from the Committee.
The Committee did not use the services of an external search company in 2015.
As part of its annual duties in 2015, the Committee and the full Board completed a very active year which resulted in 1 the appointment of Peter Dolan as Non-Executive Chairman in May 2015, 2 the appointment of Kevin Sharer as a Non-Executive Director in June 2015, 3 the appointment of Rick Davis as Senior Independent Director in August 2015, and 4 the appointment of Jill Smith as a Non-Executive Director in January 2016.
In the year ahead, the Nomination Committee will continue to assess the Boards size and composition and how it may be enhanced.
Internal control The Board fully recognises the importance of the guidance contained in Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting Financial Reporting Council.
The Groups internal controls, which are Groupwide, were in place during the whole of 2015, were reviewed by the Board and Audit Committee and were considered to be effective throughout the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Board and Audit Committee are responsible for establishing and monitoring internal control systems and for reviewing the effectiveness of these systems.
The Board views the effective operation of a rigorous system of internal control as critical to the success of the Group: however, it recognises that such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the Groups internal control system, all of which have been in place during the financial year and up to the date these financial statements were approved, are as follows: Control environment and procedures The Group has a clear organisational structure with defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
It adopts the highest values surrounding quality, integrity and ethics, and these values are documented and communicated clearly throughout the whole organisation.
Detailed written policies and procedures have been established covering key operating and compliance risk areas.
These are reviewed and updated at least once a year.
The effectiveness of the systems of internal control is reviewed at least annually by the Board.
The Board considers that the controls have been effective for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Identification and evaluation of risks The Board actively identifies and evaluates the risks inherent in the business, and ensures that appropriate controls and procedures are in place to manage these risks.
The Board obtains an update regarding the subsidiary businesses on a monthly basis, and reviews the performance of the Group and its subsidiaries on a quarterly basis, although performance of specific investments may be reviewed more frequently if deemed appropriate.
The Board also obtains a risk management report from members of senior management on a regular basis.
The key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, as well as the relevant mitigations, are set out on pages 40 to 45.
Page 65 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 65 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Information and financial reporting systems The Group evaluates and manages significant risks associated with the process for preparing consolidated accounts by having in place systems and controls that ensure adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Board approves the annual operating budgets and each quarter receives details of actual performance measured against the budget.
Principal risks and uncertainties The operations of the Group and the implementation of its objectives and strategy are subject to a number of key risks and uncertainties.
Risks are formally reviewed by the Board and Audit Committee at least annually and appropriate procedures are put in place to monitor and, to the extent possible, mitigate these risks.
Where more than one of the risks to occur together, the overall impact on the Group may be compounded.
A summary of the key risks affecting the Group and the steps taken to manage these is set out on pages 40 to 45.
Relations with stakeholders The Company is committed to a continuous dialogue with shareholders as it believes that this is essential to ensure a greater understanding of and confidence amongst its shareholders in the medium and longer term strategy of the Group.
It is the responsibility of the Board as a whole to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue does take place.
The Boards primary shareholder contact is through the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Senior Independent Director and other Directors, as appropriate, make themselves available for contact with major shareholders and other stakeholders in order to understand their issues and concerns.
The Company uses the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders.
Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 1 p. m. BST on 26 May 2016 at the offices of DLA Piper LLP, 1 London Wall, London EC2Y 5EA, United Kingdom, is enclosed with this report.
In accordance with the Code, the Notice of AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Details of the resolutions and the explanatory notes thereto are included with the Notice.
To ensure compliance with the Code, the Board proposes separate resolutions for each issue and proxy forms allow shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM to vote for or against or to withhold their vote on each resolution.
The results of all proxy voting shall be published on the Groups website after the meeting and at the meeting itself to those shareholders who attend.
Shareholders who attend the AGM will have the opportunity to ask questions and the Chairman and the Executive Directors are expected to be available to take questions.
The Groups website at www.
com is the primary source of information on the Group.
The website includes an overview of the activities of the Group, details of its subsidiary companies and its key university and federal government partnerships, and details of all recent Group and subsidiary business announcements.
Political expenditure It is the Boards policy not to incur political expenditure or otherwise make cash contributions to political parties and it has no intention of changing that policy.
Page 66 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 66 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate Governance Report continued Going concern The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
