Governance Corporate governance Chairmans introduction The Group has been in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and its predecessor versions since Admission to listing on the London Stock Exchange on 17 October 2006, except where the Directors consider that in particular limited circumstances, departure may be justified and explained.
No departures from the Code occurred during the year under review.
In September 2014 a further version of the Code the 2014 Code was issued effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 which Ashmore will be adopting for the financial year ending 30 June 2016.
References herein to the Code are therefore to the 2012 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report describes the Groups corporate governance arrangements, explaining how it has applied the principles of the Code.
Michael Benson Chairman The roles of the Chairman and Chief during the financial reporting period ending Directors Executive Officer are separate, clearly on 30 June 2015.
The Board of Directors comprises two defined and have been approved by the Executive Directors and six independent The Board meets a minimum of six times Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the Non-executive Directors.
The two Executive during the year to review financial effective conduct of the Board, while the Directors are Mark Coombs, the Chief performance and strategy and to follow Chief Executive Officer is responsible for Executive Officer, and Tom Shippey, the the formal schedule of matters reserved for execution of strategy and for the day-to-day Group Finance Director.
Comprehensive Board papers, management of the Group.
Non-executive Directors are Michael Benson, comprising an agenda and formal reports Chairman: Nick Land, Senior Independent In considering Non-executive Director and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in Director: Simon Fraser, Dame Anne Pringle, independence, the Board has taken into advance of each meeting.
Throughout their David Bennett and Peter Gibbs.
consideration the guidance provided by period in office, Directors are continually Melda Donnelly retired from the Board the Code.
The Board considers Michael updated by means of written and verbal on 30 October 2014 and David Bennett was Benson, Nick Land, Simon Fraser, Dame reports from senior executives and external appointed on the same date, Peter Gibbs Anne Pringle, David Bennett and Peter Gibbs advisers on the Groups business, and the was appointed on 29 April 2015 and Charles to be independent.
Nick Land is the Senior competitive and regulatory environments Outhwaite resigned on 22 May 2015.
in which it operates, as well as on legal, the exception of the changes described all compliance, corporate governance, other Directors served throughout the year.
During the year under review the Group corporate social responsibility and other complied with the Code requirement that at relevant matters.
The Board has a schedule of matters least half of the Board consist of independent specifically reserved to it for decision and Directors excluding the Chairman.
In addition to its formal business, the approval, which include, but are not limited to: Board received a number of briefings and As required by new UK Listing Rules presentations from executive management the Groups long-term commercial introduced in 2014, the Company entered during the year covering a wide range of objectives and strategy: into a relationship agreement with Mark topics across the range of the Groups major acquisitions, disposals and Coombs, effective 1 July 2014.
All Directors have access to investments: confirms that the Company and Mark independent professional advice, if required, Coombs have entered into the relationship the Groups annual and interim reports at the Companys expense, as well as to the agreement required under UK Listing Rule and financial statements: advice and services of the Company 9.2.
2AR 2 a : and that: i the Company has interim dividend and recommendation Secretary.
New Directors appointed to the complied with the independence provisions of final dividend: Board will receive advice as to the legal and included in that agreement: ii so far as the other duties and obligations arising from the annual budgets and forecast updates: Company is aware, Mark Coombs has role of a director of a UK listed company internal capital adequacy assessment complied with the independence provisions within a full, formal and tailored induction.
process: included in that agreement: and iii so far as the Company is aware, Mark Coombs has significant capital expenditure: and complied with the procurement obligation the effectiveness of risk management included in that agreement pursuant to and internal control systems.
2BR 2 a, in each case Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Corporate governance continued The Company Secretary, under the Powers of the Directors Board committees direction of the Chairman, is responsible Subject to the Companys Articles, the The Board has appointed Audit and Risk, for maintaining an adequate continuing Companies Acts and any directions given Remuneration and Nominations Committees education programme, reminding the by the Company by special resolution, the to assist in the execution of its duties.
Directors of their duties and obligations on business of the Company is managed by All of these committees operate within a regular basis, ensuring good information the Board, who may exercise all powers written terms of reference, which are flows between the Board, its committees of the Company, whether relating to the reviewed annually consistent with changes and management and assisting with management of the business of the in legislation and best practice.
Directors continuing professional Company or not.
The Companys The chairman of each committee reports Biographical details of the Directors are given Nominations Committee considers the regularly to the Board.
on page 42. appointment and replacement of Directors Each of the committees is authorised, at subject to the rules set out in the Articles, Annual performance evaluation the Companys expense, to obtain external a summary of which is set out below.
The Code recommends that the Board legal or other professional advice to assist should undertake a formal annual evaluation Under the Articles, the minimum number in carrying out its duties.
Only the members of its own performance and that of its of Directors shall be two and the maximum of each committee are entitled to attend committees and individual Directors and that shall be nine.
Directors may be appointed its meetings but others, such as senior an externally facilitated evaluation should be by the Company by ordinary resolution management and external advisers, undertaken at least once every three years.
A Director appointed by the may be invited to attend as appropriate.
An independent externally facilitated Board must offer himself herself for election evaluation was undertaken by Independent Current membership of the committees at the next Annual General Meeting of the Audit which has no connection with the is shown in the relevant sections below.
Company following his appointment but he Company for the reporting year ended The composition of these committees is not taken into account in determining the 30 June 2015.
Individual meetings were is reviewed annually, taking into Directors or the number of Directors who held between each Director and the external consideration the recommendations are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
facilitator in which issues and developments of the Nominations Committee.
The Directors to retire by rotation must over the year were discussed and be those who held office at the time of performance was considered by reference the two preceding Annual General Meetings to the objectives of the Board and its and did not retire at either of them or those committees.
The facilitator from Independent who have held office with the Company for Audit presented a detailed written report to a continuous period of nine years or more the Board and highlighted a number of key at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
strengths, including: The office of Director shall be vacated in the Board dynamics are positive and other circumstances, including where constructive i that Director resigns or is asked to resign: the executives adopt an open and ii they are or have been suffering from transparent approach to the Board mental ill-health: iii they are absent without permission of the Board from meetings there is both a clearly articulated strategy of the Board for six consecutive months: and risk appetite iv they become bankrupt or compound the Boards oversight of the governance, with their creditors generally: or v they risk and compliance agenda is effective are prohibited by law from being a Director.
the Board brings strong focus on Notwithstanding these provisions the Board shareholder interests.
7.1 of the Code and, The review also highlighted areas where with the exception of Michael Benson who further improvements could be made and will not be seeking re-election and who will these were discussed by the Board together retire from the Board at the conclusion of and a list of action points agreed.
the meeting, all Directors will retire and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting The Board believes that, following the on 22 October 2015.
The Listing Rules require completion of the performance evaluation, that the election re-election of independent the performance of the Chairman and the directors be by a majority of votes cast by Directors continues to be effective and that independent shareholders as well as by a they continue to demonstrate commitment majority of votes cast by all shareholders.
These rules apply to the Ashmore Group plc Annual General Meeting that will be held on 22 October 2015.
44 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Board and committee attendance The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by the Directors.
Any Directors who are not members of Board committees are also invited to attend meetings of all such committees.
Board and committee attendance Nominations Audit and Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings scheduled between 1 July 2014 and 2 July 2015 6 3 4 5 Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% 1 Mark Coombs 100% 1 Tom Shippey 100% Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% 2 Melda Donnelly 100% 100% 100% Simon Fraser 100% 100% 100% 100% 3 Charles Outhwaite 100% 100% 100% Dame Anne Pringle 100% 100% 4 David Bennett 100% 100% 5 Peter Gibbs 100% 1.
Members of executive management are invited to attend Board committee meetings as required but do not attend as members of those committees.
The Group Finance Director attends all meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Melda Donnelly retired from the Board on 30 October 2014.
Charles Outhwaite resigned on 22 May 2015.
David Bennett was appointed to the Board on 30 October 2014 and joined the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 July 2015.
Peter Gibbs was appointed to the Board on 29 April 2015.
Corporate Governance Framework plc Board of Directors plc Remuneration Committee Responsible for overall strategy, management and control Determines compensation for Code Staff and reviews compensation for Control Staff plc Audit and Risk Committee plc Executive Directors Separate detailed terms of reference in line with corporate governance best practice Management Committees Responsible for overseeing business, investments and internal controls Auditors Investment Committees Operating Committee External: Systems and Controls Risk and Compliance Independent assurance via audit of Group Financial Review Committee Committee Statements and audit of internal control procedures Pricing Methodology and Pricing Oversight under ISAE 3402 Valuation Committee Committee Product Committee Foreign Exchange Internal: Management Committee Global Investment Independent assurance via audit directed at specific Performance Standards IT Steering Group departmental control procedures Committee Best Execution Committee Senior Management Responsible for day-to-day management Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Audit and risk committee report overseeing and challenging the day-to-day I am pleased to submit the Activities risk management and oversight The Audit and Risk Committee met four arrangements of the executive and the report on the activities of the times during the year.
The activities of the design and execution of stress and Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee are described scenario testing: for the financial year ended on pages 47 and 48. overseeing and challenging due diligence 30 June 2015. on risk issues relating to material During the year under review the transactions and strategic proposals that following Non-executive Directors served Following the departure are subject to approval by the Board: on the Audit and Risk Committee, the of Charles Outhwaite on membership of which was compliant considering and approving the remit of 22 May 2015 wewelcomed with the Code: the internal audit and risk management David Bennett as a member of functions and ensuring that they have Nick Land Chairman adequate independence: the Committee on 1 July 2015.
Melda Donnelly monitoring and reviewing the scope, David has many years Charles Outhwaite extent and effectiveness of the activities experience in senior financial Simon Fraser of the Internal audit function in the roles and his knowledge and context of the Companys overall risk David Bennett expertise is greatly welcomed.
management systems: Melda Donnelly retired from the reviewing the external auditors plan for the Nick Land Committee on 30 October 2014 and audit of the Groups financial statements, Committee Chairman Charles Outhwaite stepped down on receiving and reviewing confirmations of 22 May 2015.
David Bennett was auditor independence and approving the appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee terms of engagement and proposed fees on 1 July 2015.
All other members of for the audit: the Audit and Risk Committee served reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness throughout the year.
and quality of the external audit: reviewing the level and amount of external auditor non-audit services: making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to shareholders to approve the reappointment of the The Board is satisfied that for the year under A report on the activities of the Audit and external auditor: review and thereafter Nick Land, Melda Risk Committee is set out below.
reviewing the Companys arrangements Donnelly, Simon Fraser, Charles Outhwaite The terms of reference for the Audit and for its employees to raise concerns, in and David Bennett had and have recent and Risk Committee include: confidence, about possible wrongdoing relevant commercial and financial knowledge in financial reporting or other matters: and experience to satisfy the provisions of monitoring and challenging the integrity of reviewing the Audit and Risk Committees the Code.
Nick Land and Melda Donnelly are the financial statements of the Company, terms of reference, carrying out an annual Chartered Accountants, Simon Fraser has any formal announcements relating to the performance evaluation exercise and previously served as Global Chief Investment Companys financial statements or noting the satisfactory operation of the Officer with Fidelity International, Charles performance and any significant financial Committee: and Outhwaite is a corporate financier issues and judgements contained in them: specialising in the investment management reporting to the Board on how it has reviewing the contents of the Annual industry and David Bennett has served as discharged its responsibilities.
Report and Accounts and advising the Group Finance Director and the Group Chief Board on whether, taken as a whole, Executive of Alliance and Leicester plc.
they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: 46 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance The Audit and Risk Committee has requested Financial statements Impairment review of the carrying value and received reports from management The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed of goodwill and intangible assets to enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms the FY2014 15 annual report, interim results, As more fully explained in note 15 on page of reference.
preliminary results and reports from the 97, the goodwill balance within the Group external auditor, KPMG LLP, on the outcome relates principally to the acquisition of The Audit and Risk Committee also has of its reviews and audits in 2015.
Emerging Markets Management LLC responsibility for reviewing the Companys EMM in May 2011.
During the year ended arrangements on whistleblowing, ensuring Significant accounting matters 30 June 2015 the Committee reviewed the that appropriate arrangements are in place for During the year the Audit and Risk analyses performed by management on employees to be able to raise, in confidence, Committee considered key accounting goodwill and intangibles and received a matters of possible impropriety, with suitable issues, matters and judgements in relation report from the external auditors andagreed subsequent follow-up action.
to the Groups financial statements and that an impairment charge against the value disclosures relating to: The Audit and Risk Committee has the of fund management relationships of authority to seek any information it requires 0.4m was appropriate.
Classification of seed capital investments to perform its duties from any employee Ashmore makes seed capital investments Following the sale of one of the entities of the Company and to obtain outside legal in funds that are managed by Group in the Everbright joint venture platform the or other independent professional advice subsidiaries in order to support future Committee considered whether the net as appropriate.
These investments present value of the residue was higher can result in Ashmore becoming a controlling The number of Audit and Risk Committee than the carrying value and concluded party in the funds.
If at the time of investing meetings and their attendance by the that no impairment charge be made.
in these funds Ashmore expects the period Directors are set out in the table on page 45.
Share-based payments of control to be less than 12 months, the Representatives of KPMG LLP, the Group It is the responsibility of the Remuneration investments are classified as held-for-sale Finance Director, Group Head of Risk and Committee to address, and report upon, HFS and consolidated as HFS assets and Group Internal Auditor attend each meeting compensation matters including share-based liabilities rather than on a line-by-line basis.
as a matter of practice and presentations payments made to Directors and employees In determining whether the Group controls are made by the executive management of the Group.
The Audit and Risk Committee these funds, there are three factors which as required.
considers these in its review of the financial are taken into consideration, namely The principal activities of the Audit and Risk statements and receives a report from the 1 whether Ashmore has power over the Committee through the year, and the manner external auditor on the quantification and relevant activities of the funds: 2 whether in which it discharged its responsibilities, accounting treatment related to such Ashmore is exposed to variability of returns were as follows: payments, which are explained in note through fees and or co-investments: and 10 to the financial statements.
3 the strength of the linkage between the Meetings power and the variable returns.
The third The Audit and Risk Committee metfour Revenue rebates factor is one of the key judgmental areas that times in relation to the current financial During the year the Audit and Risk KPMG focuses upon in its audit due to the reporting year as part of its standard process.
Committee received a management report potential risk that Ashmore has incorrectly Meetings of the Committee generally take from the external auditor regarding the assessed the strength of the linkage place on the day prior to a Board meeting to processing of fee rebates and its treatment between the power and the variable returns.
maximise the efficiency of interaction with on revenue recognition.
The method of The accounting treatment for seed capital the Board.
The Chairman of the Audit and accounting for revenue recognition is investments is addressed more fully in Risk Committee reports to the Board, as part described more fully on page 86.
The note 20 on pages 102 to 104 of the of a separate agenda item, on the activities Audit and Risk Committee also received financial statements.
All Non-executive updates from management regarding Directors are invited to attend meetings the implementation of a new system of the Audit and Risk Committee.
to automate management fee rebate calculations.
This system was a key focus The Chairman of the Audit and Risk for the external auditor and the Audit and Committee also meets on a regular basis, Risk Committee received a management outside of scheduled committee meetings, report regarding the controls surrounding with the Group Head of Internal Audit, the system as well as the processing of the Group Head of Risk Management and management fee rebate calculations and Control, the Group Head of Compliance, subsequent payments.
the Group Finance Director and the external auditors.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Audit and risk committee report continued The provision of tax advisory services, due Future IFRS and UK GAAP developments External auditor independence diligence transaction services and litigation The Audit and Risk Committee has The Audit and Risk Committee has agreed services may be permitted with the Audit received a report from management and the types of permitted and non-permitted and Risk Committees prior approval.
the auditor and discussed future accounting non-audit services and those which require The provision of internal audit services, developments likely to affect the presentation explicit prior approval.
All contracts for valuation work and any other activity that of the Groups financial statements.
non-audit services in excess of 25,000 must may give rise to any possibility of self-review be notified to the Chairman of the Audit and Other accounting matters are not permitted under any circumstance.
Risk Committee and approved by him.
During the year, the Audit and Risk During the year there were no circumstances Committee received communications from During the year the value of non-audit where KPMG LLP was engaged to provide management and from the external auditor services provided by KPMG LLP amounted services which might have led to a conflict on other accounting matters.
The Committee to 0.5 million FY2013 14: 0.4 million.
has also reviewed the adoption of the going Non-audit services as a proportion of total concern basis in preparing the interim and The Committee has considered the impact fees paid to the auditor amount to year end consolidated accounts.
on the Company of EU legislation introduced approximately 50%.
The overall quantum in June 2014 which serves to reform the of non-audit services is not considered UK Corporate Governance Code audit market within the EU.
The areas to be significant given that Ashmore A further version of the Code the 2014 Code considered were: operates within a highly-regulated market was issued effective for accounting periods and that a significant proportion of the beginning on or after 1 October 2014, which Mandatory audit firm rotation is required non-audit services provided relate to the Ashmore intends to adoptfor the financial after 20 years and a re-tender process following matters: year ending 30 June 2016. every 10 years.
KPMG has acted as the Groups auditors since the listing in 2006 reporting on the half year financial External auditor and it is therefore the intention that KPMG statements: The external auditor attends all meetings will re-tender for the audit in relation to the providing regular mandatory assurance of the Audit and Risk Committee.
It is the year ending 30 June 2017. reports to the FCA as the regulator of responsibility of the Committee to monitor Restrictions on non-audit services: Ashmore Investment Management the performance, objectivity and The new legislation restricts the non-audit Limited and Ashmore Investment independence of the external auditor.
services which can be provided by the Advisors Limited : The Audit and Risk Committee discusses auditor.
Ashmore has reviewed the tax and agrees the scope of the audit plan for the provision of certain tax compliance services currently provided by KPMG the full year and the review plan for the services: across the Group and concluded that, interim statement with the auditor.
reporting on internal controls in Ashmores going forward, none of these services can offices in London, Washington D. C. and The external auditor provides reports at each be undertaken by KPMG on the basis of Singapore as required under ISAE 3402 committee meeting on topics such as the the prohibitions included in the legislation.
pursuant to investment management control environment, key accounting matters Following a tender process Deloitte has industry standards: and and mandatory communications.
The Audit been appointed to provide such and Risk Committee also received a auditing the controls and procedures independent tax advice services.
comprehensive presentation from the auditor employed by the Company relating to the Non-audit service fee limits: The legislation demonstrating, to the Committees production of investment performance also imposes a fee cap of 70% of the satisfaction, how its independence and figures over one, three and five-year average statutory audit fees paid in the objectivity is maintained when providing periods to conform to the investment last three consecutive years.
This cap will non-audit services.
management industrys Global Investment enable KPMG to continue to undertake Performance Standards.
assurance, verification and reporting work in other permitted areas described above The assurance provided by the Group such as to the FCA, Global Investment external auditor on the items listed above is Performance Standards and ISAE 3402. considered by the Audit and Risk Committee to be strictly necessary in the interests of the business and, by their nature, these services could not easily be provided by another professional auditing firm.
48 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance From time to time during the year the The Audit and Risk Committee also received Non-executive Directors met with the an annual report on, and conducted a review external and internal auditors without the and evaluation of, the system of internal Executive Directors being present so as controls and risk management operated to provide a forum to raise any matters within the Company pursuant to the Financial of concern in confidence.
Reporting Council guidance, Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and KPMG LLP and its prior entity KPMG Related Financial and Business Reporting, Audit plc have acted as the auditor to the prior to final review by the Board.
Company since the IPO in October 2006 and the lead audit partner rotates every five years Internal audit to assure independence.
The Audit and Risk Committee has received regular reports on the findings of the internal In order to assess the effectiveness of the auditor and on the proposed programme external audit process the Audit and Risk of reviews.
The Committee also received Committee asked detailed questions of a comprehensive presentation from the key members of management as well as internal auditor on effective internal audit considering the firm-wide audit quality in the financial services sector.
inspection report issued by the FRC in May 2014 and KPMGs response to the findings Cyber security inspection.
Based on this review the The Audit and Risk Committee has received Committee concurred with managements reports and updates from the Ashmore view that there had been appropriate focus IT Department on potential cyber security and challenge of the primary areas of audit threats and how Ashmore would respond risk and assessed the quality of the audit to to a significant event.
Accordingly, the Audit and Public funds audits Risk Committee continues to be satisfied The Audit and Risk Committee met with with the work of KPMG LLP and that it and received reports from the independent continues to remain objective and auditors of Ashmores SICAV, US 40-Act and independent.
The Committee has therefore Guernsey public funds on the conduct of recommended to the Board that a resolution those audits and outcomes from them.
be put to shareholders for the reappointment of the auditor, and its remuneration and Audit and Risk Committee terms of engagement, at the Annual General effectiveness Meeting of the Company.
An independently facilitated review of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees Internal controls and risk and the Directors was conducted in management systems accordance with provision B.
The Group Head of Risk Management and Following the review the members of Control attends each meeting of the the Committee have concluded that it is Committee and provides reports to each.
These reports have addressed a number of risk-related topics and have demonstrated Nick Land how the output of the different Investment, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Risk and Compliance and Pricing and Valuation Methodology Committees 7 September 2015 discussions throughout the period have been effective in highlighting, tracking and contributing towards managing key market, liquidity, credit, counterparty and operational risks.
In particular, in relation to operational risk, the Audit and Risk Committee has also reviewed and discussed the GroupsPrincipal Risk Matrix which continues to serve as an effective tool to highlight and monitor the principal risks facing the Group and its continued evolution, and reflects changes in the business profile of the Group and the corresponding impact on internal controls and related processes.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Nominations committee report During the year the activities Activities The Committee met three times during of the Nominations Committee the year.
The principal items considered at have included reviewing the the meetings were the sourcing of new, requirements for potential and succession planning for, Non-executive Directors and the composition of existing independent Non-executive Board committees.
candidates for appointment During the year under review the to the Board, proposals for Nominations Committee comprised the re-election of Directors at the following Non-executive Directors and Annual General Meeting, and was fully compliant with the Code: reviewing its terms of reference.
Michael Benson Chairman Michael Benson Nick Land Chairman Melda Donnelly Simon Fraser Melda Donnelly retired on 30 October 2014.
All other members of the Nominations Committee served throughout the year.
The terms of reference for the Nominations The members of the Nomination Committee include: Committee have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and reviewing the structure, size and knowledge of the Company to enable them composition including the skills, to discharge their respective duties and knowledge and experience of the responsibilities effectively.
Board and its committees: During the year the activities of the reviewing annually the time required Nominations Committee have included from each Non-executive Director, using reviewing the requirements for potential performance evaluation to assess whether independent Non-executive candidates the Non-executive Director is giving for appointment to the Board, proposals sufficient commitment to the role: for re-election of Directors at the Annual giving full consideration to succession General Meeting, and reviewing its terms of planning in the course of its work, reference.
For the recent Board recruitments taking into account the challenges and the Nominations Committee engaged opportunities facing the Company and Egon Zehnder, which has no connection what skills and expertise are needed on to the Group.
the Board in the future: and The number of Nominations Committee ensuring that on appointment to the Board, meetings and their attendance by the Non-executive Directors receive a formal Directors are set out in the table on page 45. letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and Michael Benson involvement outside Board meetings.
Chairman 7 September 2015 50 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015
