Directors and corporate governance report continued Risk Committee report As Chairman of the Committee, I am pleased to present the Risk Committees report for the year ended 31 December 2015 The Companys approach to risk and risk framework including the risk management management together with the principal function itself.
risk types that face the Group are As part of our activities, we review the explained on pages 62 to 65. risks inherent in our investment portfolios During the year, market conditions and in the insurance products we offer our generally have offered some challenges clients, as well as the operational risks and the acquisition and integration of the present in the business.
Friends Life business, ensuring our We consider the effectiveness of the readiness for Solvency II SII and the ways in which the risks are managed, the evolving cyber risk environment have all strength of contingency planning and the required close attention.
adequacy of our capital and liquidity resources in the context of the residual risks facing the Group and recommend risk appetites to the Board.
Committee Membership We also monitor potential changes to What have been some of the Member since: the prudential regulations applicable to highlights from the year?
Michael Hawker, 01 01 2010 the Group and how the Group is During the year the Committee spent time Chairman responding to them.
In recent years this on the following areas: Glyn Barker 02 05 2012 has been a significant activity due to the strengthening the capital and liquidity Beln Romana Garca 26 06 2015 preparations for SII and as a result of position of the Group ensuring the Michael Mire 12 09 2013 Avivas designation as a Global effective implementation of the new Bob Stein 06 03 2013 Systemically Important Insurer, and this SII framework an undertaking which will continue during 2016. has seen the Company spend in excess Scott Wheway 14 05 2015 of 400m, and understanding the Scott Wheway was appointed to the transferability of capital and Committee on 14 May 2015 and Beln The Committee reviews the seeking to address the Romana Garca was appointed as a member potential liquidity traps that risks inherent in our investment of the Committee on 26 June 2015.
Gay the new regime creates Huey Evans served on the Committee until portfolios and in the insurance reviewing the asset she retired on 29 April 2015.
The portfolio for its positioning products we offer our clients, members of the Committee are shown in to perform in the current the table above and details of members as well as the operational risks low growth, low interest attendance at Committee meetings are rate and volatile market present in the business shown in the table earlier in the directors environment and corporate governance report.
ensuring that the strategy Michael Hawker is sensible in light of the What is the main function of the Chairman, Risk Committee evolutionary changes Risk Committee?
occurring to our businesses The Committee oversees due diligence The Committee oversees all aspects of risk through changing customer appraisals carried out on strategic or management in the Group, save for preferences and regulatory change material transactions, such as the Friends conduct, financial crime, brand and reviewing that our systems are fit for Life acquisition, and also works with the reputation risk oversight, responsibility for purpose to manage our business in the Remuneration Committee to ensure that which lies with the Governance Committee.
risk management is properly considered in The principal purpose of the setting the Groups remuneration policy.
Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of risk within the Group, with particular focus on the Groups risk appetite, risk profile and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management 88 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Who attends meetings of the Committee received information and investments, business and operations, Committee?
including for example UK exit from the During 2015, the Committee met on eight As Chairman of the Committee, European Union EU.
The Chairman of the Company, I reported to subsequent meetings of the the backdrop of an ever changing cyber the Group Chief Executive Officer, Chief Board on the Committees work and the threat environment, our continued drive Audit Officer CAO, Chief Financial Officer Board received a copy of the CROs report, for efficiency and the Groups strategic and Chief Risk Officer CRO regularly the meeting agenda and the minutes of ambitions with respect to digital, the attended Committee meetings.
Other each meeting of the Committee.
Committee will continue to focus on the members of senior management were also The Committee is satisfied that it has quality of the Groups cyber security, its invited to attend as appropriate to present the resources and expertise necessary to disaster recovery plans, the simplification reports, and the Committee had access to fulfil its responsibilities.
of our IT estate and the development of the services of regular attendees as well as our digital business.
How do you ensure that risk is Finally, the Committees focus on SII The Committee holds regular private appropriately managed across the did not end with it coming into force in sessions with the CRO and the CAO to various committees ?
January 2016 and the Committee will enable them to raise any matters of We ensure that there is cross-membership spend time reviewing plans to expand the concern to them without any other between the committees and this was perimeter of the Groups approved partial members of management present.
The reviewed during 2015 to ensure that risk internal model and ensuring that changes Group Company Secretary acted as the issues continue to be appropriately to the risk management framework made secretary to the Committee.
considered in the decisions of each in response to SII are embedded within committee.
The appointments to the Risk the business.
How would you assess the Companys Committee made in May 2015 have approach and readiness for SII?
increased the cross-membership between SII has been many years in the making and the Audit, Governance, Remuneration and the Company has operated a structured, Risk Committees.
Group-wide SII programme throughout Throughout the year both Glyn Barker Michael Hawker this time and the Committee has provided and I were members of the Audit Chairman of the Risk Committee oversight.
The approach has generally Committee Glyn as Chairman of the 9 March 2016 been to build on our existing, effective risk Audit Committee, ensuring that there management framework and model, was efficient and complete coverage of rather than start from scratch.
This has the effectiveness of the systems of internal had the benefit of leveraging several years control and risk management across the of experience of using risk-based two committees.
economic capital models to support In addition, attendance by Committee decision-making.
The outcome has been members is encouraged at subsidiary risk that our partial internal model has been committee meetings and there is a approved by the regulators and that we schedule of attendance maintained are well placed to succeed in a SII world.
centrally to ensure equal distribution and oversight.
In support of this, I annually Subsidiary Independent What action during the year has the speak to the chairs of each subsidiary risk Committee taken to review the committee and local CROs to maintain Non-Executive Directors Friends Life acquisition?
linkage to the matters being considered at Conference The majority of the Committees work in subsidiary level.
In December 2015 the Chairmen of the reviewing the risks associated with the We have seen the benefits of these Aviva plc Board, Audit, Governance and transaction itself was actually carried out initiatives with an increased understanding Risk Committees co-hosted a in 2014.
Following the completion of the of the work of each committee and conference for 32 independent nonacquisition, the integration risks and the improved communication and reporting executive directors of our principal risks in the former Friends Life business both at Group and subsidiary company subsidiaries.
were all included in the business as usual level.
This was also evidenced once again The topics discussed included the risk reporting that we received and in November 2015 when I, together with Groups strategy, the implementation discussed with management.
the Chairman of the Board and the of Solvency II, our approach to In addition, as Chairman of the Chairmen of the Audit and Governance managing operational risk and controls, Committee, I received all of Committees co-hosted a two-day our digital developments and the managements Integration Steering conference for the chairmen of the boards Groups control environment and Committee papers in connection with and audit, conduct and risk committees of culture.
the integration of Friends Life.
the Groups principal subsidiaries, their The conference has become an chief audit officers, chief financial officers annual event building upon the How does the Committee report to and chief risk officers.
Further details can successful risk and audit conferences the Board and how does it plan its be found in the case study opposite.
In 2016, it is intended that the The work of the Committee follows an What are the Committees priorities conference will extend to include all agreed annual work plan, which evolves in 2016?
independent non-executive directors throughout the year in response to the Given the volatile and weak performance of our subsidiary companies, to ensure changing macro-economic, business and of the financial markets at the start of a consistent understanding of Group regulatory environment and changes in 2016, the Committee will be monitoring strategy, customer philosophy, the Companys strategy.
the positioning and performance of the regulatory developments and risk and The Group Company Secretary and Groups investment portfolio and its control processes.
the CRO assisted me in planning the hedging policy closely.
This will link in with Committees work, and ensured that the contingency planning work considering the impact of various scenarios on our Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 89 Directors and corporate governance report continued Risk Committee Responsibilities and allocation of agenda time Regulatory, Governance and Risk Appetite, Risk Management Internal Audit 19% and Risk Reporting 14% Review developments in the prudential Review and robustly assess the design and 14 regulatory environment, the Groups external the effectiveness of the risk management 19 risk and capital disclosures and the framework and any proposed changes to it assessment of the internal control including recommending updated risk environment as it relates to risk.
Ensure due diligence appraisals are Ensure that risk management is 14 carried out on strategic or significant considered in setting the Companys overall transactions.
12 External Factors 12% Group Capital, Financial Plan, Review the external risk environment for Liquidity and Stress Testing 14% Review and monitor the risks to and arising example macroeconomic and cyber risk, the impact on the Companys risk profile and from the Companys strategy and business how those risks are being managed and plan and major transactions.
mitigated with a particular focus on the 41 impact on the Groups asset portfolio and Solvency II 41% disaster recovery planning.
Satisfy itself that the SII partial internal model is fit for purpose and meets all required regulations.
Activities during 2015 Risk Appetite, Risk Management and Risk Reporting The Committee reviewed and monitored how potential risks connected with increased cost efficiency were being managed: considered the risks associated with the 2016-2018 Group Plan and how management was proposing to mitigate them The Committee received a report from the risk function on the performance of business units against the risk and control objectives approved by the Committee.
The Committee debated an update to the Groups liquidity risk appetite and proposed new SII capital risk appetites and recommended these to the Board The Committee reviewed and approved changes to the Group-wide risk policies and selected business standards to reflect changes to the risk target operating model for SII and reflecting Financial Stability Board guidance.
The Committee selected the extreme stress scenarios to be used in the Groups recovery plan and liquidity risk management plan and reviewed and recommended those plans and the systemic risk management plan to the Board for approval Group Capital, Financial Plan, Liquidity and Stress Testing The Committee also reviewed proposals to materially increase the use of an internal composite reinsurer to enhance capital transferability and efficiency and a number of strategic transactions including the reinsurance of a block of the UK General Insurance latent reserves The Committee reviewed proposed hybrid debt issuance and redemption The Committee also reviewed capital and liquidity projections on a quarterly basis and the results of the Groups stress and scenario testing Solvency II The Committee carried out a series of deep reviews of the key internal model components, reviewed proposed model changes, received independent internal model validation reports, reviewed and recommended approval of the partial internal model application and received reports on the application of the standard formula for those businesses not covered by the internal model The Committee also provided oversight of the SII programmes preparations for the implementation of SII including Pillar 2 and Pillar 3 and confirmed that the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA requirements had been met External Factors The Committee received regular updates on the external economic environment and considered the implications for the Groups asset portfolio The Committee conducted deeper thematic reviews into cyber security, broader IT risks, derivatives usage, outsourcing arrangements and general insurance exposure accumulation management Regulatory, Governance and Internal Audit The Committee monitored closely the developments of the more detailed SII requirements and proposals for higher loss absorbency capital requirements for Global Systemically Important Insurers as well as progress made by the International Association of Insurance Supervisors towards a Global Insurance Capital Standard The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management function and approved the appointment of the CRO and the appointment of a number of subsidiary board risk committee members The Committee received regular updates from the Groups Asset and Liability Committee and Operational Risk Committee The Committee monitored certain Major Control Improvement Topics identified by management namely, IT security, disaster recovery in UK datacentres, GI underwriting risk accumulation and outsourcing.
Actions on these topics include the provision of more detailed controls on information security, business continuity and physical security, the completion of a GI risk accumulation data accuracy and capture project, and work to improve the management and oversight of outsourcing arrangements Group-wide 90 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
