Directors and corporate governance report Directors and corporate governance report This report sets out the role and activities of the Digital Governance Board and explains how the Group is governed Our strategy is to maximise our competitive advantage as a composite insurer and asset manager by putting The UK Corporate Governance controls are in place.
That means integrating Code digital throughout our businesses so supported by the Governance Committee, that we can provide better products and As a UK premium listed company, Aviva has also sets the values and supports the services for our customers.
adopted a governance structure based on culture of the Group.
We are applying the same logic to the principles of the UK Corporate The duties of the Board are set out in our governance.
Previously different Governance Code 2014 the Code.
Further its terms of reference which address a areas of the business would operate details of how the Company has applied wide range of corporate governance separate risk and governance the Code principles and complied with its matters and list those items that are arrangements.
This would not work for provisions, are set out in this report and the specifically reserved for decision by the UK Digital UKD which incorporates directors remuneration report.
They also set out those matters different business lines and product The Boards view is that the Company that must be reported to the Board, such segments and as a composite insurer was compliant throughout the accounting as senior leadership changes, significant requires a different governance model.
period with the relevant provisions of the litigation or material regulatory breaches UKD has its own board of directors, Code.
Further information on the Code and explain how matters that arise drawn from the senior management across can be found on the Financial Reporting between scheduled meetings should be the Group, which is responsible for making Councils website www.
The Board delegates clearly all strategic and governance decisions defined responsibilities together with an executive committee and to various committees executive risk committee.
The Group and reports from the Governance Committee oversees and Audit, Governance, advises UKD on regulatory and conduct The Board believes that a strong Nomination and Risk risks.
The ability to escalate governance system of governance throughout issues directly to Group provides speed and Committees are agility in decision-making and the required the Group is essential in ensuring contained in this report.
oversight, in a fast developing area.
Other A report from the that the business runs smoothly risks such as finance and IT are dealt with Remuneration through the normal reporting Committee is included arrangements to the Group Risk Sir Adrian Montague in the directors Committee and Group Audit Committee.
This is a good example of using Avivas The terms of robust and mature governance structure reference for each of the committees The Board and adapting it to business needs.
can be found on the Companys website The Boards role is to provide at www.
com committees and entrepreneurial leadership within a are also available from the Group framework of prudent and effective Company Secretary.
controls which enable risk to be assessed We have included a number of case and managed.
The Board believes that a studies in the report this year to highlight strong system of governance throughout areas of interest.
For example, later in the Group is essential in ensuring that the this report you will find an interview business runs smoothly.
This aids effective with Sir Malcolm Williamson who joined decision-making and supports the the Aviva Board in April 2015 following achievement of the Groups objectives for the completion of the Friends Life the benefit of customers and shareholders.
acquisition and opposite, details of the The Board is responsible to governance oversight we are applying to shareholders for promoting the long-term the digital business.
success of the Company and, in particular, for setting the Groups strategic aims, monitoring managements performance against those strategic aims, setting the Groups risk appetite, ensuring the Group is adequately resourced, and that effective 76 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Board Responsibilities and allocation of agenda time People, Board effectiveness Group strategy and business and succession planning 5% plans 30% Ensure adequate succession planning 5 Set the Groups strategic aims and approve including changes to the composition of the the Group Plan: monitor the performance of Board and its committees, and undertaking the Group and its management against its 19 the annual effectiveness review.
30 strategic aims: receive reports on changes in To set and uphold the values and senior management: regulatory standards of the Company.
developments: and the control environment.
Financial reporting and controls, Group risk appetite and capital structure and dividend framework 10% 8 policy 19% Set the Groups risk appetite and monitor Review the financial results and forecasts: the Groups significant risks: the Groups reports on performance against the financial 10 capital and liquidity position: and compliance plan: competitor results and treasury 10 with business standards and controls.
18 Corporate governance 18% Solvency II 8% Review and approve all financial results Approve the Groups Partial Internal Model announcements, the annual report and Application Package IMAP.
accounts and significant shareholder Apply Solvency II SII principles Significant transactions communications.
Receive regular reports to manage risk and capital.
Define and expenditure 10% from each committee and updates on risk management practices and Consider, review and approve updates on proposed changes to legislation and measure progress.
Activities during 2015 Group strategy and business plans Approved the 2016-2018 Group Plan and received presentations and reports from business units in respect of strategy execution and performance against Plan The Board received regular reports from the Group Chief Executive Officer which contained updates on the Groups financial performance: discussions of any proposed corporate transactions: changes in senior management: regulatory developments: and the control environment, together with progress against the Group Plan and the Groups strategy Group risk appetite and framework The Board received reports from the Chief Risk Officer on the Groups significant risks and regulatory issues: monitored the Groups risk appetite: ensured compliance with business standards and controls: and received updates on the Groups capital and liquidity position Corporate governance The Board received regular updates from its committees and management on legislation and proposed consultations that may affect the Companys legal and regulatory obligations The Board ensured that governance structures remained appropriate for the businesses and the markets in which we operate around the world, while supporting the overall strategy and culture.
The Board supported the development of the Subsidiary Governance Principles Significant transactions and expenditure The Board agreed the Aviva content of the prospectus and circular that was sent to shareholders in connection with the acquisition of Friends Life Regular updates regarding the progress of the Friends Life integration were made to the Board Consideration and recommendation of the proposed acquisition of RBC General Insurance Company by Aviva Canada, which was announced on 21 January 2016 Solvency II The Board approved the IMAP and received tailored training on SII including Pillar 3 with Risk Committee members receiving more detailed training on specific areas Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and dividend policy As part of its annual work plan, the Board reviewed the financial performance of the Company and approved all financial results announcements, the annual report and accounts and dividend payments The Board considered the Group capital and liquidity requirements arising from the Companys strategy and Group Plan People, Board effectiveness and succession planning Succession planning was a focus for the Board in 2015 and further details are provided in the Nomination Committee report The Board undertook an external evaluation of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of each committee and the individual directors during 2015.
Further details are included later in this report Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 77 Directors and corporate governance report continued The directors NEDs are required to be able to present Board diversity 2015 Board changes objective, rigorous and constructive The diversity charts, that are contained As at the date of this report the Board challenge to management, drawing on within the governance letter earlier in this comprises the Chairman, three Executive their wider experiences to question report, show that Aviva has a strong Board Directors and nine Independent Nonassumptions and viewpoints.
The NEDs with a range of different skills.
One of the Executive Directors NEDs.
should also assist management in the benefits arising from the Friends Life On 29 April 2015, the date of the development of the Companys strategy.
To acquisition was the opportunity to invite 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM, Sir be effective, it is the Boards view that the Sir Malcolm Williamson and Andy Briggs Adrian Montague CBE, who was the majority of our NEDs should have a sound to join the Board.
Both have a wide range Companys Senior Independent Director, understanding of the financial services of industry experience which is now was appointed as Chairman of the Board industry so as to be able to evaluate benefiting the enlarged Group.
In in place of John McFarlane who retired on properly the information provided.
addition, the Group has benefitted from the same date.
As explained in the appointing three new NEDs, who were Companys 2014 annual report, and given Board independence formerly on the Board of Friends Life, to the well developed succession plan that Each NED must be able to devote the UK Life subsidiary boards which retains had been put in place for this position the sufficient time to the role in order to valuable knowledge and experience within Board decided not to use an external discharge his or her responsibilities the Group.
search consultancy or open advertising for effectively.
The Board, having considered the Independent advice Prior to Sir Adrians appointment as matter carefully, is of the opinion that all All directors have access to the advice and Chairman, the Nomination Committee of the current NEDs remain independent services of the Group Company Secretary reviewed the time commitment required and free from any relationship or and the Board has established a procedure for the role and noted that Sir Adrian circumstances that could affect, or appear whereby directors wishing to do so in intended to reduce his external to affect, their independent judgement.
furtherance of their duties may take commitments to give him sufficient time Scott Wheway has served on the Board independent professional advice at the to dedicate to the role.
During the year, since his appointment in December 2007 Companys expense.
No such requests Sir Adrian retired as Chairman of Anglian and Mike Hawker since his appointment were made during 2015.
Water Group Ltd and 3i Group plc and in January 2010, and accordingly in early The Company arranges appropriate also resigned as a non-executive director 2016 their performance, including their insurance cover in respect of legal actions from Skanska AB.
independence, was the subject of a against its directors.
The Company has In addition, following the acquisition particularly rigorous review pursuant to also entered into indemnities with its of Friends Life, Sir Malcolm Williamson the requirements of the Code.
The Board directors as described on page 99. and Andy Briggs joined the Board on 29 remains satisfied that they remain April 2015.
Sir Malcolm replaced Sir independent and that they continue to The Chairman and Group CEO Adrian as the Companys Senior make valuable contributions in their Role profiles are in place for the Chairman Independent Director and Andy Briggs various roles.
Scott will remain on the and the Group Chief Executive Officer became Chief Executive Officer of the Board until the end of 2016 at which Group CEO, which clearly set out the enlarged UK Life business.
The Chairmans priority Gay Huey Evans retired from the Board Over half of the Board members, is to lead the Board and ensure its on 29 April 2015 and Beln Romana excluding the Chairman, are independent effectiveness: the Group CEOs priority is Garca was appointed as a NED on 26 NEDs.
Biographical details including a the management of the Group.
Since the year end, the summary of the skills and experience the has delegated the day-to-day running of Company has announced the directors bring to the Board are set out in the Group to the Group CEO within certain appointment of Claudia Arney as a NED their biographies on pages 70 to 73 and in limits, above which matters must be with effect from 8 February 2016. the Companys 2016 Notice of Annual escalated to the Board for determination.
NED appointments Senior Independent Director The Boards policy is to appoint and retain Time commitment The Senior Independent Directors SID NEDs who can apply their wider business In considering the time commitment role is to act as a sounding board for the knowledge and experiences to their required from directors the Board takes Chairman, to serve as an intermediary for oversight of the Group and to review and into account the number of other external the other directors where necessary and to progressively refresh the skills on the commitments that each director has.
The be available to shareholders should they Board.
The report of the Nomination time commitments of the NEDs are have concerns that they have been unable Committee sets out the work carried out assessed as part of the annual review of to resolve through normal channels, or during the year on succession planning for their effectiveness and each director has when such channels would be the Board.
Committee membership is also demonstrated that they have sufficient inappropriate.
During the year the NEDs, regularly refreshed.
time to devote to their present role with led by Sir Adrian Montague prior to Appointments of NEDs are made by the Aviva.
Under the Boards policy on this 29 April 2015, and following this date, by Board subject to the usual regulatory matter, executive directors may hold one Sir Malcolm Williamson, met several times approvals and continued satisfactory external directorship and must obtain the without the Chairman present.
An performance following the Boards annual prior consent of the Board before interview with Sir Malcolm follows on the performance evaluation.
Their appointment accepting a non-executive directorship in next page.
is also subject to the Companys articles of any other company.
Executive directors The role of the Board and role profiles association which prescribe that all serving may retain the fees from any such for the Chairman, SID, Group CEO and directors will retire and stand for re-election directorship.
Details of any external nonNEDs can be found on the Companys at each AGM.
executive directorships held by executive website at www.
directors during 2015 are shown in the directors remuneration report.
78 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 G Go ov five ern rnan anc ce e AN INTERVIEW WITH Sir Malcolm Williamson Senior Independent Director Sir Malcolm discusses his initial impressions of Aviva and the importance of the Board induction process reviewed the workings of the Board and of the Chairman and this is something I will continue.
Finally I bring a great enthusiasm to continue the journey we have started together!
Aviva has highlighted the importance of a comprehensive induction process for all.
Have you found this valuable?
I have always believed that a good induction process is essential not just at Board level.
Throughout the organisation there has been a big drive to improve this and recent efforts to recruit and develop new talent, for example through the new programmes for graduates, make this even more important.
My experience, along with Andy Briggs, has been slightly different from the induction a member of the Board would normally receive as I had already met with Avivas directors and senior executives and received a lot of information about the Group as part of the due diligence undertaken on the transaction.
Nevertheless, I have received a You have joined the Aviva Board and throughout the organisation, is also comprehensive induction with a series of have significant leadership essential these areas I am pleased to meetings with individual Board members experience in the financial services say are a focus at Aviva.
and senior management to gain a more sector.
What are your first detailed and tailored understanding of impressions of Aviva?
What do you think you have brought Avivas business.
This has included visits Moving to Aviva has meant moving from to the Aviva Board and as Avivas to several business unit operations a life insurer to a composite and the Senior Independent Director?
such as Canada and Poland and meetings opportunities for Aviva are exciting.
Some I bring considerable experience of the with the Companys major shareholders challenges are common to all insurers insurance sector, particularly life and advisors.
sustainability, a revolution in how insurance.
As its former Chairman, customers want to deal with us and I specifically bring a detailed knowledge What do you look forward to at issues like Solvency II.
of the Friends Life business, which is also Aviva in 2016?
Ive been particularly impressed by the case for Andy Briggs.
I think this I look forward to continuing to build the the drive, technical expertise and strength continuity is essential with any type of enlarged Group.
As a business Aviva is of the workforce across the Company, transaction and the subsequent well placed to seize the opportunities and not least in the management team integration of the business and the issues out there, especially as a composite and amongst my Board colleagues, as it faces.
I am pleased my former Friends insurer.
Im looking forward to well as the robustness of the governance Life non-executive directors, Belinda working to deliver even more for arrangements.
The new Subsidiary Richards, Mel Carvill and David Allvey our customers and shareholders.
Governance Principles help support this remain on the UK Life boards to support and bring further clarity to our structure.
I also believe I add an independence I strongly believe in effective of judgement and challenge to Board corporate governance and see this as a discussions which is vital to being an definite strength in Aviva and key to its effective SID.
Good succession Since the acquisition I have chaired planning, both at Board level and meetings of my fellow NEDs as part of the ongoing effectiveness process and A Av vi iv va p a pl lc c A An nnu nua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 || 79 79 Directors and corporate governance report continued Board membership and attendance at Board and Committee meetings The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the Board and the committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Company in order to effectively perform their duties.
All meetings were attended unless stated in the footnotes below the table.
Fuller details on the operation of each committee are contained in the committee reports.
Board and committee meetings attendance during 2015 Risk Audit Governance Nomination Remuneration Committee Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 11 13 7 7 5 8 Chairman 1 John McFarlane 5 5 2 2 2 Sir Adrian Montague 10 11 6 6 3 3 7 7 Executive directors Mark Wilson 11 11 Tom Stoddard 11 11 3 Andy Briggs 6 6 Non-executive directors 4 Glyn Barker 10 11 13 13 7 7 8 8 Patricia Cross 11 11 13 13 7 7 5 5 5 Gay Huey Evans 5 5 2 2 1 1 3 3 6 Beln Romana Garca 5 5 3 3 4 4 3 3 7 Michael Hawker 11 11 11 13 7 7 8 8 8 Michael Mire 11 11 7 7 7 7 4 4 8 8 9 Bob Stein 11 11 7 7 7 7 5 5 8 8 10 Scott Wheway 11 11 6 6 7 7 7 7 4 4 11 Sir Malcolm Williamson 6 6 7 7 4 4 5 5 4 4 1 John McFarlane retired from the Board and the Nomination Committee on 29 April 2015.
2 Sir Adrian Montague was appointed as Chairman of the Company on 29 April 2015 and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 14 May 2015.
He resigned as a member of the Audit and Governance Committees on 14 May 2015.
Sir Adrian was unable to participate in one ad hoc Board call due to a prior engagement which could not be altered.
3 Andy Briggs was appointed as a director on 29 April 2015.
4 Glyn Barker was unable to participate in one ad hoc Board call due to a prior engagement which could not be altered.
5 Gay Huey Evans retired as a director of the Company and as a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees on 29 April 2015.
6 Beln Romana Garca was appointed as a NED and as a member of the Nomination, Governance and Risk Committees on 26 June 2015.
7 Michael Hawker was unable to attend two meetings of the Audit Committee due to having prior engagements which could not be altered.
8 Michael Mire was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 14 May 2015.
9 Bob Stein was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee on 14 May 2015.
10 Scott Wheway stepped down from the Audit Committee and was appointed as a member of the Risk Committee on 14 May 2015.
11 Sir Malcolm Williamson was appointed as the Companys SID on 29 April 2015 and as a member of the Audit, Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 14 May 2015.
Board and Committee In March 2015, interviews were Companys new Chairman following the evaluation and effectiveness conducted with every then Board 2015 AGM.
Board members were united The effectiveness of the Board is vital member.
All participants were interviewed in welcoming Sir Adrian as the Companys to the success of the Group and the by Ffion Hague, a director of Independent new Chairman and felt positive about the Company undertakes a rigorous Board Evaluation, according to a set year ahead.
The evaluation also recognised evaluation process each year in order to agenda tailored for the Aviva Board, which that following the Friends Life acquisition, assess how well the Board, its committees, had been agreed with the Chairman and the new Board would be a very visible role the directors and the Chairman are the Group Company Secretary.
In model to the business in terms of performing.
The aim is to continually addition, interviews were held with senior integration and should show a positive improve the Boards effectiveness and the managers and advisers together with example by adapting quickly and Groups overall performance.
former Board members and also Andy embracing the best of both principle.
The Boards focus over the past year Briggs and Sir Malcolm Williamson to gain The then Chairman and SID assessed has been spent on a number of issues, additional feedback.
The main actions that the performance of the other NEDs and notably the Friends Life acquisition, the we have taken from the evaluation in the Executive Directors in their capacity as Chairmans succession and SII readiness.
2015 are shown in the table on the next directors.
The Chairman concluded that Due to these major events it was felt best page.
each director had contributed effectively practice to bring forward to early 2015 The review of the performance of John and demonstrated full commitment to our plan to hold an external evaluation.
McFarlane, who was Chairman until the their duties.
To assess the Group CEO in Our normal cycle would have been to hold Companys AGM, concluded that he respect of his executive duties a separate this in 2016: the last such external review continued to operate to a high level, process was carried out by the Chairman being held in 2013. exhibiting positive leadership and ensuring and in respect of the Chief Financial The 2015 evaluation was conducted that the necessary conditions for effective Officer CFO, by the Group CEO.
The by Independent Board Evaluation, a discussion both on an individual and Board process involved measuring performance specialist consultancy which undertakes level were met.
against each Executive Directors no other business for the Company.
The review recognised that Sir Adrian objectives.
Montague would be appointed as the 80 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Board and committee evaluation and effectiveness 0BOutcomes and steps taken in 2015 1BBoard debate The evaluation indicated that open and productive debate was widespread across the Board and its committees.
Overall, the Board and its committees were found to be functioning well with a collaborative and professional atmosphere around the Board table 2BBoardroom information The evaluation highlighted the significant level of agenda time and Boardroom discussion spent on the changing regulatory environment.
In order to allow more strategic debate, efforts were made during the year to streamline agendas and enable deeper discussion on strategy, for example through separate off-agenda business unit reviews.
Seven such sessions are currently planned for 2016 In addition to the structure of agendas, the content and makeup of Board and committee packs was reviewed and a new reporting approach is being implemented with the aim of improving the quality of information presented at meetings and creating more time for discussion and decision-making.
This will remain a focus in 2016 3BImprovements in committee collaboration Committee collaboration was discussed in the output of the 2014 effectiveness review, and in 2015, the Board has continued to successfully strengthen the relationship between each Board committee During 2015 the collaboration between the Board and the boards of subsidiary companies continued.
NED attendance at subsidiary board meetings is an example of this together with the Subsidiary Independent Non-Executive Directors conference which furthers the collaboration between directors.
Further details on the conference can be found in the Risk Committee report The Subsidiary Governance Principles were developed and launched during the year to strengthen and provide further clarity on the relationship between Aviva plc and the subsidiary boards.
Further details can be found in the Governance Committee report 4BSuccession planning The response to the evaluation indicated that succession planning at both Board and executive level should remain a priority.
During 2015, succession plans were further developed and discussed at the Board and Nomination Committee.
This succession programme resulted in a number of appointments to the Board, including that of the Chairman The Nomination Committee will continue to review the Board skills matrix during 2016 to enable the Board to enhance its support of the transformation of the business.
The Nomination Committee report sets out further information on our succession planning process 5BCommitment to Board diversity The evaluation suggested further focus on improving the representation of female NEDs on the Board was required.
The appointments that have been made during the year result in 23% female representation.
The Nomination Committee will retain its focus on diversity in 2016 as part of its approach to succession planning 6BStrengthening the Boards connection to the Business The evaluation identified that the Boards engagement with the business had improved.
The new Board appointees completed their induction programmes which included business unit visits and in 2016 the Board will continue this trend and place further emphasis on discussing areas such as customer experience and product design 7BWork to broaden the remit of the Governance Committee was continued during 2015 The changes to the remit of the Governance Committee that had been implemented in 2014, for example adding the oversight of customer outcomes, were identified as being very positive.
In 2015 the Committee scope was further broadened to cover UKD, as set out in the case study at the beginning of this report Induction, training and several separate training sessions over a Group: and relevant policies, procedures development number of months.
Induction programmes and governance material.
Any knowledge The Board and the Chairman believe were put in place for Andy Briggs, Sir or skills gaps identified during the strongly in the development of the Malcolm Williamson and Beln Romana directors approved person application directors and the Groups employees.
Garca on their new appointment to the process are also addressed through their It is a requirement of each directors Board in 2015.
appointment that they commit to induction included meetings with Board During 2015, 11 Board meetings were continuing their professional development.
members, presentations from key held, of which, nine were scheduled Board During the year, directors attended a members of senior management, and meetings and two were additional Board number of internal training sessions, visits to the Groups main operating meetings called at short notice.
In addition including sessions on various aspects of SII, businesses and functions to gain a more the Board delegated responsibility for certain the Senior Insurance Managers Regime detailed and tailored understanding of our items, such as giving final approval to SIMR, Pillar 3 reporting, remuneration business.
In addition meetings with the proposals broadly agreed by the full Board, developments and matters affecting our IT External Auditor and some of the to specially created committees of the Board architecture and related technical Companys advisors were held.
The SID which met six times during 2015. platforms.
In addition the Board attended also met with a number of the Companys The Chairman and the NEDs met several in-depth sessions on Aviva France, Aviva major shareholders.
times in the absence of the Executive Asia, UK and Ireland General Insurance Further meetings are arranged where a Directors and the NEDs met in the absence and our digital business.
Training sessions director requires a deeper understanding of the Chairman, including one meeting have been built into the Boards and of a particular issue.
All new directors also chaired by the SID to appraise John committees annual plans for 2016. receive induction materials, which include McFarlanes performance as Chairman.
The Chairman ensures that all new the current strategic and operational plan: The Group Company Secretary directors receive a comprehensive recent Board and committee minutes and assisted the Chairman of the Board and induction programme tailored to their meeting packs: organisation structure the Chair of each committee in planning particular needs and which consists of charts: role profiles: a history of the the work for each meeting and ensuring Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 81 Directors and corporate governance report continued that Board and committee members and values throughout the organisation the Group.
The RMF has been in place for received information and papers in a and has feedback from employees the year under review and up to the date timely manner.
Members of senior through our annual, all employee survey, of the approval of the annual report and management regularly attend Board Voice of Aviva and this is an area the accounts.
It is codified through risk policies meetings to present items of business.
Board will remain close to during 2016. and business standards which set out the It is the Boards practice to visit The Governance and Nomination risk strategy, appetite, framework and different business units whenever it Committees will continue the focus they minimum requirements for the Groups can and during 2015, one Board meeting began during 2015 in connection with worldwide operations.
Further detail is was held in Poland and one in York.
This succession planning and talent set out in note 57. gave the Board the opportunity to meet development both at Board and senior the senior management teams and management level throughout the Group Internal controls to also gain a deeper understanding of the to ensure the right people are in place Internal controls facilitate effective and operations of each of the businesses.
across the business to deliver on the efficient business operations, the During 2016, it is planned that the Board strategic plans.
development of robust and reliable will visit the Groups business in Asia.
internal reporting and compliance with Frameworks for risk laws and regulations.
Conflicts of interest management and internal A Group reporting manual including In accordance with the Companies Act control International Financial Reporting Standards 2006, the Companys articles of The Board is responsible for promoting the IFRS requirements and a Financial association allow the Board to authorise long-term success of the Company for the Reporting Control Framework FRCF are potential conflicts of interest that may benefit of shareholders.
This includes in place across the Group.
FRCF relates to arise and to impose such limits or ensuring that an appropriate system of the preparation of reliable financial conditions as it thinks fit.
The decision to governance is in place throughout the reporting and preparation of local and authorise a conflict of interest can only be Group.
To discharge this responsibility, the consolidated financial statements in made by non-conflicted directors those Board has established frameworks for risk accordance with applicable accounting who have no interest in the matter being management and internal control using a standards and with the requirements of considered and in making such a decision three lines of defence model and reserves the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The FRCF the directors must act in a way they to itself the setting of the Groups risk process follows a risk-based approach, consider, in good faith, will be most likely appetite.
Details of the Groups approach with management identification, to promote the Companys success for the to risk and risk management are contained assessment documentation and testing, benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The on pages 62 to 65. remediation as required, reporting and Boards procedure is to regularly review In-depth monitoring of the certification over key financial reportingand approve actual and potential conflicts establishment and operation of prudent related controls.
Management regularly of interest as they arise.
This procedure and effective controls in order to assess undertakes quality assurance procedures operated effectively during the year.
and manage risks associated with the over the application of the FRCF process Groups operations is delegated to the and FRCF controls.
The Friends Life Group Board Priorities for 2016 Audit, Governance and Risk Committees had an established framework of financial 2015 was a transformational year for the which report regularly to the Board.
reporting controls in place at the time of Company.
The Board made good progress However, the Board retains ultimate acquisition and work is now underway to against its objectives, including the Friends responsibility for the Groups systems of align this with the Aviva Groups FRCF Life integration, UK Life strategy, internal control and risk management and methodology.
This work will be completed continued oversight of conduct risk, True has reviewed their effectiveness for the in 2016.
Customer Composite, digital and the year.
proposed acquisition of RBC General A robust assessment was also First line Insurance Company by Aviva Canada.
This conducted of the principal risks facing the Management are responsible for the was in addition to the annual cycle of Company, including those that would application of the RMF, for implementing matters dealt with including risk threaten its business model, future and monitoring the operation of the management, financial reporting and performance, solvency and liquidity.
system of internal control and for strategic planning.
Some of these areas The frameworks for risk management providing assurance to the Audit, will remain a focus for the Board during and internal control play a key role in the Governance and Risk Committees and 2016, together with SII as this is management of risks that may impact the the Board.
fulfilment of the Boards objectives.
They The Group Executive members and As part of the 2016-2018 Plan, the are designed to identify and manage, each business unit chief executive officer Board anticipates that IT, the digital rather than eliminate, the risk of Aviva are responsible for the implementation of strategy and use of MyAviva will each be failing to achieve business objectives and Group strategies, plans and policies, the areas of focus during 2016 as the Group can only provide reasonable and not monitoring of operational and financial builds on the progress in these areas absolute assurance against material performance, the assessment and control achieved to date.
The Audit, Governance misstatement or losses.
These frameworks of financial, business and operational risks and Risk Committees will continue to are regularly reviewed and comply with and the maintenance and ongoing carefully consider the risks associated with the Financial Reporting Councils updated development of a robust control each area of the business and also the guidance on Risk Management, Internal framework and environment in their areas quality of the Groups cyber security.
The Controls and related financial and business of responsibility.
Chaired by the Chief Risk Board will continue to provide oversight reporting.
Officer CRO, the Asset Liability and challenge to management in its Committee ALCO assists the CFO with execution of the 2016-2018 Plan.
As in Risk Management Framework the discharge of his responsibilities in previous years, this and future strategic The Risk Management Framework RMF relation to management of the Groups priorities will be a focus of the Board is designed to identify, measure, manage, balance sheet within risk appetite and Strategy day in June.
monitor and report the principal risks to provides financial and insurance risk The Board has taken positive steps in the achievement of the Groups business management oversight.
the last few years to embed the purpose objectives and is embedded throughout 82 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Board Oversight of Risk Management Aviva plc Board Audit Governance Nomination Risk Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Operational Risk Asset Liability Disclosure Committee Committee Committee ORC ALCO Board Committees Management Committees The Operational Risk Committee is also is accountable for Group wide actuarial statements, the effectiveness of the chaired by the CRO.
It supports the first methodology, reporting to the relevant system of internal financial controls line owners of key operations and governing body on the adequacy of and for monitoring the effectiveness, franchise risks in the discharge of their reserves and capital requirements, as well performance and objectivity of the responsibilities in relation to operational as underwriting and reinsurance internal and external auditor.
The Compliance function ii The Governance Committee also The Disclosure Committee is chaired supports and advises the business on the works closely with the Risk Committee by the CFO and reports to the Audit identification, measurement and and is responsible for assisting the Committee.
It oversees the design and management of its regulatory, financial Board in its oversight of operational effectiveness of the Groups disclosure crime and conduct risks.
It is accountable risk across the Group, particularly in controls, for both financial and nonfor maintaining the compliance standards respect of the risk of not delivering financial information, evaluates the and framework within which the Group good customer outcomes.
Groups disclosure controls and reviews operates, and monitoring and reporting and endorses the Groups key periodic on its compliance risk profile.
iii The Risk Committee assists the Board external reports, including the in its oversight of risk and risk consolidated financial statements.
The Third line management across the Group and results of the FRCF process are signed off The Internal Audit function provides makes recommendations on risk by business unit chief executive officers independent and objective assessment appetite to the Board.
and chief financial officers and compliance on the robustness of the RMF and the The Audit, Governance and Risk with the FRCF is reported to the Disclosure appropriateness and effectiveness of Committees report regularly to the Board and the Audit Committees.
internal control to the Audit, Governance on their activities and make and Risk Committees, business unit audit recommendations and escalate significant Second line committees and the Board.
Further risk exposures to the Board as appropriate.
The Risk function is accountable for the information on the activities of the Internal They ensure that mitigating actions are quantitative and qualitative oversight Audit function is contained within the taken when risks are, or are expected to and challenge of the identification, Audit Committee report.
measurement, monitoring and reporting The chart above shows the Board and of principal risks and for developing Board oversight committee structure that oversees the the RMF.
The Board has established and delegated Companys frameworks for risk As the business responds to changing responsibilities to various committees to management and internal control.
market conditions and customer needs, assist in its oversight of risk management Further details on procedures for the the Risk function regularly monitors the and the approach to internal controls.
management of risk operated by the appropriateness of the Companys risk There is a good working practice between Group are given in note 57. policies and the RMF to ensure they each committee and they make regular remain up to date.
This helps to provide reports to the Board.
The responsibilities assurance to the various risk oversight and activities of each Board committee are committees that there are appropriate set out in the committee reports that controls in place for all core business follow.
The principal committees that activities, and that the processes for oversee risk management are as follows: managing risk are understood and i The Audit Committee, working closely followed consistently across the Group.
with the Risk Committee, is The second line Risk function as a responsible for assisting the Board in whole also includes the Compliance and discharging its responsibilities for the Actuarial functions.
The Actuarial function integrity of the Companys financial Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 83 Directors and corporate governance report continued Assessment of effectiveness The risk management framework of being unable to travel.
All serving directors To support an assessment of the a small number of our joint ventures and plan to attend the 2016 AGM.
effectiveness of the Groups governance, strategic equity holdings differs from the There is a dedicated email address internal control and risk management Aviva framework outlined in this report.
which shareholders can use to ask requirements, the chief executive officer We work with these entities to understand questions on the business of the AGM at of each business unit is required to how their risks are managed and to align aviva.
com and this certify that: them, where possible, with Avivas address is included in the shareholder there are sound risk management and framework.
information section of the Notice of AGM.
internal control systems that are A presentation on the Groups effective and fit for purpose in place Communication with performance will be given at the AGM and across the business: and shareholders made available on the Companys website material existing or emerging risks The Company places considerable after the meeting at www.
within the business have been identified importance on communication with Shareholders are invited to ask and assessed and the business operates shareholders and engages with them questions related to the business of the in a manner which conforms to the on a wide range of issues.
meeting at the AGM and have an minimum requirements outlined in The directors have an ongoing dialogue opportunity to meet with the directors Group risk policies and business and a programme of meetings with following the conclusion of the meeting.
standards institutional investors, fund managers and Further details on the AGM are provided analysts which are managed by the in the Shareholder services pages later in The chief risk officer of each business unit Companys Investor Relations function.
the Annual report and accounts.
must certify that: At these meetings a wide range of issues the risk function has reviewed and are discussed including strategy, financial challenged the process supporting the performance, management, remuneration business unit chief executive officers and governance, within the constraints certification and is satisfied that it can of information already made public, to provide reasonable assurance of the understand any issues of concern to material accuracy and completeness investors.
Shareholders views are regularly of the business unit chief executive shared with the Board through the Group officers assessment: and CEOs and CFOs reports and the Companys no material gaps exist in the RMF as corporate brokers also periodically brief the it applies to their business unit Board on investor views.
Prior to his retirement in April 2015, Any material risks not previously identified, John McFarlane, as Chairman, met with control weaknesses or non-compliance the Companys major institutional with the Groups risk policies and business investors.
This included consultation on standards or local delegations of authority, the appointment of Sir Adrian Montague must be highlighted as part of this as Chairman and in respect of the process.
This is then supplemented by proposed Friends Life acquisition.
Since his investigations carried out at Group level appointment, Sir Adrian Montague has and ultimately a Group CEO and CRO also met with the Companys major certification for Aviva plc.
In addition, the SID was The effectiveness assessment also available to meet with major investors to draws on the regular cycle of assurance discuss any areas of concern that could activity carried out during the year, as well not be resolved through normal channels as the results of the certification process.
The results of the certification process and details of key failings or weaknesses are Interim Management Statements reported to the Audit Committee and the In November 2014, the Financial Conduct Board annually to enable them to carry Authority removed the requirement in the out an effectiveness assessment.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules to The Audit Committee, working closely publish quarterly interim management with the Risk Committee, on behalf of the statements IMS.
After careful Board, last carried out a full review of the consideration, the Board has determined effectiveness of the systems of internal that Aviva should no longer provide IMS control and risk management in March disclosures for quarter one and quarter 2016, covering all material controls, three, with immediate effect.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and the RMF and 2016 AGM processes.
The review identified a number of The 2016 AGM will be held on areas for improvement and the necessary Wednesday 4 May 2016 and the Notice of actions have been or are being taken.
the AGM and related papers will, unless The committee reports refer to a otherwise noted, be sent to shareholders number of areas where control issues have at least 20 working days before the been identified and describes the meeting.
The AGM provides a valuable mitigating actions to address them.
opportunity for the Board to communicate with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the Companys AGM, however, Patricia Cross was unable to attend the 2015 AGM due to illness and 84 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
