Group Executive: Biographies Group Executive The Group Executive focuses on our strategy, business model, financial and business performance and ensures that the Group remains committed to being a True Customer Composite Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Andy Briggs Kirstine Cooper Group Chief Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer of Group General Counsel Executive Officer Aviva UK Life and and Company Secretary Go to page 70 to read Chairman of Global Life Toms biography.
Go to page 70 to read Go to page 73 to read Kirstines Marks biography.
Go to page 70 to read Andys biography.
Nick Amin Angela Darlington David McMillan Sarah Morris Chief Operations and Chief Risk Officer Chief Executive Officer, Chief People Officer Transformation Officer Aviva Europe and Joined Aviva in 2015 Joined Aviva in 2001 Chairman Global Health Sarah is responsible for the Angela is responsible for Avivas Joined Aviva in 2013 Insurance leadership of Avivas people and risk function, providing oversight Nick is responsible for the communication strategy.
Sarah has and challenge on the Groups transformation programme across Joined Aviva in 2002 significant international experience, management of risks, and the the Group, which includes driving David is responsible for Avivas particularly in transformation and continual development of the the integration and cost synergies European, Indian and health change across a number of Solvency II internal model and risk associated with the Friends Life business across the Group.
She was most recently management framework.
Nick has a strong was previously group global human resources director has held a variety of actuarial roles international background in transformation director with for a division of Thomson Reuters.
within Aviva, including UK Life consumer banking, insurance and responsibility for managing the chief actuary.
transformation projects over a 40 implementation of Avivas strategic year career.
74 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Euan Munro Monique Shivanandan Maurice Tulloch Chief Executive Officer, Chief Information Officer Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Investors Aviva UK & Ireland General Joined Aviva in 2014 Insurance and Chairman Monique has led the transformation Joined Aviva in 2014 Global General Insurance of Avivas information security Euan is responsible for driving capability, and established a three Aviva Investors expertise in Joined Aviva in 1992 year programme to simplify Avivas managing Avivas own funds, and Maurice has repositioned the global IT estate, whilst continuing to deliver has widened Aviva Investors General Insurance business within a high-volume of change to support distribution network whilst the Group, whilst championing the the business.
Monique previously achieving scalability within the Road to Reform campaign to worked as chief technology officer organisation.
Euan has significant reform the UK motor insurance at Capital One and had experience in fixed income and market to the benefit of customers.
responsibility for defining and multi-asset management in an Prior to his appointment Maurice driving their technology strategy.
held the role of chief executive officer of Aviva Canada.
Chris Wei Jason Windsor Executive Chairman of Chief Capital and Aviva Asia and Global Investments Officer Chairman of Aviva Digital Joined Aviva in 2010 Jason is responsible for the Groups Joined Aviva in 2014 strategy, capital and insurance Chris is responsible for the strategic investments, which includes capital growth of Avivas Asian businesses management and allocation, asset and overall leadership of Avivas liability management, treasury, digital product transformation.
reinsurance and mergers & Prior to joining Aviva, Chris was acquisitions.
He was previously group chief executive officer and managing director in the Financial executive director of Great Eastern Institutions Group at Morgan Holdings Ltd. Stanley, with management responsibility for the European asset management sector.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 75
