Governance Audit Committee report As Chairman of the Committee, I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for the year ended 31 December 2015 The challenges of adopting Solvency II SII committee.
Details of the Committees were a major focus area during the year in responsibilities are shown later in the readiness for implementation on 1 January report.
The Committee also continued to focus on the control environment and What topics has the Committee developing and strengthening the internal focused on during the year?
control framework, including the The Committee has a number of integration of the Friends Life entities standing items that it considers each following their acquisition in April 2015. year affecting the Companys financial statements and policies, financial risks, internal control matters and internal and external audit.
In addition, each year the Committee Membership Committee focuses on a number of Member since: operational matters.
Some of the items the Committee spent time on during 2015 recommending to the Board that the Glyn Barker, 08 08 2012 Chairman were: annual report and accounts are fair, Patricia Cross 01 12 2013 preparing for SII balanced and understandable Michael Hawker 01 09 2011 consideration of the financial agreeing the Groups approach to the statement assumptions and Longer-Term Viability Statement LTVS Bob Stein 14 05 2015 judgements in relation to the annual as required under the UK Corporate Sir Malcolm Williamson 14 05 2015 report and accounts and the Groups Governance Code the Code.
Further details of these details on the LTVS are contained in This year we welcomed Sir Malcolm can be found in the table on page 94 Other Statutory Information Williamson and Bob Stein to the the Major Control Improvement Topics Committee and I am grateful to all MCITs identified by management.
members of the Committee for their The MCITs that were allocated to the support and dedication in 2015.
Sir Adrian Committee related to control issues in The challenges of Montague and Scott Wheway retired from Aviva UK Commercial Finance and the Committee on 14 May 2015.
The adopting Solvency II Turkey Life.
The Committee tracked members of the Committee are shown in were a major focus the progress that has been made in the table above and details of members connection with these issues and the attendance at Committee meetings during area during the year remedial actions implemented by the year are shown earlier in the directors management.
These included the and corporate governance report.
documentation of loan management Glyn Barker activity in the UK Commercial Finance Chairman, Audit Committee What is the purpose of the Committee business, and actions to enhance the and what is its role?
significant issues such as the valuation core operating systems for the Turkey The Committees principal role is to assist of life insurance contract liabilities for Life business and develop its risk and the Board in discharging its responsibilities the UK life business UK Life.
Both topics have for monitoring the integrity of the focus were the annuitant mortality, now been closed and removed from Companys financial statements: the credit and expense assumptions.
oversight of internal controls and the addition the Committee considered performance of internal and external audit.
the valuation of non-life insurance The Committee acts independently of contract liabilities for the general management and works closely with the insurance business, valuation of hard Governance, Remuneration and Risk to value investments and the valuation Committees.
There is cross-membership of finite intangible assets and goodwill between each committee which provides in relation to the Friends Life better understanding and more efficient acquisition communication of the work of each Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 91 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 91 Directors and corporate governance report continued What has the Committee done to The Committee also receives quarterly The Standard regulates the assess the impact of the acquisition control reports from Internal Audit and appointment of former audit employees to of Friends Life on the financial reports reviews and challenges management on senior finance positions in the Group and and control environment of the the actions being taken to improve the sets out the approach to be taken by the Group?
quality of the overall control environment Group when using the non-audit services Following the successful completion of the and the control culture across the Group.
Friends Life acquisition in April 2015, the The Committee reviews and approves The Standard distinguishes between Committee has spent time considering the the semi-annual Internal Audit Plan and i those services where an independent alignment and adoption of the Groups conducts an annual review of the Internal view is required and services that should Market Consistent Embedded Value Audit function.
The Committee concluded be performed by the Auditor such as MCEV and International Financial that for 2015 the function was performing statutory and non-statutory audit and Reporting Standards IFRS accounting well and it continued to deliver an assurance work : ii prohibited services policies and methodologies, the objective and independent service.
where the independence of the Auditor restructuring provisions and the key issues Regular reports are provided to the could be threatened and the Auditor must and judgements which resulted from the Committee through the Groups not be used: and iii other non-audit acquisition.
The Committee received reports malpractice reporting service on issues of services where the Auditor may be used on the Friends Life acquisition from Internal malpractice that have been raised and the which include non-recurring internal Audit in July and November which focused Committee was satisfied that none of the controls and risk management reviews on the impact of the acquisition on the reports received in 2015 made allegations excluding outsourcing of internal audit overall control environment of the Group of financial malpractice.
work, advice on financial reporting and and closely monitored the integration plan In response to the new regulatory regulatory matters, due diligence on that was put in place.
requirement for whistleblowing in large acquisitions and disposals project assurance financial services firms, including insurers, and advice, tax compliance services and How does the Committee satisfy I agreed to be the whistleblowers employee tax services.
itself that its members meet the champion for the Group.
In 2015 the Group paid PwC 19.3 requirements of the UK Corporate million 2014: 14.7 million for audit and 1 Governance Code, the Disclosure and How does the Committee satisfy itself audit-related assurance services, with the Transparency Rules and the US that the External Auditor remains overall increase due to the fee for the requirements for financial expertise?
audit of the acquired Friends Life As part of the annual review of the  LLP PwC was subsidiaries, including the acquisition effectiveness of the Committee, the appointed as the Groups External Auditor balance sheet.
expertise of the members is considered and Auditor in 2012 following a formal tender In addition, PwC were paid 15.2 reviewed based on their recent and relevant process.
The external audit contract will be million 2014: 11.5 million for other experience against each of the criteria as put out to tender at least every ten years.
services, giving a total fee to PwC of 34.5 set out in the Code, the Disclosure and The Committee conducts an annual million 2014: 26.2 million.
Transparency Rules and the US review of the Auditor through completion This included 11.6 million relating to requirements.
of a questionnaire by the Committee, SII implementation assurance fees.
Following the review in respect of senior management across the Group and SII implementation is a major project 2015, a recommendation was made to members of the Groups finance requiring substantial model validation the Board, which confirmed that I, as community.
The questionnaire seeks assurance that the Company believes is Chairman of the Audit Committee, opinions on the importance of certain most appropriately performed by the fulfilled each of the requirements and that criteria and the performance of the principal Auditor.
In view of the Patricia Cross, Michael Hawker and Bob Auditor against those criteria.
The significance and scale of this work, the Stein met the US requirements to be an Committee concluded that PwC continued Committee specifically assessed the audit committee financial expert.
to perform effectively and is suitability of PwC to provide this service.
In line with the Standard, the How does the Committee monitor the The Company has complied during Committee satisfied itself that for all noncontrol environment across the the financial year under review and up to audit engagements, robust controls were Group?
the date of this report with the Statutory in place to ensure that PwCs objectivity The Committee receives quarterly updates Audit Services for Large Companies and independence was safeguarded, and on the effectiveness of the Financial Market Investigation Mandatory Uses of concluded that it was in the interests of Reporting Control Framework FRCF.
Competitive Tender Process and Audit the Company to purchase these services During the year these have included Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. from PwC due to their specific expertise.
updates on the progress to align financial The Company has an External Auditor Further details are provided in note 12 of reporting controls processes within the Business Standard in place which is aimed the financial statements.
heritage-Friends Life businesses with the at safeguarding and supporting the FRCF methodology.
In addition, it receives independence and objectivity of the regular updates on progress to embed the Auditor Standard.
This Standard is in full new approach to managing operational compliance with all UK, US and risks and controls formerly Integrated International Federation of Accountants Assurance Implementation and reports on rules and takes into account the Auditing the Groups MCITs.
Practices Board Ethical Standards for Auditors.
1 Including the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements, the audit of Group subsidiaries, additional fees relating to the prior year audit of Group subsidiaries and audit-related assurance services.
92 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance What are the Committees main priorities for 2016?
During 2016 the Committee will continue to focus on the following issues: the appropriateness of the significant issues and judgements and the methodology and assumptions used in relation to the Groups financial statements review of the formal announcements on the Groups financial performance to ensure significant issues are appropriately disclosed developments in the market around the LTVS to ensure the Companys approach remains appropriate for 2017 the review of the services provided by the Auditor, the ongoing independence of the Auditor, legal and regulatory developments relating to external audit services and the application and appropriateness of the External Auditor Business Standard the performance of the Chief Audit Officer CAO and the Internal Audit function and the appropriateness of the remuneration of the CAO the 2016 Internal Audit Plan the review of managements progress in addressing the MCITs, in particular the Fraud Management MCIT which has been allocated to the Committee the inclusion of the heritage-Friends Life entities in the scope of Avivas attestation for 2016 to meet the financial control requirements for the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley SOx Act for its US Listing the impact of the revised model used to value equity release mortgage loans held by the UK Life Annuity business in line with the focus by the regulator on increasing the level of challenge that an audit committee should pose in its review of risk management and internal controls: the Committee will consider how best it can look to improve this area of activity during 2016.
Glyn Barker Chairman of the Audit Committee 9 March 2016 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 93 Directors and corporate governance report continued Audit Committee Responsibilities and allocation of agenda time Internal Controls, including the Financial Statements and accounting financial reporting control policies 32% framework and financial reporting Review the significant issues and judgements developments 36% of management, and the methodology and Assess the effectiveness of the Groups assumptions used in relation to the Groups system of internal control and risk financial statements and formal announcements 32 management.
on the Groups financial performance.
36 Review the Groups going concern Internal Audit 16% assumptions and the assumptions for Approve and monitor the application the LTVS.
of the Internal Audit Charter and Business Standard.
External Audit, auditor engagement Discuss control issues identified by and policy 16% Internal Audit and review reports on the Consider and make recommendations to the Groups malpractice reporting.
Board on the appointment, reappointment, Assess the effectiveness of the Internal 16 dismissal or resignation, effectiveness, 16 Audit function, review the performance of independence and objectivity of the External the CAO, and agree his remuneration.
Auditor and agree their remuneration.
Consider and monitor the application and appropriateness of the External Auditor Business Standard.
Activities during 2015 Financial Statements and accounting policies The Committee monitored the impact of the acquisition of Friends Life on the Groups MCEV and IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements, including the adoption of the Groups accounting policies and methodologies Following the acquisition of Friends Life, the UK Life business now represents a significant proportion of the Group and the Committee has focused on the key issues and judgements applied in UK Life, in particular the key economic and demographic assumptions.
These include expenses, longevity, pensions and bond lapses, which were considered at an ad hoc meeting of the Committee in December 2015 and the impact of the revised equity release model adopted in 2014 The Committee considered the implications of preparing for SII on the Companys Financial Statements and the suitability of PwC to perform the model validation assurance The provisions relating to commercial mortgages, in particular relating to credit default, and corporate bonds were fully reviewed together with the sale of a portfolio of higher risk mortgages in the second half of 2015 The reserving position relating to the Groups life assurance and general insurance operations were reviewed The Committee reviewed goodwill and other intangible assets The Committee reviewed the going concern assumptions for 2015 and the principles underpinning the LTVS External audit, auditor engagement and policy A formal response was submitted to the regulator in relation to the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA consultation on implementing audit committee requirements under the revised Statutory Audit Directive in the European Union The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the External Auditor and was satisfied that the services provided by the External Auditor remained effective, objective and fit for purpose The Committee reviewed PwCs compliance with the independence criteria and the steps taken by PwC to ensure that it was able to act for the larger Group following the acquisition of Friends Life The Committee monitored compliance with the External Auditor Business Standard on a quarterly basis and three minor breaches of our Internal Standard were identified during the year relating to pre-approvals and an employment screening.
In each case the processes were reviewed and improved to prevent reoccurrence.
These were not breaches of the SEC independence rules and did not impact PwCs formal independence of the Group The Committee reviewed the Groups External Auditor Business Standard and refreshed it in November 2015 to align the presentation with the requirements of its Group-wide operational risks and control programme Internal Audit The Committee reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Charter and Business Standard The Committee concluded that the Internal Audit function was performing well, was sufficiently resourced and had demonstrated continued improvement The Committee reviewed and agreed that the CAOs independence had been maintained and was satisfied that his annual performance related bonus was unconnected to the Groups financial performance Internal Controls, including the financial reporting control framework The Committee received quarterly updates on the effectiveness of the FRCF framework and rectification of controls The Committee monitored progress to address the MCITs allocated to the Committee The Committee reviewed the Internal Audit function report and the Internal Audit Plan for 2015 and 2016 to ensure adequacy of the systems of control The Committee undertook a benchmarking exercise of the Groups IT controls and assessed the impact of the integration of the heritageFriends Life entities on the overall control environment 94 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
