Governance Governance Committee report I am pleased to present the Governance Committees report for the year ended 31 December 2015 The Board strongly believes that good the governance processes within our governance and strong, responsible UK Digital business.
leadership is critical to creating long-term The Committees remit also shareholder value and business success.
includes employee talent management During the year the Committee continued and development programmes to its oversight of conduct risk throughout create a sustainable future workforce.
the Group and also focused on the The Committee receives a summary of development of the Subsidiary the 2015 Voice of Aviva employee Governance Principles and the governance survey results, further details on this of the Companys digital business.
can be found in the Our People and Communities section of the Strategic Report.
0BCommittee Membership During 2015 the Committee established the Subsidiary Governance Member since: Principles.
What are the main benefits How has the Committee reviewed and Scott Wheway, 05 12 2007 Chairman of these Principles?
challenged the Groups delivery of Beln Romana Garca 26 06 2015 We believe that effective and accountable good outcomes for customers during subsidiary boards are critical to ensuring the year?
Michael Mire 12 09 2013 best practice corporate governance During the year the treatment of Sir Malcolm Williamson 14 05 2015 throughout the Group.
In 2015 we customers has continued to be a produced the Aviva Subsidiary Governance significant focus for the Committee.
Core This year we welcomed Sir Malcolm to this has been the Williamson and Beln Romana Garca to quarterly review by the the Committee and I am grateful to all Committee on the members for their support and dedication performance of a series of in 2015.
Sir Adrian Montague retired from We believe that effective and key risk indicators in the Committee on 14 May 2015.
The relation to customer accountable subsidiary boards members of the Committee are shown in outcomes and experience the table above and details of members are critical to ensuring best in each of the Groups attendance at Committee meetings business units.
The practice corporate governance during the year are shown in the table Committee also receives a in the directors and corporate throughout the Group report from the Group governance report.
Regulatory Director at each meeting in relation to any What is the main function of the Scott Wheway material concerns Governance Committee and what is Chairman, Governance Committee regarding the treatment of its role?
customers that may have The Committees role is to help the Board Principles which provide a framework for arisen within the Group, and the adequacy to shape and direct the culture and ethical the governance standards expected of of managements response in addressing values of the Aviva Group by overseeing subsidiary companies within the Group.
and advising on conduct, reputation, They cover a range of topics including The Groups business units continually corporate responsibility and sustainability, strategy and planning, remuneration, reassess and reappraise their performance people, regulatory and financial crime shareholder interaction and governance in delivering good customer outcomes.
The focus of the Committee accountability.
Our case study later in the part of reinforcing this discipline, the adapts as the business and regulatory report provides further information on the Committee has reviewed the action plans environment evolves for example, in development of the Principles and their developed to further embed the Conduct 2014 we extended the remit to oversee implementation.
Risk Management Framework into each all forms of risk that impact customer business and address any issues regarding outcomes and during 2015 to oversee the treatment of customers.
During the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 95 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 95 Directors and corporate governance report continued year the Committee has discussed with and focuses our attention on where we the chief executive officers of our UK life can make the biggest difference for our Governance structure business, UK & Ireland general insurance customers and communities.
We take our responsibilities as a business, Aviva Investors business, The CR strategy was considered and business very seriously and that Canada, France, Poland and Turkey their approved by the Committee because CR is includes having robust oversight plans for further enhancing and integral to the way we run our whole arrangements so that decisions are embedding conduct risk management business and we recognise that our CR debated, challenged and the business within their businesses.
performance and reputation helps build is held to account.
That means better With the development of the Groups the pride of our employees and win the decisions and better products and digital strategy and the decision to establish trust of our customers.
Customers are at services for our customers.
UK Digital to drive forward the strategy in the heart of the new CR strategy and our We believe good governance is the UK, the Committee has taken a central new Good Thinking brand.
The strategy is a two way process, and we have drawn role in overseeing the development of UK designed to inspire good thinking that up a set of Subsidiary Governance Digital as a legal entity and monitoring the benefits our customers, wider Principles which provide clarity on the customer risks that the new business will communities and the world in which relationship of Aviva plc, as the encounter.
To ensure this is achieved in a we operate.
ultimate shareholder, and subsidiary robust way the Committee has reviewed boards to articulate expectations in respect of governance.
and challenged the businesss plans and What are the Committees priorities The Principles cover a range of progress on a regular basis.
topics including strategy and planning, can be seen in the digital governance case The Committee will retain its focus on remuneration, shareholder interaction study earlier in the directors and corporate the areas outlined earlier in the report with Aviva plc and governance governance report.
with continued attention on the accountability.
They are designed to treatment of customers.
provide clarity and co-operation, and The Committee is responsible for The Committee will, in addition, focus help support better business decisions the oversight of talent development on embedding its oversight of the which provides better results for within the Group.
How do you governance structure of the UK Digital shareholders and customers.
business: monitoring the application of the Principles were reviewed externally, by The Nomination Committee is responsible Subsidiary Governance Principles: the chairs of the subsidiary boards and for Board and executive level recruitment providing guidance and oversight in the the independent directors of the audit, and succession planning and the area of talent development and building conduct and risk committees.
The Governance Committee has responsibility an internal pipeline for senior leadership Committee sponsored this process and for developing talent below this level.
Furthermore, the Committee will will spend time in 2016 ensuring the The development of talent is critical to retain its oversight of the Groups Principles are embedded throughout delivering the Groups strategy.
In 2015, the relationship with the Financial Conduct the Group.
Committee actively supported progress in Authority and other regulatory bodies and this area, including the creation and launch monitor the implementation of the Senior of a new international general management Insurance Managers Regime.
programme for graduates, with the aim of attracting and developing future talent into the Company.
We recognise that further work in this area remains to be done, especially around Scott Wheway developing a robust talent pipeline for Chairman of the Governance Committee critical senior leadership roles.
A new 9 March 2016 programme to assess and develop potential successors to these senior roles will be a focus for 2016.
We believe that Aviva has a very talented pool of people from which it can develop leaders and the Committee will continue to provide appropriate oversight and guidance in this area.
The Committee agreed the refreshed Aviva Group Corporate Responsibility CR strategy during 2015.
As the Group heads into a new phase of transformation we need a CR strategy that supports our strategic anchor and helps us deliver on our purpose.
We can use CR in digital channels and communications to help build life long relationships with customers, and we can use our influence to help tackle the big issues in our industry and our world such as sustainability and climate change.
The new strategy, which is outlined earlier in the Strategic Report, builds on our historic strengths, ensures we have a strong governance foundation 96 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 96 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Governance Committee Responsibilities and allocation of agenda time Regulatory and Financial Crime Customer, Conduct and 24% Reputational Risk 22% Review relationships with the conduct Review and monitor strategy, the Groups regulatory and competition authorities risk profile and the effectiveness of the 22 24 and the actions taken in respect of risk management control framework as it regulatory developments.
relates to customer outcomes, franchise Review the reporting process in value and reputation.
respect of any material regulatory Work with the Risk Committee in breaches.
respect of the impact of any material Set and monitor the effectiveness of conduct and reputation risks on the 11 the Groups procedures and controls Groups capital and liquidity position.
relating to the Groups conduct and Review the Groups overall culture 13 financial crime risk appetite and the and values as they influence risk to prevention of financial crime.
People 13% Corporate Responsibility 11% 30 Review and approve the Business Ethics Recommend and review the Groups Code and the Groups policies on CR strategy and monitor external diversity, employees, suppliers and the developments and environmental communities in which it operates to regulations.
Governance 30% ensure these are in line with the Groups Review the Groups Environment and Shape the corporate governance principles, culture ethical values.
Climate Change Business Standard and and ethical values of the Group in line with the Review senior and critical talent monitor compliance with the CR strategy.
Work with the Risk Committee Oversee subsidiary governance throughout Review the key themes and to monitor any CR risk exposures.
the Group including UK Digital and review any management of action plans from the legal or litigation risks for the Group and the annual employee survey.
Activities during 2015 Customer, Conduct and Reputational Risk The Committee received reports on conduct risk management at each meeting to enable it to monitor compliance with regulatory standards and to ensure good customer outcomes Under the Group-wide framework for the consistent management and reporting of conduct risk, different business units were invited to attend meetings to discuss their progress in ensuring good customer outcomes.
In 2015 this included the UK life, UK & Ireland general insurance, Aviva Investors, Aviva Canada, Aviva France, Aviva Poland and Aviva Turkey Reports detailing ongoing and possible reputational risks and brand and franchise risks were considered by the Committee.
These also included any media or public policy issues The Committee received regular updates on the customer outcome metrics relating to sales, retention, claims experience and complaints Corporate Responsibility The Committee received reports from management during the year on the Aviva Community Fund, the Groups low carbon investment strategy, the Groups health and safety compliance and the Groups Human Rights Policy CR strategy and particularly the link to the brand strategy were regularly reviewed during the year The Committee reviewed and approved the Aviva Investors Voting Policy and Stewardship Statement For the 2015 reporting year, independent assurance on the Groups CR reporting was provided by  Governance The Committee received regular updates from the Group Company Secretary on governance matters, legal and litigation risks which had the potential to impact the reputation of the Group and reviewed and approved changes to the composition of the material subsidiary boards.
The Committee oversaw the development of the Subsidiary Governance Principles Other matters reviewed included reviewing and monitoring the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and other areas of regulation and guidance: monitoring the integration of the Friends Life business with regard to governance issues: subsidiary board and committee effectiveness review outcomes and associated actions: and the governance oversight framework for the UK Digital business and specifically its application to the Financial Conduct Authority to act as a regulated intermediary Monitored certain Major Control Improvement Topics data governance protection, fraud management and conduct risk, including the significant enhancement of the Groups Business Protection Business Standard in 2015, the progress to improve fraud and conduct control awareness and training and the Group-wide rollout of a consistent sanction screening tool People The Committee has continued to monitor progress regarding embedding Avivas values and the engagement of employees and has considered regular reports on talent development and the Groups diversity and inclusion strategy.
In monitoring employee engagement the Committee reviewed the results of the annual Voice of Aviva survey prior to discussion at the Board Approved the Business Ethics code Regulatory and Financial Crime Received regular regulatory updates from the Group Compliance Officer The Committee was responsible for oversight of the Groups relationship and interaction with the Financial Conduct Authority and has monitored preparations to implement the Senior Insurance Managers Regime Reviewed regular reports on the Groups financial crime prevention procedures and controls and any associated actions and the effectiveness of the anti-bribery controls Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 97 Directors and corporate governance report continued Paid interim dividend of 6.75 pence subject to relevant legislation and, in Other statutory per ordinary share 2014: 5.85 pence certain circumstances including in relation information Proposed final dividend of 14.05 to the issue or buying back by the pence per ordinary share 2014: 12.25 Company of its shares, are subject to The directors submit their annual report pence authority being given to the directors by and accounts for Aviva plc, together with Total ordinary dividend of 20.80 pence shareholders in general meeting.
the consolidated financial statements of per ordinary share 2014: 18.1 pence, At the 2016 AGM, shareholders will the Aviva group of companies, for the year Total cost of ordinary dividends paid in be asked to renew the directors authority ended 31 December 2015.
2015 was 635 million 2014: to allot new securities.
Details are The directors report required under 449 million contained in the 2016 Notice of Annual the Companies Act 2006 comprises this General Meeting Notice of AGM.
directors and corporate governance Subject to shareholder approval at the report: the directors remuneration report 2016 AGM, the final dividend for 2015 Restrictions on transfer of securities and the following disclosures in the will become due and payable on 17 May With the exception of restrictions on the strategic report: 2016 to all holders of ordinary shares on transfer of ordinary shares under the Environment and climate change for the Register of Members at the close of Companys employee share incentive disclosure of our greenhouse gas business on 8 April 2016 approximately plans, whilst the shares are subject to the emissions five business days later for holders of the rules of the plans, there are no restrictions Increasing diversity and inclusion for Companys American Depositary Receipts.
on the transfer rights attaching to the details of our policy on employment Further details on the companys dividend Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of disabled persons policy is set out on pages 320 to 321 and of securities in the Company.
Engaging with our people for details details of any dividend waivers are Where, under an employee share of employee involvement disclosed in note 32. incentive plan operated by the Company, The proposed acquisition of the RBC participants are the beneficial owners of General Insurance Company since the Share class and listing shares but not the registered owners, the end of the year All the Companys shares in issue are fully voting rights are normally exercised at the paid up and the ordinary and preference discretion of the participants.
No person The management report required under shares have a Premium and Standard holds securities in the Company carrying Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
5R listing respectively on the London Stock special rights with regard to control of the comprises the strategic report, shareholder Exchange.
The Company is listed on the Company.
The Company is not aware of information which includes the risks New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the any agreements between holders of relating to our business, and details of form of American Depositary Shares, securities that may result in restrictions in material acquisitions and disposals made referenced to ordinary shares, under a the transfer of securities or voting rights.
by the Group during the year which are depositary agreement with Citibank.
This directors and Details of the Companys share capital and Significant agreements change corporate governance report fulfils the shares under option at 31 December 2015 of control requirements of the corporate governance and shares issued during the year are There are a number of agreements that statement under Disclosure and given in notes 30 to 33. take effect, alter or terminate upon a Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. change of control of the Company Share capital following a takeover bid, such as Our Policy on Hedging The issued ordinary share capital commercial contracts and joint venture The hedging policy can be found in note of the Company was increased by agreements.
None are considered to be 58 and details of likely future 1,097,977,833 ordinary shares during the significant in terms of their potential developments are set out in the strategic year which were allotted in respect of the impact on the business of the Group as a report.
acquisition of Friends Life and to satisfy whole.
All of the Companys employee amounts under the Groups employee share incentive plans contain provisions Results share and incentive plans.
relating to a change of control.
The Groups results for the year are shown At 31 December 2015 the: Outstanding awards and options would in the consolidated income statement.
issued ordinary share capital totalled normally vest and become exercisable on a 4,048,465,173 shares of 25 pence change of control, subject to the Related Party Transactions each satisfaction of any performance conditions Related party transactions are disclosed in issued preference share capital totalled and pro rata reduction as may be note 60 which is incorporated into this 200,000,000 shares of 1 each applicable under the rules of the employee report by reference.
Further details on the ordinary share 2016 Annual general meeting AGM capital of the Company are shown in Authority to purchase own shares Details are provided in the shareholder Note 30.
At the Companys 2015 AGM, services section on page 351. shareholders renewed the Companys Rights and obligations attaching to authorities to make market purchases of Post balance sheet events that the Companys ordinary shares and up to 295 million ordinary shares, up to occurred subsequent to preference shares 100 million 8% preference shares and 31 December 2015 3 Rights and obligations together with the up to 100 million 8 8% preference shares.
Details of significant events that have powers of the Companys directors are set These authorities were not used during occurred subsequent to 31 December out in the Companys articles of the year or up to the date of this report.
2015 are disclosed in notes 3, 24 and 63. association, copies of which can be At the 2016 AGM, shareholders will be obtained from Companies House and the asked to renew these authorities for Dividends Companys website at another year and the resolution will once Dividends for ordinary shareholders of www.
com articles, or by writing to again propose a maximum aggregate Aviva plc are as follows: the Group Company Secretary.
The number of ordinary shares which the powers of the Companys directors are Company can purchase of less than 10% 98 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance of the issued ordinary share capital.
Details only continue as a director if they are incur any other political expenditure.
are contained in the Notice of AGM.
The elected by shareholders at the AGM.
However, definitions of political donations Company held no treasury shares during At no time during the year did any and political expenditure used in the the year or up to the date of this report.
director hold a material interest in any Companies Act 2006 are broad in nature contract of significance with the Company and this authority is sought to ensure that Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 or any of its subsidiary undertakings other any activities undertaken throughout the major shareholders than an indemnity provision between each Group, which could otherwise be The table below shows the holdings of director and the Company and construed to fall within these provisions, major shareholders in the Companys employment contracts between each can be undertaken without inadvertently issued ordinary share capital in accordance executive director and a Group company.
During the year, Aviva with the Disclosure and Transparency The Company has purchased and Canada Inc. spent a total of CA$5,650 Rules as at 31 December 2015 and maintained throughout the year directors 2,757 based on the exchange rate as at 8 March 2016. and officers liability insurance in respect 31 December 2015 on tickets to attend of itself and its directors.
The Company events hosted by Canadian Members of has also executed deeds of indemnity for Provincial Parliament.
Attendance at these the benefit of each director of the events enabled representatives from Aviva Shareholding interest Company, and each person who was a Canada to engage with local parties in At 31 December At 8 March director of the Company during the year, relation to certain issues including Ontario 2015 2016 in respect of liabilities that may attach to auto reforms, a review of the Ontario Notified Nature of Notified Nature of them in their capacity as directors of the regulator and the introduction Shareholder holdings holding holdings holding Company or of associated companies.
No other political BlackRock, Above Above 1 The articles of association allow such expenditure was incurred by the Aviva Inc 5% Indirect 5% Indirect indemnities to be granted.
These indemnities were granted at 1 Holding includes holdings of subsidiaries.
different times according to the law in Disclosure of information to Directors place at the time and where relevant are the auditor qualifying third-party indemnity provisions In accordance with section 418 of the The directors as at the date of this report are shown together with their biographical as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors in office Companies Act 2006.
These indemnities at the date of approval of this report confirm details earlier in the report.
During the year and up to the date of this report, were in force throughout the year and are that, so far as they are each aware, there is currently in force.
Details of directors no relevant audit information of which the the following Board appointments, resignations and retirements occurred: remuneration, service contracts, Companys External Auditor, employment contracts and interests in  PwC, is unaware the shares of the Company are set out in and each director has taken all reasonable the directors remuneration report.
steps that ought to have been taken as a Appointments: The Company has also granted director to be aware of any relevant audit indemnities by way of a deed poll to the information and to establish that PwC is Effective Director Position Date directors of the Groups subsidiary aware of that information.
Sir Malcolm Senior 29 04 2015 companies, including former directors who Williamson Independent retired during the year.
Annual general meeting Director The 2016 AGM of the Company will be Andy Briggs Chief Executive 29 04 2015 Financial instruments held on Wednesday, 4 May 2016 at the Officer of Aviva Group companies use financial Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad UK Life and instruments to manage certain types of Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P Chairman of Global Life risks, including those relating to credit, 3EE at 11am.
The Notice of AGM Beln Romana Independent 26 06 2015 foreign currency exchange, cash flow, convening the meeting describes the Non-Executive Garca liquidity, interest rates, and equity and business to be conducted thereat.
Details of the objectives details can be found in the shareholder Independent Claudia Arney 08 02 2016 and management of these instruments information section of the Notice of AGM.
Non-Executive are contained in the risk and capital Director management section, the shareholder Articles of association information section and in note 57 on risk Unless expressly stated to the contrary in management.
the articles, the Companys articles may only be amended by special resolution of Retirement Resignation: Political donations the shareholders.
The Companys current Effective At the 2015 AGM, shareholders passed a articles were adopted on 29 April 2015.
Director Position Date resolution, on a precautionary basis, to John McFarlane Chairman 29 04 2015 authorise the Company and its subsidiaries Going concern Gay Huey Evans Independent 29 04 2015 to make political donations and or incur The Groups business activities, together Non-Executive political expenditure as such terms are with the factors likely to affect its future Director defined in sections 362 to 379 of the development, performance and position Companies Act 2006, in each case in are set out in the strategic report.
The The rules regarding the appointment and amounts not exceeding 100,000 in performance review includes the risk and replacement of directors are contained in aggregate.
As the authority granted will capital management section.
In addition, the Companys articles of association the expire at the 2016 AGM, renewal of this the financial statements sections include articles.
Under the Companys articles, the authority will be sought at this years notes on the Groups borrowings note Board can appoint additional directors or AGM.
Further details are available in the 49 : its contingent liabilities and other risk appoint a director to fill a casual vacancy.
It is not the policy of the factors note 52 : its capital structure and The new director must retire at the first Company to make donations to European position note 54 : management of its risks AGM following their appointment and can Union EU political organisations or to including market, credit and liquidity risk Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 99 Directors and corporate governance report continued note 57 : and derivative financial taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and state whether applicable IFRSs as instruments note 58. understandable, the Board considered the adopted by the EU and IFRSs issued by The Group has considerable financial process followed to draft the Annual IASB have been followed, subject to resources together with a diversified report and accounts: any material departures disclosed and business model, with a spread of each section of the Annual report and explained in the financial statements businesses and geographical reach.
As a accounts is prepared by a member of prepare the financial statements on consequence, the directors believe that management with appropriate the going concern basis unless it is the Group is well placed to manage its knowledge, seniority and experience.
inappropriate to presume that the business risks successfully.
Each preparer receives guidance on Company and the Group will continue After making enquiries, the directors the requirement for content included in business have a reasonable expectation that the in the Annual report and accounts to Company and the Group as a whole have be fair, balanced and understandable The directors are responsible for keeping adequate resources to continue in the overall co-ordination of the adequate accounting records that are operational existence for a period of at production of the Annual report and sufficient to show and explain the least 12 months from the date of approval accounts is overseen by the Chief Companys transactions and disclose with of the financial statements.
For this Accounting Officer to ensure reasonable accuracy at any time the reason, they continue to adopt, and to consistency across the document financial position of the Company and the consider appropriate, the going concern an extensive verification process is Group and enable them to ensure that the basis in preparing the financial statements.
undertaken to ensure factual accuracy financial statements and the directors comprehensive reviews of drafts of the remuneration report comply with the Longer-term viability statement Annual report and accounts are Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the It is fundamental to the Groups longerundertaken by members of the Group Group financial statements, Article 4 of term strategy that the directors manage Executive and, other members of the IAS Regulation.
They are also and monitor risk taking into account all senior management, and in relation to responsible for safeguarding the assets of key risks the Group faces, including certain parts of the report external the Company and the Group and hence longer-term insurance risks, so that it can legal advisers and the External Auditor for taking reasonable steps for the continue to meet its obligations to an advanced draft is considered and prevention and detection of fraud and policyholders.
The Group is also subject to reviewed by the Disclosure Committee other irregularities.
extensive regulation and supervision the final draft is reviewed by the The directors are responsible for including, from 1 January 2016, Solvency II Audit Committee prior to making, and continuing to make, the and as a result of being designated a consideration by the Board Companys Annual report and accounts Global Systemically Important Insurer by our Board members also receive drafts available on the website maintained by the the Financial Stability Board.
of the Annual report and accounts in Company.
Legislation in the United Against this background, the directors sufficient time to facilitate their review Kingdom governing the preparation and have assessed the prospects of the Group and input.
This includes the dissemination of financial statements may in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the opportunity to discuss the draft differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, Annual report and accounts with both The directors consider that the Annual with reference to the Groups current management and the External Auditor report and accounts, taken as a whole, is position and prospects, its strategy, risk and where appropriate challenging the fair, balanced and understandable and appetite, and the potential impact of the disclosures as appropriate provides the information necessary for principal risks and how these are managed shareholders to assess the Groups and the as detailed on pages 62-65 of the Directors responsibilities Companys position and performance, Strategic Report as well as note 57 of the The directors are responsible for preparing business model and strategy.
the Annual report, the directors Each of the directors, whose names The assessment of the Groups remuneration report and the financial and functions are listed on pages 70 to 73 prospects by the directors covers the three statements in accordance with applicable in the directors and corporate governance years to 2018 and is underpinned by law and regulations.
report confirm that, to the best of their managements 2016-2018 business plan Company law requires the directors knowledge: the Group financial which includes projections of the Groups to prepare financial statements for each statements, which have been prepared in capital, liquidity and solvency.
Under that law the directors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the The Groups stress and scenario testing have prepared the Group and parent EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, considers the Groups capacity to respond to company financial statements in liabilities, financial position and profit of a series of relevant financial, insurance e. g. accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the the Group: and the strategic report and catastrophe or operational shocks should EU.
In preparing these financial the directors and corporate governance future circumstances or events differ from statements, the directors have also elected report in this annual report include a fair these current assumptions.
The Group also to comply with IFRSs, issued by the review of the development and addresses the impacts of contingent International Accounting Standards Board performance of the business and the management actions designed to maintain IASB.
Under company law the directors position of the Group, together with a or restore key capital, liquidity and solvency must not approve the financial statements description of the principal risks and metrics to within the Groups approved risk unless they are satisfied that they give a uncertainties that it faces.
appetites over the planning period.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of By order of the Board on 9 March 2016.
Based on this assessment, the directors the Group and the Company and of the have a reasonable expectation that the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing Group will be able to continue in operation these financial statements, the directors and meet its liabilities as they fall due over are required to: the three year assessment period.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Fair, balanced and understandable make judgements and accounting Group Chief Chief Financial Officer To support the directors statement below estimates that are reasonable and Executive Officer that the Annual report and accounts, prudent 100 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance New York Stock Exchange listing requirements The Companys ordinary shares are admitted to the NYSE and are traded as American Depositary Shares.
As a foreign company listed on the NYSE, the Company is required to comply with the NYSE corporate governance rules to the extent that these rules apply to foreign private issuers.
As a foreign private issuer, the Company is therefore required to comply with NYSE Rule 303A.
11 by making a disclosure of the significant differences between the Companys corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies listed on NYSE.
The Company complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code in respect of its 2015 financial year and other relevant best practice principles and guidelines.
The significant differences between UK and US requirements are summarised below together with Avivas approach to compliance: NYSE Listing Rules UK Corporate Governance Code Aviva approach Independence criteria for directors Independent directors must form the majority of At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, The majority of the Board comprises independent the board of directors.
A director cannot qualify should comprise independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors NEDs who are deemed Directors, as determined by the Board.
The Code independent under the Code and meet the as independent unless the Board affirmatively sets out its own criteria that may be relevant to the independence criteria in the NYSE rules.
determines that the director has no material independence determination, but the Board is relationship with the company.
NYSE rules permitted to conclude affirmative independence prescribe a list of specific factors and tests that notwithstanding the existence of relationships or US-listed companies must use for determining circumstances which may appear relevant to its independence.
determination, so long as it states its reasons.
Non-executive director meetings Non-management directors of each listed company The Chairman should hold meetings with the The NEDs meet without Executive Directors present must meet at regularly scheduled executive at least once annually.
NEDs without the Executive Directors present.
sessions without management and, if that group includes directors who are not independent, listed companies should at least once a year schedule an executive session including only independent directors.
Committees US companies are required to have a The Company is required to have a Nomination The Company has a Nomination Committee and Nominating Corporate Governance Committee Committee but not a Corporate Governance a Governance Committee, each of which are comprised of independent directors.
A majority of the members of the comprised of Independent NEDs.
The Governance identifying individuals qualified to become Board Nomination Committee should be independent Committee assists the Board in shaping the culture members, this committee must develop and NEDs.
The Board is required to undertake a formal and values of the Group, however the Board as a recommend to the Board a set of corporate and rigorous annual appraisal of its own whole is ultimately responsible for the corporate governance principles and oversee the evaluation performance, externally facilitated at least every governance of the Group and oversees this of the Board and management.
through reports to the Board and its committees.
The Board conducts an annual appraisal of its own performance, as well as the performance of each of its committees and of individual directors.
US companies are required to have a The Company is required to have a Remuneration The Company has a Remuneration Committee Compensation Committee made up entirely Committee and under the Companies Act 2006 is comprised of independent NEDs which covers all required to obtain shareholder approval of the NYSE and Code requirements and recommends of independent directors.
remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The the remuneration policy for Executive Directors to Committee should be comprised of independent the Board and shareholders for approval.
US companies are required to have an audit The Company must have an Audit Committee and The Company has an Audit Committee comprised committee comprised of independent directors and at least one member must have recent and relevant of independent NEDs and at least one member that one member must meet the requirements to financial experience.
The Committee should be meets both the NYSE and Code requirements on be an Audit Committee financial expert.
The Audit comprised of independent NEDs.
The Audit Committee does Committee should also cover risk matters.
not review risk management as this is covered by the Risk and Governance Committees.
Code of business conduct and ethics Companies are required to adopt and disclose a Not required under the Code.
The Company has adopted a Business Ethics Code code of business conduct and ethics for directors, to which all employees are bound and a Code of officers and employees, and promptly disclose any Ethics for senior management, which complies waivers of the code for directors or executive with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. officers.
Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans Shareholders must be given the opportunity to Shareholder approval is necessary for certain equityAll new equity-compensation plans or vote on all equity-compensation plans and compensation plans and significant changes amendments to existing plans that are required to thereto, subject to certain exceptions.
material revisions to those plans, with limited be approved by shareholders under the Code are put to shareholders for approval.
Detailed definitions of material The Code does not provide a detailed definition revisions are provided by NYSE.
or explanation of what are considered to be significant changes.
By order of the Board Sir Adrian Montague Chairman 9 March 2016 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 101 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 101
