Governance Nomination Committee report In my role as Chairman, I am pleased to present the Nomination Committees report for the year ended 31 December 2015 This year the Committee has continued to proposed changes to the Board review the composition of the Board and following the acquisition of Friends Life.
the succession plans for executive The process to appoint the Chairman management.
was led by Scott Wheway, Chairman of the Governance Committee, and I withdrew from all discussions regarding the appointment process.
Committee Membership The other appointments to the Member since: Board made during the year were that Sir Adrian Montague, 06 03 2013 of Sir Malcolm Williamson as our Senior Chairman Independent Director, Andy Briggs as Claudia Arney 08 02 2016 an Executive Director and Beln Glyn Barker 01 07 2012 Romana Garca as an Independent Patricia Cross 01 12 2013 Non-Executive Director NED.
Sir Beln Romana Garca 26 06 2015 Malcolms and Andys appointments were Michael Hawker 01 07 2012 made against the backdrop of the How does the Group consider the successful completion of the acquisition of issue of succession planning?
Michael Mire 12 09 2013 Friends Life, and Aviva is now benefiting The Group has a history of developing Bob Stein 06 03 2013 from the industry wide experience that talent from within.
The transition of Scott Wheway 01 07 2012 they both bring to the Board.
With the Angela Darlington, our Chief Risk Officer Sir Malcolm Williamson 14 05 2015 addition of Beln, who has strong financial whose case study is featured later in this and European regulatory experience, there report, is a good example of the benefits During 2015, we welcomed Sir Malcolm is a good balance of skills, knowledge, this policy can bring.
Williamson and Beln Romana Garca to experience and diversity on the Board.
The Board takes succession planning the Committee and on 8 February 2016, very seriously and Claudia Arney was appointed to the following the changes that Committee.
John McFarlane and Gay were made at Board level Huey Evans retired from the Committee we increased our focus to The Committees purpose is on 29 April 2015.
I am grateful to all ensure that both the members for their support and dedication.
to ensure that the succession Board and the Committee conducted a detailed planning process and any What is the main function of the review and debate on the appointments made bring a Nomination Committee?
It was agreed that The Committee has overall responsibility balance of skills, knowledge, further attention to for succession planning and leading the executive succession experience and diversity to process for new appointments to the planning and contingency Board and the senior executive team.
Its the Board plans for a range of purpose is to ensure that the succession situations, including key planning process and any appointments personnel loss, was made bring a balance of skills, knowledge, Sir Adrian Montague required and we have Chairman, Nomination Committee experience and diversity to the Board and developed longer-term senior management of the Company.
plans that we are now Subsequent to the year-end we have also implementing.
The initial work we What have been the main challenges appointed Claudia Arney who brings embarked upon in 2015 in relation to faced in 2015?
extensive digital experience to the Board.
succession planning and development 2015 has been a period of significant Further information on each director can will continue to remain a focus for the activity and the Committee held seven be found in their biographies and on the Committee in 2016. meetings during the year.
Its main priority Companys website at was to oversee the smooth succession of www.
the Chairman and to consider the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 85 Directors and corporate governance report continued What prompted the changes to the suitable candidates.
From the initial currently possess.
During 2016, the skills composition of the Board committees interviews, a shortlist was submitted to matrix will be integral to the Committees in May 2015?
planning and discussions for developing We review the membership of each Board For selected candidates further further the Boards succession plans.
committee annually and, following the interviews were held and, for the As part of this ongoing process the 2015 review, recommended a number of preferred candidate, interviews with the Committee will consider the skills and changes for approval by the Board.
This Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer experience of the Board, taking into was with the intention of refreshing and CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and all account all relevant aspects of diversity, to strengthening the performance of each NEDs were held.
Interviews focused on ensure that there remains a good balance committee.
Details of the members of testing whether the candidates had the on the Board which supports the Groups each committee and their attendance at required skills, experience and values and culture.
As set out earlier in the meetings are shown in the table in the competencies for the role as well as report, Scott Wheway is due to retire from directors and corporate governance report.
assessing whether candidates would be a the Board on 31 December 2016 and the good fit for the Board.
composition of the Board will continue to Will you appoint more women to In view of Belns background and be reviewed.
industry experience the Committee The Committee will also review the Aviva continues to have an aspiration to considered that Beln possessed the outcomes of the 2016 effectiveness review increase female representation on the required skills and experience and invited in respect of its performance, agree any Board and the Committee acknowledges her to become a NED and a member of actions and monitor these going forward.
that the Board is currently just below its the Governance, Nomination and Risk policy of 25% female representation, at Committees on 26 June 2015.
We are committed to improving this A similar process, also supported by position as soon as is reasonably possible JCA Group, was followed in the and have made good progress in the appointment of Claudia Arney.
Sir Adrian Montague CBE diversity balance at senior management Chairman of the Nomination Committee level as shown in the charts earlier in my Do you think it is important to have 9 March 2016 governance letter.
Having said that, diversity at Aviva The assessment of the Board includes but is not limited to gender.
and its committees through an annual Within the topic of diversity there are a evaluation has now become a part of the variety of different aspects, including normal governance cycle and we do professional and industry experience, consider it to be a very useful process.
understanding of different geographical We plan our evaluation on the basis that regions and ethnic background as well as at least every three years we will conduct different perspectives and skills.
Each of an external evaluation.
External these components is equally important evaluations were held in both 2013 and in and ensuring that we have the right mix 2015 as we felt that it was beneficial to of each is also vital.
In making new bring forward our external evaluation appointments, the Board will have regard given the Board changes and the Friends to gender but will remain focused on Life acquisition last year.
recruiting, on merit, the best candidate For our evaluation in 2016, we have for any future roles.
engaged with the external facilitator we used in both 2013 and 2015 to help us What are the steps you take to design the questionnaire that we will use identify and appoint new directors?
for our internal evaluation to ensure that The process is rigorous and transparent.
we have a level of consistency and build The Committee identifies the skills and on the themes of previous reviews.
We experience that it would like to have at welcome the opportunity to assess what both Board and executive level and these we do and to look at how effectively we qualities are recorded into a skills matrix.
It is also useful to review the The steps we took to identify Beln commitment of individual directors to Romana Garca, whom we appointed to ensure that they have enough time and the Board in June 2015, were broadly energy available to devote to the job.
I am satisfied that all our directors do so.
During the year the Committee expressed the desire to appoint an What are the Committees priorities additional NED to the Board with financial in 2016?
services experience and engaged the The Committee made a recommendation global executive headhunting firm, JCA to the Board that Claudia Arney be Group, which has no other connection to appointed as a NED and this appointment the Aviva Group and is a signatory to the was made on 8 February 2016.
This Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive appointment is in line with the Search Firms.
Committees plans for succession that Following several meetings with them were identified during 2015 and has and after reviewing our skills matrix, we helped the Company move nearer to agreed a detailed candidate brief which its target of having 25% of female included consideration for candidates with representation on the Board.
different backgrounds and they undertook The Committee has in place a skills the search process to identify a list of matrix which it uses to review and reflect on the skills that individual directors 86 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 86 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Nomination Committee Responsibilities and allocation of agenda time Evaluation and annual assessment Board composition 18% 10% Evaluate and review the composition of the Review the results of the annual Board Board including the balance of skills, 10 performance evaluation process.
18 knowledge, experience and diversity taking Assess the independence of each of the into account the Companys risk appetite NEDs and to make recommendations and strategy.
regarding the directors actual or potential Ensure that on appointment a director conflicts of interest.
has sufficient time to undertake the role.
Succession planning 39% Board pipeline 33% Monitor succession plans for the Identify and nominate suitable candidates appointment of executive directors and NEDs for appointment to the Board, including 39 to the Board and senior executives below chairmanship of the Board and its 33 Board level.
committees, against a specification for Ensure the Audit Committee has the role and capabilities required for the members with recent and relevant financial position.
experience who meet SEC requirements.
Activities during 2015 Board composition The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and in particular, whether the Board required additional skills and experience which would complement those of the existing Board members.
It also managed the transition of the Chairman and the induction process for three new directors Board pipeline The Board appointments of Sir Adrian Montague as Chairman, Sir Malcolm Williamson and Andy Briggs were agreed with effect from 29 April 2015.
The Committee concluded that the appointments would be beneficial and complement the composition of the Board given their knowledge and experience The Committee also engaged in an extensive search and interview process with the intention of appointing another NED to the Board.
Beln Romana Garca was subsequently appointed as a NED on 26 June 2015.
In addition, Claudia Arney was appointed as a NED on 8 February 2016 Succession planning Succession planning at both Board level and at executive level has been an area of focus for the Committee during the year In 2015 a number of senior management changes were made to strengthen the Group Executive team including the appointments of Andy Briggs and Angela Darlington Evaluation and annual assessment During the year, the effectiveness review of the Board, its committees, the Chairman and individual directors was conducted through an external evaluation process As part of the year-end review, the Committee reviewed the independence of each NED including each directors actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest The Committee concluded that each NED was independent in character and judgement and that there were no circumstances that were likely to affect their judgement Angela Darlington Succession Planning in Action Following the Friends Life acquisition and the appointment of John Lister as Chief Financial Officer of the enlarged UK Life business, Angela was appointed as Chief Risk Officer and as a member of the Group Executive in June 2015.
Angela has had a 15 year career with Aviva in a wide variety of leadership roles, most notably as UK Life Chief Actuary and UK Life Chief Risk Officer.
Angelas career at Aviva is a great example of how we support development and provide our best people with the opportunities to progress their careers across the Group.
Angela is a visible role model at Aviva and a good example of succession planning in action.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 87
