Board of directors: Biographies Board of Directors We have a strong, experienced and diverse Board with a good balance of skills Sir Adrian Montague, CBE Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Andy Briggs Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer of Officer Aviva UK Life and Nationality: Nationality: Chairman of Global Life British American Nationality: New Zealander Nationality: Appointment date: Appointment date: British 14 January 2013 28 April 2014 Appointment date: 8 May 2013 as Senior Independent 1 December 2012 Appointment date: Committee membership: Director 1 January 2013 as Chief Executive 29 April 2015 N A 29 April 2015 as Chairman Officer Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Skills and Experience: N A Nomination Committee Chair N A Tom brings to his position as Chief Financial Officer diverse Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: experience, having held senior Skills and Experience: Andy joined the Board to lead Avivas Sir Adrians previous experience positions in highly respected US Mark has extensive experience of enlarged UK Life business following as a Board member and as Senior firms including his role as head of leading major international the acquisition of Friends Life where Independent Director brings Global Financial Institutions insurance companies and has an he was group chief executive.
continuity to the Board and a Advisory at the investment and excellent track record as a focused He has more than 25 years of deep knowledge of the Company advisory firm Blackstone Advisory and inspirational business leader.
operational and executive and its businesses.
Under his leadership, Aviva has experience across life assurance Sir Adrian has significant Tom has played a fundamental emerged with a strong financial and general insurance, both in the experience of the financial services role in our strategic decision position and a clear strategy to UK and overseas.
He has extensive industry, government affairs and making and has continued to drive fully maximise the potential of the knowledge of the UK regulated regulatory matters.
He has forward our investment thesis of business.
In 2015 Mark led the environment combined with previously been the chairman of a cash flow plus growth.
Toms 6 billion acquisition by Aviva of experience in capital and risk number of companies across a considerable experience and the Friends Life Group and the management.
At Friends Life he variety of sectors including Friends financial expertise has also been subsequent integration which is led the transformation of the three Provident plc, Anglian Water invaluable in the Boards progressing ahead of schedule.
acquired businesses and brings his Group Ltd, British Energy Group deliberations concerning the Mark continues to lead strategic and business skills, plc, Michael Page International plc, acquisition of the Friends Life campaigns on issues of importance experience of organisational UK Green Investment Bank plc, 3i business and in our preparations to Avivas customers and has change, and knowledge of the Group plc and Cross London Rail for Solvency II.
emerged as a major commentator Friends Life business, to the Board.
Prior to joining the Company, in debates about the role of Andy was formerly chief He was formerly a partner at Tom worked primarily as an business in society.
executive officer of Scottish Linklaters & Paines.
investment banker, which included Previously, Mark worked for Widows plc, the life insurance advising Aviva.
He also has 14 years in Asia, including as chief business of Lloyds Banking Group External Appointments: experience as a corporate lawyer executive officer of AIA Group, plc and the Prudential Groups Sir Adrian is currently chairman and as an asset based lender.
of The Manchester Airports Group other senior positions were at repositioned AIA into the leading plc and The Point of Care External Appointments: Credit Suisse: Donaldson, Lufkin & pan-Asian insurance company, Foundation charity and nonAndy is deputy chair of the board Jenrette: and Cravath, Swaine & creating a stronger and executive director of Cellmark of the Association of British Moore LLP.
significantly more valuable Holdings AB forest products.
Insurers ABI and represents the independent entity, leading to the External Appointments: ABI at the Financial Conduct largest initial public offering in the Tom is a trustee of Trout Unlimited Authority Practitioner Panel.
He is corporate history of Hong Kong.
also a member of the NSPCCs External Appointments: fundraising committee.
70 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 70 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Executive Non-Executive Sir Malcolm Williamson Claudia Arney Glyn Barker Senior Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: British British British Appointment date: Appointment date: Appointment date: 29 April 2015 8 February 2016 27 February 2012 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Chair Governance Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Risk Committee Skills and Experience: Remuneration Committee Claudia has a wide range of experience as both an executive and Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: non-executive director across a Glyn has extensive experience as a Sir Malcolm brings to the Board number of sectors including financial business leader and a trusted adviser more than 50 years leadership services, digital and government.
to FTSE100 companies and their experience in the insurance and Previously Claudia was deputy boards on a wide variety of corporate banking sectors and has extensive chairman and senior independent and finance issues.
He possesses a knowledge of the UK life insurance director of Telecity plc, chairman of deep understanding of accounting market.
Sir Malcolm also brings a the Public Data Group and a nonand regulatory issues together with detailed knowledge of Friends Life, executive director of Which?, in-depth transactional and financial providing vital continuity during Doctors.
uk, Transport for London services experience.
the integration of the businesses.
In her executive Glyn was formerly vice chairman, Sir Malcolm gained extensive career, Claudia was group managing UK of  LLP experience while fulfilling a director of Emap and was responsible with responsibility for leading the number of senior positions for transforming the predominantly executive team for the Europe, including his role as chairman of print trade publishing business into a Middle East, Africa and India regions.
Clydesdale Bank plc, group chief digital data and information business.
External Appointments: executive of Standard Chartered External Appointments: Currently Glyn is chairman of plc and deputy chairman of Currently Claudia is a nonInterserve plc support services and Resolution plc.
executive director of Derwent construction, Irwin Mitchell law External Appointments: London plc commercial real firm and Transocean Partners LLC Sir Malcolm is currently chairman of estate, Halfords Group plc and the offshore drilling : non-executive Cass Business Schools Strategy and Premier League.
She is also a director of Transocean Ltd and Development Board, the Board of member of the Advisory Board of Berkeley Group Holdings plc Trustees of Youth Business the Shareholder Executive.
construction : and a trustee of International Ltd, the Governing English National Opera.
Council of the Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation and NewDay Group Ltd banking.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 71 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 71 H Boear ad d in of g directors: Biographies continued Patricia Cross Beln Romana Garca Michael Hawker, AM Michael Mire Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Australian Spanish Australian British Appointment date: Appointment date: Appointment date: Appointment date: 1 December 2013 26 June 2015 1 January 2010 12 September 2013 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Chair Governance Committee Risk Committee Chair Governance Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: Patricia brings a broad range of Beln brings to the Board Michael brings to the Board a Skills and Experience: experience and skills to the Board, significant experience of the wealth of knowledge and Michael has extensive experience gained over more than 30 years financial services industry, including experience gained over a long of implementing transformation across financial services and other a detailed knowledge of insurance career in the banking and programmes and also brings an regulated industries in the United and European regulation.
insurance industries, in both in-depth understanding of the States, Europe and Australia.
As a former Spanish civil executive and non-executive roles financial services sector.
She was previously group servant, Beln has held senior in Europe, Asia and Australia.
He has more than 30 years of executive, wholesale banking and positions at the Spanish Treasury, He was formerly chief executive experience in the financial services finance at National Australia Bank Ltd the International Monetary Fund, and managing director of Insurance and retail sectors.
He was formerly a and has worked in senior roles with the European Central Bank, the Australia Group, group chief senior partner at McKinsey & JP Morgan Chase and BNP Paribas.
Organisation for Economic executive of business and consumer Company and started his career Patricia was formerly a nonCo-operation and Development banking at Westpac Banking at N M Rothschild as an analyst.
executive director at Suncorpand the European Commission.
Corporation and chairman of the Michael also gained Metway Ltd insurance and Beln has held non-executive Insurance Council of Australia.
governmental experience at the banking, AMP Ltd insurance, positions at Ageas insurance, Central Policy Review Staff now External Appointments: Westfarmers Ltd ASX10 Acerinox stainless steel the Number 10 Policy Unit.
Michael is currently a nonconglomerate including insurance, manufacturing conglomerate and executive director of Macquarie External Appointments: Qantas Airways Ltd and National Banesto banking.
Group Ltd, Macquarie Bank Ltd Michael is currently the senior Australia Bank Ltd.
External Appointments: and Washington H Soul Pattinson independent director at the Care External Appointments: Beln is currently an independent Pty and Company Ltd investment.
Patricia is currently chair of the non-executive director of Michael is chairman of The Commonwealth Superannuation Banco Santander.
George Institute for Global Health.
Corporation and a non-executive director of Macquarie Group Ltd and Macquarie Bank Ltd. She is an ambassador for the Australian Indigenous Education Foundation.
72 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 72 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Executive Non-Executive Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Bob Stein Scott Wheway Kirstine Cooper Independent Independent Group General Counsel Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Company Secretary Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: American British British Appointment date: Appointment date: Appointment date: 28 January 2013 5 December 2007 22 December 2010 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Committee Governance Committee Chair N A Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Skills and Experience: Risk Committee Kirstine joined Aviva in 1991 and Skills and Experience: is the Group General Counsel and Skills and Experience: Scott has a wealth of business Company Secretary for Aviva plc Bob brings significant accounting experience in the retail sector and and heads the Office of the and financial services experience to a good understanding of customer Chairman.
the Board from his roles in priorities.
He brings expertise in She established the legal and actuarial, insurance and financial driving excellence in customer secretarial function as a global services practices.
team and is responsible for the He has had a number of Scott has served on the Board provision of legal services to the managing partner roles at Ernst for more than eight years giving Group, legal risk management, & Young, culminating in being him extensive historical knowledge regulatory compliance, public managing partner, Global of the Company and providing policy and corporate responsibility.
valuable continuity to the Board.
She also supports the Chairman Bob is a certified public He was former chief executive and the Board in the discharge of accountant and a fellow of the officer of Best Buy Europe, director their responsibilities.
He is a of The Boots Company plc now Kirstine is a lawyer and held member of the American Institute known as The Boots Company a number of legal and senior of Certified Public Accountants and Ltd, managing director and retail management roles within Avivas a member of the American director of Boots the Chemist at legacy companies before leading Academy of Actuaries.
Alliance Boots plc, and director of the Group legal function of Aviva the British Retail Consortium.
External Appointments: formerly held a number of senior Bob is currently a non-executive External Appointments: executive positions at Tesco plc, director of Assurant, Inc US Kirstine is a board member of including chief executive of Tesco specialty insurance, a director the English National Ballet, ENB in Japan.
of Resolution Life Holdings, Inc. Productions Ltd and English and is a trustee emeritus of the External Appointments: National Ballet Enterprises Ltd. board of trustees of the US Scott is currently a non-executive Actuarial Foundation.
director of Santander UK plc.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 73 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 73
