The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Statement Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a Applicable Corporate Governance Codes Directorbefore the end of his or her term by passing an ordinary The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the resolution at ameeting.
As an investment trust, the Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third parties: the Company has no Directors independence employees and the Directors are all non-executive.
Therefore not All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not alltheprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September meeting in September 2015, the Directors reviewed their 2014 are directly applicable to the Company.
The Board has therefore independence and confirmed that all Directors remain wholly considered the principles and recommendations of theCode of independent of Henderson.
Susan Inglis is the Companys Senior Corporate Governance published by the Association of Investment Independent Director.
There were no contracts in existence during or Companies in February 2015 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC at the end of the year in which a Director of the Company is or was Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all Companys business.
theapplicable principles set out in the UK Code as well as setting outadditional principles and recommendations on issues that are of Directors professional development specific relevance to investment companies.
The FRC has confirmed When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction that, by following the AIC Guide, boards of investment companies seminar which is held by Henderson at the request of the Chairman.
should fully meet their obligations inrelation to the UKCode and Directors are also provided on aregular basis with key information paragraph 9.8.
onthe Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
individual training requirements are considered as part of the annual evaluation process which is led bythe Chairman of the Board.
New Zealand Listing It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate Governance may Directors insurance and indemnification differ materially from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs Statement of Compliance which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings The Directors believe that during the year under review they have brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors in complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the UK Code Court.
Noindemnity was given during the year or up to the date of except as noted below: this report.
the role of chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and The Board the need for an internal audit function.
Board composition The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors As the Company delegates to an external investment manager which shall not be less than three nor more than eight: the Board currently has its own internal audit function its day-to-day operations and consists of five non-executive Directors.
The biographies of the has no employees, the Board does not consider these provisions to Directors holding office at the date of this report, which are set out be relevant to the Company and has not reported further in respect onpage 23, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and of these provisions.
professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors.
Directors Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Terms of appointment and retirement During the year seven scheduled Board meetings were held to deal The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board has a appointed must stand for appointment by the shareholders at the formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, Annual General Meeting AGM following appointment, in which are categorised under various headings including strategy, accordance with the Articles of Association.
management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price premium discount, contracts, TheArticles of Association require all Directors to retire at each investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, AGM, in accordance with the corporate governance policy adopted.
corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
All the current Directors, will therefore retire and, being eligible, have stated that they will offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half year results and other public documents and for ensuring that such The contribution and performance of each Director was reviewed by documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Nominations Committee at its meeting in September 2015, which the Companys position and prospects.
The Directors confirm that they recommended to the Board the continuing appointment of each of are satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 October 2015 the Directors.
35 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Statement continued taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the theyear the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the and performance, business model and strategy.
Committees and of individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Company is obliged to engage an external facilitator for Board At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment evaluation every three years.
An external review was first carried out performance and considers financial analyses and other reports by Lintstock Limited in 2013.
The evaluation for the current year was ofanoperational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the also undertaken by Lintstock Limited.
The evaluation concluded that Companys objective and is responsible for setting asset allocation, the Board has a good balance of skills and experience.
investment and gearing limits within which Henderson has discretion to act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of any Board attendance investments in in-house funds managed or advised by Henderson.
The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee Italso has adopted a procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of meetings held during the year under review and the number of their duties, to take independent professional adviceat the expense of meetings attended by each Director.
All Directors attended the AGMin the Company.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, February 2015. all Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
Management The Board has three Committees, the Audit Committee, the Nominations Audit Nominations Engagement Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
The terms of Board Committee Committee Committee reference for these Committees are available on the Companys website Number of meetings 7 3 1 1 www.
com or via the Corporate Secretary.
Richard Killingbeck 7 n a 1 1 1 Audit Committee Julian Chillingworth 5 1 n a 1 The Audit Committee is chaired by Matthew Thorne.
TheReport of the Susan Inglis 7 3 1 1 Audit Committee can be found on pages 38 and 39.
Matthew Thorne 7 3 1 1 David Wild 6 2 n a Nominations Committee Richard Killingbeck, Susan Inglis and Matthew Thorne are the 1 Julian Chillingworth was appointed on 25 February 2015. members of the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of the Board The Directors and Committees of the Board also met during the year acts as Chairman of the Committee but would not chair the to undertake business such as the approval of the Companys results Committee when the Chairmans successor was being considered.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board succession planning, the composition and performance of the Board as a whole Internal Controls and Risk Management and the Board Committees, andthe appointment of new Directors.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, When considering succession planning, the Committee bears in mind evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, gender and diversity SeePrincipal Risk and Uncertainties on page 25 in the Strategic existing on the Board and will recommend when the recruitment of Report.
Theprocess accords with Guidance on Risk Management, additional non-executive Directors is required.
Given the size of the Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting Board it is not considered appropriate to have set targets in relation issued by the FRC in September 2014, and is subject to regular to gender diversity.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional review by the Board.
Directors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn up and each Director is invited to submit nominations and these are considered in The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal accordance with the Boards agreed procedures.
TheCommittee also controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is uses external agencies as and when the requirement to recruit an designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the additional Board member becomes necessary.
Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board each Director has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal seeking re-appointment.
Recommendation is not automatic and will follow controls for the year ended 31 October 2015.
During the course of its a process of evaluation of each Directors performance and consideration review of internal controls the Board has not identified or been advised of the Directors independence.
The Committee also takes into account the of any failings or weaknesses that have been determined as significant.
mix of skills and experience of the current Board members.
In accordance All business risks faced by the Company are recorded in a risk map with the AIC Code any Director serving forlonger than six years would which is reviewed periodically.
be subject to particularly rigorous assessment of his her contribution.
Henderson has established an internal control framework to provide Management Engagement Committee reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the The Management Engagement Committee membership comprises all internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness the members of the Board.
The Committee meets at least annually to ofthe internal controls is assessed by Hendersons compliance and risk review the investment management agreement and to review the department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives a formal report services provided by Henderson.
from Henderson each quarter detailing the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly the responsibility of Performance evaluation Henderson, and which reports the details of any known internal control The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes failures.
Each year the Board receives from Henderson a report on its recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the internal controls which includes a report from Hendersons auditors on Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During the control policies and procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to 36 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Statement continued be taken to embed the system of internal control and risk management suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect into the operation and culture ofthe Company and its key suppliers.
against any potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
The Board confirms that, in the event of any significant failings or Continued Appointment of Henderson weakness identified from the annual review of effectiveness of the The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of companys system of internal control, necessary action would be taken investment management and other services to the Company on an toremedy them.
The principal contents of the agreement with The ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Henderson and the fees payable are contained on page 4. significant risks faced by the Company has been in place throughout The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a the year under review and up to the date of this report.
Systems are in formal review of Henderson is conducted annually.
As part of the annual operation to safeguard the Companys assets and shareholders review in September 2015 the Directors discussed the quality and continuity investments, to maintain proper accounting records and to ensure that of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with particular financial information used within the business, or published, is reliable.
reference to performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they As all of the Companys management functions are delegated to third reviewed other services provided by Henderson to the Company, such parties, and the Board monitors the controls in place with support as accounting, company secretarial and administration services and from Hendersons internal audit department, the Board feels that Hendersons activities in promoting and marketing the Company.
The Board there is currently no need for the Company to have its own internal noted Hendersons resources and experience in managing and administering audit function.
As a result of their annual review it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued appointment of Henderson on the terms Accountability and Relationship with Henderson agreed is in the interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is set out on page 32, and the viability statement on page 26.
Share Capital Please see the Report of the Directors on page 30.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from Henderson and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all Relations with Shareholders the chairmen of the investment trusts and companies managed by Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters which medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders would then be reported to the Board.
is through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys Henderson takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the investments.
Henderson also ensures that all Directors receive, in a daily calculation and publication of the NAV pershare at the London timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial and New Zealand Stock Exchanges and amonthly fact sheet which information.
Representatives of Henderson attend each Board is available on the website.
Henderson also provides information on meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of the Company and Fund Manager videos on the website, via various concern.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the social media channels and through its HGi content platform, more Corporate Secretary through its appointed representative who is details of which are included on page 24. responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to attend complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Committee meetings and participate in the AGM.
Shareholders have the opportunity to are fully recorded through a process that allows any Directors address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board and Henderson Audit Committee and all other Directors at the meeting and the Fund operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Manager will make a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is displayed at the The Corporate Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, is a meeting and each substantial issue is dealt with in a separate resolution.
subsidiary of Henderson with its own reporting lines and audited internal It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Notice of controls.
There are processes and controls in place to ensure that there AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least 20 working is a clear distinction between the two entities particularly when dealing days notice of the meeting.
These documents are also included on the with any conflicts or issues between the Company and Henderson.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the correspondence from shareholders addressed to the Chairman or the meeting, or raise issues or concerns at any time, are invited to do so by Company received at Hendersons offices is forwarded to the Chairman writing to the Chairman at the registered office address given on page 24. of the Company in line with the audited procedure in place.
Any correspondence is also submitted to the next Board meeting for discussion.
General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
Meetings between Henderson, including Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which acts for our Fund Manager, and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Henderson, have arrangements in place by which their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation to By order of the Board financial reporting or other matters.
The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its zero Henderson Secretarial Services Limited toleranceto bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has Corporate Secretary received assurances from the Companys main contractors and 18 January 2016 37
