The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Report of the Audit Committee consideration of the quality and effectiveness of the accounting Composition records and management information maintained on behalf of the The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors except the Company, relying on meetings with and reports from Henderson: Chairman of the Board, and is chaired by Matthew Thorne who is a chartered accountant.
The other Audit Committee members have a consideration of the appropriate level of dividend to be paid by combination of financial, investment and other experience gained theCompany for recommendation to the Board: throughout their careers and the Board is satisfied that at least one of the Committees members has recent and relevant financial consideration of the internal controls in place at Henderson and experience.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent.
BNP as administrator and Hendersons policies in relation to The biographies of the Audit Committee members are shown on cyber risk and business continuity, meeting with representatives of page 23.
Hendersons internal audit and risk departments periodically: consideration of the key risks, risk management systems in place Meetings and the Companys risk map: The Audit Committee met three times during the year under review.
TheCompanys auditor is invited to attend meetings as necessary.
consideration of the Companys anti-bribery policy: Representatives of Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services BNP may also be invited.
consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom: Role and Responsibilities annual consideration of whether there is a need for an internal The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in applying the audit function, in order to make a recommendation to the Board financial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an as described on pages 36 and 37 : appropriate relationship with the Auditor.
The responsibilities are set out in formal terms of reference which are regularly reviewed.
In the consideration of the appointment of the Auditor, their year under review the main duties undertaken were: effectiveness and their performance and remuneration: consideration of the appropriateness of the Companys consideration of the Auditors independence and objectivity and accountingpolicies: the provision of any non-audit services as explained further on page 39 and the reporting of the external Auditor: a review of the half year results and the Annual Report, including the disclosures made therein in relation to internal controls and risk consideration of the whistle blowing policy that Henderson has management, viability statement, going concern and related parties put in place for its staff to raise concerns about possible and consideration of whether the report is fair, balanced and improprieties, including in relation to the Company, in confidence.
understandable and provides the information necessary for The policy includes the necessary arrangements for independent shareholders to assess theCompanys position and performance, investigation and follow up action: business model and strategy in order to make recommendations to the Board.
In assessing whether the report is fair, balanced and consideration of the management fee calculation: and understandable, each Director reviewed the disclosures made, applying their respective knowledge and expertise.
The internal consideration of the allocation of fees and finance costs between controls over financial reporting were also considered together with capital and revenue.
From 1November 2014 all expenses and feedback from the Companys Auditor andthe Corporate Secretary: interest payable including accounting, secretarial and administration fees have been capitalised in accordance with consideration of the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee: note1e on page 48.
Annual Report for the Year Ended 31 October 2015 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 31 October 2015 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and ownership of The Directors have appointed Henderson to perform the valuation of the assets of the Company in the Companys investments accordance with its responsibilities under the AIFMD rules.
As required under the AIFMD rules, Henderson has adopted a written valuation policy, which may be modified from time to time.
Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third party pricing vendors.
Ownership of listed investments is verified by reconciliation to the Custodians records.
Investments that are unlisted or not actively traded are valued using a variety of techniques to determine their fair value: all such valuations are reviewed and approved by the Directors.
38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Report of the Audit Committee continued Significant issue How the issue was addressed Recognition of income Income received has been accounted for in line with the Companys accounting policies asset out on page 48 and was reviewed by the Committee at each meeting.
Compliance with Section 1158 of The Committee has considered regularly the controls in place to ensure that the regulations the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for ensuring investment trust status are observed at all times, receiving supporting documentation from Henderson and BNP.
Maintaining internal controls The Committee has received regular reports on internal controls from BNP and Henderson and itsdelegates and has had access to the relevant personnel of Henderson who have a responsibility for risk management and internal audit.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended Policy on Non-Audit Services 31 October 2015, taken as a whole, isfair, balanced and The provision of non-audit services by the Companys Auditor is understandable and provides the information necessary for considered and approved by the Audit Committee on a case by case shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, basis.
The policy set by the Audit Committee, which is kept under business model and strategy.
review, ensures that consideration is given to the following factors when considering the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor: Audit Tendering As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, the the level of non-audit fees paid to the audit firm in relation to the Company will in future be subject to the mandatory auditor rotation statutory audit fee: requirements of the European Union.
Subject to the detailed implementation of the European requirements in the UK, this is likely whether the audit firm is the most suitable supplier of non-audit to mean that the Company will put the external audit out to tender at services: least every ten years, and change auditor at least every twenty years.
The Committee will, however, continue to consider annually the need the impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity and what to go to tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
The safeguards can be put in place to eliminate or reduce any threat in Committee last tendered the audit in 2014 which resulted in the this regard: and audit being transferred to Grant Thornton UK LLP.
the cost-eff ectiveness of the services.
External Audit, Review and Auditor Reappointment The Board has determined that the Auditor will not be considered for The Committee discusses the audit process with the Auditor the provision of services related to accounting and preparation of the without representatives of Henderson present and considers the financial statements, internal audit and custody.
effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
This is the second year Grant Thornton UK LLP have audited the Companys Annual Report following a tender process conducted in 2014.
TheAudit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness ofthe audit provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The Committee issatisfied that the Auditor is independent of the Company.
Matthew Thorne TheAuditor is required to rotate partners every five years and Audit Committee Chairman thisisthe second year that the current partner has been in place.
18 January 2016 Grant Thornton UK LLP have indicated their willingness tocontinue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to theCompany, and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration, willbe proposed at the AGM.
Fees paid or payable to the Auditor are detailed in note 6 onpage51.
