com Annual report 2015 73 Statement of corporate governance Compliance with code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group have complied with the provisions set out in the 2014 version of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and have explained the independence of Rolf Tolle in the board review section below.
The board considers that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The companys auditors have reviewed the companys compliance to the extent required by the UK listing rules for review by auditors of UK listed companies.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the main principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied by the group.
The board The board consists of a non-executive chairman, Dennis Holt, together with five independent non-executive directors, of whom George Blunden is the senior independent non-executive director, and five executive directors, of whom Andrew Horton is chief executive.
The non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The board extended the appointments of two directors who would be serving terms in excess of six years from the 2016 AGM.
George Blunden continues to bring strong challenge to the board and its committees and his appointment has been extended for a further three years, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
The nomination committee carried out a rigorous assessment of George Blundens continuing independence, taking into account the length of his tenure on the boards of both Beazley plc and Beazley Furlonge Ltd, and concluded that he remained independent.
Vincent Sheridan joined the board in 2009, and his appointment has been extended for a further one year term to ensure continuity across its board and committees.
Rolf Tolle has informed the board that he will not be seeking reelection at the forthcoming AGM.
The following paragraph explains the reasons for the boards assessment of Rolf Tolles independence for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Rolf Tolle was appointed as a non-executive director in December 2010.
With his considerable market experience, Rolf has performed a valuable role in bringing challenge to the boardroom based on his in depth understanding of the key drivers and challenges faced by the group.
Rolf Tolles son, Christian Tolle, joined the company in 2009, and is head of life, accident and health.
Christian reports to the chief underwriting officer and does not currently sit on the executive committee.
The board values the independence of its non-executive directors and considered carefully the appointment of Rolf Tolle, acknowledging that his relationship with his son could call his independence into question.
The board believes that the position that his son holds within Beazley does not impact Rolfs independence of judgement.
The board meets the independence criteria for Rolf Tolle by ensuring that when life, accident & health is a specific board matter Rolf Tolle excuses himself from the discussion and any board or committee decision.
This occurs less than 5% of the time set aside for board meetings.
The board believes that this practice is consistent with the spirit of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the principle of independence.
The chairman oversees this potential conflict of interest and ensures that the matter is revisited annually as part of the board effectiveness review.
Biographies of current board members appear in the board of directors section of this report.
The biographies indicate the high level and wide range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well defined operational and management structure is in place and the roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly defined.
com 74 Statement of corporate governance continued The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes: inter alia, strategic matters: statutory matters intended to generate and preserve value over the longer term: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, officers and auditors: and appointments of committees and setting of their terms of reference.
It is responsible for: the review of group performance against budgets: approving material contracts: determining authority levels within which management is required to operate: reviewing the groups annual forecasts: and approval of the groups corporate business plans, including capital adequacy and the Own Risk Solvency Assessment.
The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in pursuing its strategic objectives.
To this end, the board is responsible for the capital strategy, including the groups Solvency II internal model which received regulatory approval in December 2015.
The board has also appointed an executive committee with delegated responsibility for particular matters such as considering the business plan, underwriting, risk and regulations including the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, investments and operations.
There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, on the basis that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have access to an electronic information repository to support their activities.
During 2015 the board continued to support the maintenance and development of Beazleys information security programme to address changing and emerging cyber security threats.
All directors allocate sufficient time to the company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The terms and conditions of appointment for all the non-executive directors set out the expected time commitment and they agree that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The nomination committee actively reviews the activities and time commitments of members and any changes to other significant commitments of the chairman and the non-executive directors would be reported to the board as they arose.
The composition of, and appointments to, the board of both executive and non-executive directors are considered by the nomination committee.
The recommendations of the nomination committee are ultimately made to the full board, which considers them before any change is made.
All directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the board and the chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each director their training needs to ensure that they continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the company, as required to fulfil their role both on the board and on any board committee of which they are a member.
The remuneration committee considers any remuneration package of executive directors before it is offered to a potential appointee.
Full details of directors remuneration and a statement of the companys remuneration policy are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Meetings with non-executive directors The chairman holds meetings as required with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
Board performance evaluation Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board is required to undertake formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, and for this to be externally facilitated every three years.
The board confirms that the recommendations from the 2014 self-assessment have been implemented.
In 2015 an assessment of the effectiveness of the board and its committees was externally facilitated by Deloitte LLP.
The board considered the results of the assessment and confirmed that there were no significant matters to be addressed.
Further details of the review are included in the nomination committee report.
com Annual report 2015 75 Individual attendance by directors at regular meetings of the board and of committees In addition to the five regular board meetings, there were further meetings to consider the Q3 2015 interim statement and director changes.
Attendance at the meetings was high.
All the directors also attend an annual strategy day.
The remuneration, nomination, and audit and risk committees had additional ad hoc meetings with full attendance.
Attendance at the regular board and committee meetings is set out in the table below: Audit and risk Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee No.
Director meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended George P Blunden 5 5 6 6 5 5 5 5 Martin L Bride 5 5 Adrian P Cox 5 5 Angela D Crawford-Ingle 5 5 6 6 Dennis Holt 5 5 2 2 5 5 D Andrew Horton 5 5 Sir J Andrew Likierman 4 4 3 3 Padraic J OConnor 5 5 5 5 Neil P Maidment 5 5 Vincent J Sheridan 5 4 6 5 Kenneth P Sroka 5 5 5 5 5 5 Rolf A W Tolle 5 5 6 6 Clive A Washbourn 5 5 Kenneth Sroka resigned from the board effective 4 December 2015.
On 25 March 2015 Sir Andrew Likierman was appointed to the board and to the remuneration committee on 7 May 2015.
On 4 December 2015 he was appointed to the nomination committee.
Dennis Holt resigned from the remuneration committee on 7 May 2015.
Where a director joined or stood down from the board or board committee during the year only the number of meetings following appointment or before standing down are shown.
Vincent Sheridans absence from the board meeting and audit and risk committee meeting on 3 December 2015 was due to illness.
Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained in the statement of directors responsibilities and the independent auditors report, together with the statement of the directors on going concern in the directors report.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant compliance issues and risks facing the group.
All significant known risks are captured in the Beazley risk register and monitored on a monthly basis.
The risk register and the related internal capital assessment process are subject to review, challenge and approval by the board.
The board agreed the 2015 risk appetite for the group at the end of 2014 and, throughout 2015, the board has considered and acted upon the information presented to it in order to make risk based decisions against the 2015 risk appetite.
Key components of the risk management framework include monthly control self assessments and six monthly risk assessments, with ad hoc risk assessments being conducted when required.
These matters have been considered by the executive risk and regulatory committee each month and the audit and risk committee and board quarterly.
In addition, the board has considered the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report in the past year.
This risk management framework has provided the board with an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing the risks to the company, and accords with the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting.
The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within the risk appetite set by the board.
The key procedures that the board has established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with Beazley Annual report 2015 www.
com 76 Statement of corporate governance continued a group of this size include: day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors: review and analysis by the various group committees of standard monthly, quarterly and periodic reporting, as prescribed by the board: review of financial, operational and assurance reports from management: and review of any significant issues arising from internal and external audits.
The board therefore confirms that it has, during 2015, reviewed the effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and continue to operate up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Further information on the role of the audit and risk committee is set out on page 77 and further information on risk management at Beazley is set out in the risk management report.
Shareholder communication The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The annual report and accounts and the interim report are available from www.
com and, where elected or on request, will be mailed to shareholders and to stakeholders who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website, as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, as well as general presentations, attended by executive directors, after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specific comments from institutional investors, to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
Board committees The group has established properly constituted audit and risk, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
There are terms of reference for each committee and details of their main responsibilities and activities in 2015 are set out on pages 77 to 82.
com Annual report 2015 77 Audit and risk committee Responsibilities of the committee The committees main audit-related responsibilities are to, inter alia: monitor the integrity of the companys financial statements and any other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance: review the annual report before submission to and approval by, the board, and before clearance by the external auditors.
This covers critical accounting policies, significant financial reporting judgements, the going concern assumption, compliance with accounting standards and other requirements under applicable law, regulations and governance codes applicable to the financial statements.
In the past year, the committee has also reviewed the viability statement prepared by the group along with the analysis and Angela Crawford-Ingle evidence supporting this statement: review the companys internal financial controls and the companys internal control and risk management systems: approve the appointment or termination of the appointment The board has delegated oversight of audit of the head of internal audit and monitor and review the andrisk matters to the audit and risk committee effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: which currently comprises Angela Crawford-Ingle review the arrangements by which employees of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible committee chairman, Vincent Sheridan, improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other George Blunden and Rolf Tolle.
areas: and recommend to the board of directors the appointment, Since my appointment to the committee in 2013, I have reappointment and termination of external auditors and worked collaboratively with the committee members, approve their remuneration and terms of engagement.
management and both internal and external assurance providers to make an effective assessment of the way in which The committees main risk-related responsibilities are to, governance operates, risks are assessed and managed and inter alia: financial reporting or control matters are dealt with.
The audit advise the board on the companys risk management committee plays an integral role in the monitoring, review and framework, which includes the risk management objectives, challenge of the controls, processes and conduct of the groups risk appetite, risk culture and assignment of risk management and external auditor.
All committee members are management responsibilities: independent non-executives and, in the opinion of the board, review risk reports and management information have recent and relevant financial experience to carry out this to enable a clear understanding of the key risks and role effectively.
controls in the business: review any breaches of risk appetite and the adequacy The primary role of the audit and risk committee in relation of proposed action: to financial reporting is to monitor the integrity of the financial review the identification of future risks, including considering statements of the group and any formal announcements, such emerging trends and future risk strategy: as our interim statement released in July 2015, relating to the review the remit of the risk management function and ensure groups financial performance and to review significant financial it has adequate resources and appropriate access to reporting judgements.
In light of the changes to the UK information to enable it to perform its function effectively: Corporate Governance Code in 2014, the committee has and continued to approach its review of the annual report as a provide oversight of the output of the Beazley plc capital whole with focus on behalf of the board on considering the model.
concept of fair, balanced and understandable.
We have challenged ourselves to ensure the key messages about the Full details of the terms of reference of the committee are performance of the business are delivered in a manner available at www.
consistent with our own understanding and interpretation of the information we receive.
Set out in this section are the detailed responsibilities of the committee, as well as the specific considerations that have been on our agenda for 2015.
com 78 Statement of corporate governance continued The principal activities undertaken by the committee in b Written premium estimates discharging its responsibilities in 2015 are described below.
Written premiums for business incepting in 2015 are based on underwriting estimates on a risk by risk basis and actuarial Significant financial statement reporting issues for the premium projections based on signed premium information.
In 2015 year addition actuarial projections are used to validate the aggregate The significant financial statement reporting issues, along risk by risk estimations provided by our underwriters.
This with the significant matters and accounting judgements that actuarial review takes place as part of the quarterly peer review the committee considered during the year under review, are process.
The audit committee receives summarised reporting from the a Valuation of insurance liabilities group actuary in respect of these premium projections and As further explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the related monitoring activity.
In this regard, the audit committee groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions, including those to is satisfied that the written premiums recognised in the financial cover claims which have been incurred but not reported IBNR statements are materially correct.
to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
2015 has seen a number of individual risk losses but has otherwise been a relatively c Valuation of financial assets at fair value benign year.
Our consideration of catastrophe losses has As more fully explained in note 16, the total carrying therefore been restricted to developments in relation to the amount of financial assets at fair value investments more significant catastrophes of previous years.
The audit committee receives regular reports from both the The board is responsible for setting the investment strategy, internal group actuary and the external audit team, as the defining the risk appetite and overseeing the internal and output of independent projections are reviewed at key reporting outsourced providers via the chief investment officer CIO.
In the latter part of the year, the group actuary has The committee are aware of the new holdings in illiquid credit reported both informally and formally on the results of the assets entered into in the latter part of 2014, and remain Q3 peer review process, which the committee considers to satisfied that there is no increased level of valuation risk at be a key control as it provides a level of informed independent this time.
The committee receives reporting from the CIO via challenge for the reserve position.
To support the year end view, the finance director and it has reported for 2015 that the the committee has received a detailed paper in support of the investment portfolio is in line with the board approved level of margin held within technical reserves in the groups risk appetite and that carrying values of the portfolio as at statement of financial position, which formed the basis for a 31 December 2015 are appropriate.
The committee has robust discussion.
Management confirmed that they remain monitored the change in the investment management satisfied that the outstanding claims reserves included in the arrangements through regular discussion with management, financial statements provide an appropriate margin over reviews undertaken by internal audit and has ensured that projected ultimate claims costs to allow for the risks and the external audit approach has responded to this change.
uncertainties within the portfolio, and none of the committees other enquiries identified any errors or inconsistencies that The auditor explained the results of their work on financial were material in the context of the financial statements as a instruments, including testing of their existence and valuation.
On the basis of their audit work, no misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole The external auditor have also used the groups data to were identified.
re-project the reserves using their own methodologies and the comparison presented to the committee has provided d Recoverability of insurance receivables an additional level of challenge to the result.
On the basis As detailed in note 18, the value of insurance receivables at of their audit work, the auditor reported no inconsistencies 31 December 2015 is $732.7m.
Aged debt analysis provided or misstatements that were material in the context of the by the company was enhanced during 2015 and is reviewed as financial statements as a whole.
part of the audit process at key reporting periods.
The analysis reviewed in 2015 did not identify any material instances of On the basis of the information provided by the group actuary default in relation to our insurance debtors.
throughout the year and at the year end, the consistent application on Beazleys reserving philosophy, and the review On this basis, the committee is satisfied that the insurance work carried out by our external auditor, the committee is receivables of $732.7m are materially correct and that no satisfied that the reserves held on the group statement of adjustment is required to this balance at 31 December 2015. financial position at 31 December 2015 are reasonable.
com Annual report 2015 79 Assessing the effectiveness of the external auditor e Recoverability of reinsurance assets The committee places great emphasis on ensuring there are The committee received confirmation from management that high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit the majority of Beazleys reinsurance receivables are due from process.
Audit quality is assessed throughout the year, with highly rated institutions.
Based on previous experience, the a focus on strong audit governance and the quality of the team.
committee has not noted any instances where poor quality The effectiveness of the audit is assessed through discussion reinsurers have led to a material financial loss and is throughout the year, taking into account considerations comfortable with the monitoring processes management such as: have described and put in place to ensure this continues.
reviewing the quality and scope of the audit planning and The external auditor has reported on the output of their work its responsiveness to changes in the business: over assessing the recoverability of the groups reinsurance monitoring of the auditors independence: assets.
The committee is comfortable that the judgements considering the level of challenge evidenced in discussions applied by management in making provision for bad debts and reporting: and is appropriate.
discussing the output of the FRCs Audit Quality Review with our auditors.
Other updates During 2015, in addition to the financial reporting matters These considerations are taken to account by the committee mentioned above the following items were key topics of when determining whether to reappoint the external auditor.
discussion for the committee: Appointment of the external auditor is conducted through oversight of the reporting and control processes and a tendering process.
The current firms tenure commenced procedures relating to the increased Solvency II reporting in 2002. requirements: updates on the groups Solvency II internal model application, Non-audit services which resulted in the approval of the internal model in The audit and risk committees responsibility to monitor and December 2015: review the objectivity and independence of the external auditor overview of key reporting and regulatory updates, including is supported by a policy that we have developed in relation updates on accounting standards, changes in tax legislation, to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
tax uncertainties and changes in regulatory requirements: The objective is to ensure that the provision of such services potential enhancements to key reconciliation and review does not impair the external auditors objectivity.
The policy procedures, in particular in relation to technical balances specifically disallows certain activities from being provided by due to from internal coverholders: and the auditors, such as bookkeeping and accounting services, the consolidation of emerging risks and the processes internal actuarial services and executive remuneration services.
and controls in place to mitigate these risks.
The policy requires pre-approval for all other material services such as due diligence assistance, tax services and advice Internal audit on accounting and audit matters.
The committee reviews the The Beazley plc board has delegated oversight of the groups terms of such proposed services to ensure they have been internal audit function and its work to the audit and risk robustly justified.
committee: the function reports directly to the committee.
The committees terms of reference include approving the The committee receives a report from the external auditors appointment or termination of appointment, of the head of twice a year setting out all non-audit services undertaken, so internal audit and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness that it can monitor the types of services being provided, and of the companys internal audit function.
In reviewing the the fees incurred for that work.
The aim is to limit the total effectiveness of the function the audit and risk committee spend on non-audit services to a maximum of the annual audit remained satisfied that the internal audit function had fee, unless it is deemed that not doing so is in the shareholders sufficient resources during the year to undertake its duties.
interest from an efficiency and effectiveness point of view.
During 2015, the committee: The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under considered and appointed a new head of internal audit: review is disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements.
considered the results of all internal audit reports and None of the non-audit services provided are considered by the monitored the progress of the business in addressing audit and risk committee to affect the auditors independence the findings of internal audit: or objectivity.
m onitored the implementation of the 2015 internal audit plan and approved the 2016 internal audit plan: reviewed and approved the internal audit charter: o versaw the implementation of recommendations from the external quality assessment undertaken in 2014: and monitored ongoing amendments to the internal audit functions activities in light of emerging best practice in the financial sector.
com 80 Statement of corporate governance continued Risk management The Beazley plc board has delegated oversight of the risk management framework to the audit and risk committee.
To assist the board, the committee, supported by the risk committees of the subsidiary boards, receives and reviews reports from the risk management function focusing on the following areas: risk appetite: The committee has monitored the actual risk profile against risk appetite throughout 2015 and can confirm that Beazley plc has been operating within risk appetite.
The committee has also reviewed the proposed 2016 risk appetite and commended it to the Beazley plc board for approval: risk assessment: The committee has performed a review of the groups risk profile to ensure it covers the complete universe of risk and that all major underlying risks are visible and are being monitored: risk profiles: The committee and the risk committees of the subsidiary boards have reviewed Beazleys risk profiles, which are focused risk assessments of specific topics.
In 2015, the committee received a review of the underwriting standards to ensure that they remained robust in soft market conditions.
The committee also received an update on the annual cyber review, focussing this year on how exposure could aggregate from a single event.
There were also a number of other operational risk profiles presented which supported the committees oversight of the ongoing business processes: emerging risk: The committee supported the identification of strategic and emerging risks which were discussed at the board meeting in May and have been subsequently monitored and reported in the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA : oversight of the control environment: The committee has received a quarterly consolidated assurance report which provides commentary on the status of the control environment with perspective from the business, risk management, compliance and internal audit.
It also includes entries from the risk incident log: reverse stress testing: The committee has received the results of the reverse stress testing exercise, which explores what would have to happen for the group to be unviable and has been able to provide assurance to the board that this work has been performed with the appropriate level of depth and expertise: oversight of the internal model: The committee and the risk committees of the subsidiary boards have reviewed regular reports associated with the internal model.
These have included a standing report on internal model output, and a validation report featuring both internal and independent validation and themed reviews, for example, on the approach used to aggregate risk.
These assessments have supported the boards use of the internal model: and quarterly ORSA: The committee has received a quarterly ORSA report and has reviewed it as part of the quality assurance process before commending it to the board.
com Annual report 2015 81 Remuneration committee Responsibilities of the committee The committees main responsibilities are to, inter alia: set the remuneration policy for the group for approval at the annual general meeting.
The objective of such policy shall be to ensure that members of the executive management of the company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the company: recommend and where appropriate approve targets for performance related pay schemes and seek shareholder approval for any long term incentive arrangements: recommend and approve the remuneration of the chairman of the company: recommend the remuneration of the chief executive, the Padraic OConnor executive directors, the direct reports to the chief executive, the company secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
No director or manager shall be involved in any decisions Currently the membership of the remuneration as to his or her own remuneration: committee comprises Padraic OConnor obtain reliable, up-to-date information about remuneration chairman, George Blunden and in other companies: and appoint and review the performance of remuneration Sir Andrew Likierman.
committee consultants, currently Deloitte LLP.
Key activities in 2015 During 2015 the committee: re viewed the key aspects of the remuneration policy, and oversaw its implementation and application: satisfied itself that the current remuneration structure is appropriate to attract and retain talented people: c onsidered the chief risk officers report on the remuneration policy, which confirmed that the remuneration arrangements are consistent with, and promote, effective risk management throughout the organisation through the consideration of remuneration design, performance of the control environment, profit related pay targets, calculation of the bonus pool, and share plan awards: ensured incentives continued to be appropriate and to align company and shareholders: approved the grant of share awards under the groups deferred, retention and LTIP plans: considered the salary and bonus awards for 2015 for executive directors, heads of control functions, material risk takers and other officers: reviewed remuneration policies in light of emerging requirements for Solvency II: approved the chairmans fees: and reviewed the executive director employment contracts.
Further information on the work of the remuneration committee is set out in the directors remuneration report.
com 82 Statement of corporate governance continued Nomination committee We have a defined policy and strategy that will enable us to: nurture diverse individuals across all areas of the business and encourage them to grow into senior positions with our organisation: develop plans on how to best support diversity in a way that is both locally relevant and globally impactful: s upport, mentor and encourage individuals from diverse backgrounds to grow and develop within Beazley: h ave leadership and sponsorship of our vision at the most senior level of our organisation: re gularly review our employment policies and practices.
We expect our people to work with us to further enhance our diversity objectives: and e nsure all employees receive equality of opportunity in recruitment, training, development, promotion Dennis Holt and remuneration.
The committee has agreed the establishment of goals for gender diversity for both the board and the broader organisation.
The nomination committee is chaired The board approved goals for gender diversity for the Beazley byDennisHolt and currently comprises plc board of two female members by AGM 2016, and a third GeorgeBlunden and Sir Andrew Likierman.
The initial goal has been achieved through the recent appointment of Catherine Woods.
Responsibilities of the committee The committee reviewed progress against the groups 2020 The committees main responsibilities are to, inter alia: goals for increasing diversity across the wider organisation regularly review the structure, size and composition including through a series of initiatives looking at recruitment, the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required of development and succession.
the board compared to its current and projected position: give full consideration to succession planning for executive Key activities in 2015 and non-executive directors and in particular for the key The 2015 board review was overseen by the committee and roles of chairman and chief executive, senior executives was facilitated by Deloitte LLP.
No material matters were and any other member of the senior management that identified and the committee will oversee the implementation of it is relevant to consider: an action plan to strengthen the boards overall effectiveness in ensure the directors have the required skills and competence: 2016.
Tasks which the committee carried out in 2015 were to: review annually the time required from non-executive directors: search for additional non-executive directors which resulted review the results of the board performance evaluation in the nomination committees recommendation that process that relate to the composition and skills and Sir Andrew Likierman and Catherine Woods be appointed competencies of the board and ensure an appropriate to the board.
The appointments to the board were made response to development needs: on merit and against objective criteria.
The nomination recommend to the board appointments to the role of senior committee engaged the specialist search firm Zygos to independent director and chairman as well as membership support the search for directors.
Zygos is wholly independent of board committees: and of the company and of the group: recommend, if appropriate, all directors for re-election review the performance of management by inviting all by shareholders under the annual re-election provisions non-executive directors to attend a nomination committee of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
meeting to review the performance of the executive management team: Policy on gender, diversity and inclusion consider the board and committee succession plans: We believe having a diverse and inclusive workplace will assess the collective skills and competency of the board support our vision for growth and outperforming the market.
and consider the proposed reappointment of all directors, We continually review our approach to diversity and our aim is ensuring that the proposed reappointment of two directors to have nurtured diverse employees across the business who for a term beyond six years was robustly reviewed and are given the tools and opportunities to progress their career challenged: within Beazley.
We believe employing individuals with wider ensure that director development plans were implemented perspectives and from a broader skill base will lead to a more and that the board collectively received relevant training: and dynamic, innovative, responsive organisation in touch with ensure board members were able to allocate sufficient time changes and developments in our business environment.
to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
