Governance Risk Committee Report Key purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to the oversight of risk and to provide advice in relation to current and potential future risk exposures.
This includes reviewing the Groups risk appetite and risk profile and assessing the effectiveness of the risk management framework.
The key responsibilities of the Risk Committee are to: support the Board to ensure that risk appetite and exposure are addressed as part of strategy: Kim Bradley oversee the risk management infrastructure and process and Chairman of the its effectiveness: Risk Committee support the Board in monitoring risk exposure and the implementation of our strategy to address risk: oversee, support and evaluate the risk management roles of our senior management risk team: encourage and ensure open and broad discussion on perceived risk concerns and responsive efforts to mitigate Dear Shareholders, when necessary: and assess the adequacy and quality of the risk management I am pleased to present the Groups Risk Committee Report.
function in conjunction with the Audit Committee and the As our Group continues to grow, our Risk Committee and the effectiveness of risk reporting within the Group.
Group leadership recognise that the risks facing the Group need to be supported by an increasingly robust and dynamic The principal risk categories overseen by the Risk Committee system of risk management and internal controls.
include reputational, geopolitical, macro-economic and market, liquidity and capital, credit and certain operational risks other than As mentioned in the Accountability section on page 99, the those overseen by the Audit Committee within the Group.
As to Board determined in early 2014 that having separate Audit credit risk, our focus is principally on forward-looking matters.
and Risk Committees, each with specific Terms of Reference, would provide additional scope and breadth necessary to The Risk Committees full Terms of Reference are available on our better measure and address risk across the Group.
com uploads pages  continued to work closely with the Audit Committee.
Some topics are considered by both Committees from their different perspectives, which we believe enhances our Composition of the Risk Committee and meetings governance and risk oversight.
Two of our Risk Committee The composition of the Risk Committee and the members members are also members of the Audit Committee.
attendance during the year is listed on page 95.
Our Risk Committee is solely comprised of Independent Non-Executive In 2015, our focus followed our mandate.
Board in setting the Groups risk appetite and exposure in order for the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and in The biographies of the members of the Risk Committee are set out making any necessary modifications to the strategy given on pages 86 and 89. changing economic conditions and risk environment.
We also monitored the Groups risk exposure and actions to address Our meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the Board, risk, which included oversight and support of our senior the Chairman of the Audit Committee, BGEO and JSC BGEO management risk team.
We recognise that risk evolves, and Group CEO, Bank CEO, JSC BGEO Group and Bank CFO, Chief since its formation, the Committee has sought to create a Risk Officer and occasionally by our head of Internal Audit and our dynamic environment whereby Committee members, other external auditor.
From time to time, other members of Board members and senior management are encouraged to management are invited to attend meetings in order to provide a escalate any concerns they may have and propose issues for deeper level of insight into key issues and developments.
As you will read in the following pages, a key risk addition, non-Committee Board members are also invited to addressed directly by our Committee during the year was the attend.
decline in the value of the Lari and its effect on our loan book.
At each meeting, the Risk Committee receives detailed reporting Together with the Audit Committee, we also devoted time which provides an analysis of: the Groups overall risk profile using ensuring that the new requirements introduced by the Code in both quantitative models and risk analytics, key risk exposures respect of risk management and internal controls were met by and management actions, performance against risk appetite, the the Group and reviewed the processes supporting the emerging and potential risks the Group may face, the drivers of assessment of the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity risk throughout the Group as well as analyses of down-side stress which underlie the new viability statement.
The underlying assumptions, methodology applied and results of such stress testing are challenged by the Our Committee is comprised of five Independent Risk Committee.
In 2014, we recommended changes to the Non-Executive Directors.
I invite you to read more about our content of reporting by management and also requested additional work in the following report.
stress scenarios and key assumptions, which were all implemented in early 2015.
Kim Bradley Chairman of the Risk Committee 7 April 2016 104 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information In 2014, the Committee recommended changes to the content of Meetings of the Risk Committee take place prior to the Board reporting by management, management responsibilities and meeting in order for the Risk Committee to report its activities and reporting lines to the Committee, all of which were adopted.
In matters of particular relevance to the Board.
2015, we reviewed these changes and were pleased with the outcomes.
Risk Committee activities during 2015 In addition to our regular responsibilities, we spent time focusing We have also assisted in formulating the Group viability statement on the evaluation of the design, completeness and effectiveness of in conjunction with the Audit Committee and management.
the risk management framework focusing on the requirements of the Code, the FRC guidance in respect of risk management and The viability statement can be found on page 47. the needs of our businesses.
As mentioned in last years Annual Report, our priorities in 2015 included close monitoring of the US Dollar-denominated loan book We also carefully reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties covered by Lari income: the integration of PrivatBank: and the disclosure and other relevant risk management disclosures for implementation of investment business strategy.
We monitored inclusion in this Annual Report.
each of these risks very closely throughout the year with the rest of the Board and management.
We also ensured that the Audit The Groups principal risks and uncertainties and a discussion Committee assessed operational risk associated with IT and of how we mitigate these risks and uncertainties are outlined cyber-security in accordance with our agreed division of on pages 48 to 51. responsibilities.
Committee effectiveness review In 2015, the Group saw an increase in NPLs in respect of US In 2014, due to the Risk Committees recent formation, we decided Dollar-denominated loans covered by Lari income as a result of to assess our own effectiveness internally.
However, in 2015, an slower economic growth, the devaluation of the Lari and the externally facilitated review of the Risk Committee was performed PrivatBank acquisition.
We monitored this very closely.
The evaluation principally addressed the composition retail loan book especially mortgage loan, we discussed with of the Risk Committee, the division of responsibilities between the management actions that might be taken to reduce our risk, Risk and Audit Committees, the alignment of risk appetite with including the offering of loan restructuring options to certain retail Group strategy, the oversight of the risk management customers, and followed closely the evolution of NPLs.
In the end, infrastructure and process and the effectiveness of the risk very few customers chose to restructure their loans and default management function.
The evaluation concluded that the rates were not materially affected, principally due to relatively low Committee operates and performs effectively.
loan to value ratios in our mortgage book, retail customers preference to save in US Dollars and the increase in US Dollar Our priorities for 2016 include ensuring that both the reduction of foreign remittances.
our corporate loan book exposure and operational risks in our investment business are monitored and executed in keeping with Despite approximately 85% of our corporate loan book being our Group strategy.
We will also continue to focus on loan quality denominated in US Dollars, more than 50% of customers with US in relation to the US Dollar-denominated loan book.
Dollar loans have income in US Dollars.
We saw that the majority of our corporate customers were able to continue servicing their loans due to increased oil prices and stable inflation rates, despite the devaluation in the Lari.
We closely monitored NPL levels and managements actions to assure adequate coverage of our loan loss exposure, including the increase in our NPL coverage ratio during the year, from 67.5% as of 31 December 2014 to 83.4% as of 31 December 2015.
In the second half of 2015, we discussed and agreed with management a plan to decrease our corporate lending as well as reduce the concentration of our top 10 corporate banking clients as part of our strategy to rebalance our loan book in favour of lower-risk retail loans.
We closely followed managements work on the integration of PrivatBank and were pleased that it was executed so smoothly five months ahead of schedule and at a cost that was significantly less than expected.
We also monitored the development of NPLs in the PrivatBank portfolio and were satisfied that increasing NPLs and provisions did not materially impact the important overall benefits of the acquisition.
We monitored execution risk associated with the GHG IPO on the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange and were pleased that, in the face of turbulent market conditions, the transaction was successfully completed in November 2015, raising gross proceeds of approximately US$ 100 million, which is critical to GHGs development plans.
For the real estate business, we monitored completion risk and pre-sales to ensure that projects were proceeding as planned.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 105
