Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Leadership and Effectiveness Our governance structure Board of Directors The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
It sets the Groups core values and strategy and oversees its implementation by management.
It ensures that there is a strong risk management and internal control framework in place that allows risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
It provides leadership and direction and is responsible for the corporate governance and financial performance of the Group.
The Board is comprised of nine Directors, eight of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of the individual Directors and their biographies are set out on pages 86 to 89.
Audit Committee Risk Committee Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee It assists the Board in It assists the Board in It assists the Board to It reviews and recommends relation to the oversight relation to the oversight of ensure that the Board to the Board the executive of the Groups financial risk.
It reviews the Groups continues to have the right remuneration policy to and reporting processes.
risk appetite in line with balance of skills, experience, ensure that remuneration It monitors the integrity of strategy, monitors risk independence and Group is designed to promote the financial statements exposure and the risk knowledge necessary to the long-term success of and supervises both the management infrastructure, discharge its responsibilities BGEO.
It determines the internal and external audit oversees the implementation in accordance with the remuneration packages of processes, reporting back of strategy to address risk, highest standards of the Executive Directors, to the Board.
It reviews and in conjunction with the governance, the strategic Chairman and executive the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, assesses direction of the Group and management.
policies, procedures and the effectiveness of the risk the diversity aspirations systems in place related to, management and internal of the Board.
It is also among other operational control framework.
responsible for both Director risks, compliance, IT and and executive management IS including cyber-security succession planning.
and works closely with the Risk Committee in connection with assessing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.
See pages 100 to See pages 104 to See pages 97 to 98 See pages 107 to 123 103 for the Audit 105 for the Risk for the Nomination for the Remuneration Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 93 Governance Leadership and Effectiveness continued The role of the Board There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that Our principal duty, collectively, is to promote the long-term all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the success of the Group by directing management in creating and appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle, although delivering sustainable shareholder value.
We do this by setting the this is flexible to enable pressing matters, when they arise, to be Groups core values and strategy and overseeing its dealt with in a timely manner.
We also set the Groups key policies and review management and financial performance.
The The Chairman and BGEO CEO seek input from the Non-Executive framework of controls and procedures that we have established Directors ahead of each Board meeting in order to ensure that any allow risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
While our particular matters raised by Non-Executive Directors are on the ultimate focus is long-term growth, the Group also needs to deliver agenda to be discussed at the meeting.
In addition, the Chairman on short-term objectives and we seek to ensure that management meets with the CEO after each meeting to agree the actions to be strikes the right balance between the two.
followed up and to discuss how effective the meeting was.
We are mindful of our wider obligations and consider the impact The Chairman and CEO also maintain frequent contact in person our decisions will have on the Groups various stakeholders, such or otherwise with each other and the other Board members as our employees, our shareholders, our customers and clients, throughout the year outside of the formal meetings.
the environment and our community as a whole.
Board Committees In order to ensure that we meet our responsibilities, specific To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure key decisions have been reserved for approval by the Board.
there is independent oversight of financial, audit, internal control A full formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for and risk issues, review of remuneration as well as oversight and the Board can be found on our website, at review of Board and executive succession planning, the Board has http: bgeo.
com page id 67  certain responsibilities to Board Committees.
In 2015, the Board had four Committees, comprised solely of Clearly defined roles of the Chairman, CEO and Independent Non-Executive Directors: the Nomination Committee, Non-Executive Directors the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Remuneration Each of the Chairman, CEO and Non-Executive Directors Committee.
Each Board Committee has agreed Terms of has clearly defined roles within our Board structure.
Reference, which are approved by each Committee and the Board A description of these roles can be found on our website, and reviewed annually.
Each Committees Terms of Reference can at http: bgeo.
be found on our website at http: bgeo.
Operation of the Board We schedule in person Board meetings at least four times a year The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on in Georgia, for a period of two to three days each time.
We also the matters discussed at Board Committee meetings.
You will find hold meetings at our London offices, with Directors either later in this section reports from the Chairman of each Board attending in person or via teleconference.
Matters which require Committee on the Committees activities in 2015 and priorities for decisions outside the scheduled meetings are dealt with through 2016. additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls.
In addition, in 2015, all Directors attended our annual investor day.
In total, we In addition, each Board Committee provides a standing invitation met formally as a Board 12 times during the year.
The Board also for any Non-Executive Director to attend Committee meetings passed written resolutions on five separate occasions.
rather than just limiting attendance to Committee members.
At each regularly scheduled meeting, we receive reports from the 2015 Committee membership Group Chairman, BGEO CEO, CFO of JSC BGEO Group and the Audit Risk Nomination Remuneration Bank, Bank CEO on the performance and results of the Group.
Committee Committee Committee Committee The CEOs of our principal subsidiaries and the Deputy CEOs of Neil Janin Chairman Member the Bank regularly update the Board on the performance, strategic David Morrison Chairman Member Member developments and initiatives in their respective segment Alasdair Breach Member Member Chairman throughout the year.
The Banks Chief Risk Officer, Group General Kim Bradley Member Chairman Member Counsel and Group Head of Investor Relations also regularly Kaha Kiknavelidze Member Member Member present to the full Board.
The Board also receives updates from Tamaz Georgadze Member Member Group operating functions on internal control and risk management, compliance, internal audit, human resources and Bozidar Djelic Member Member 1 corporate responsibility matters.
Hanna Loikkanen Member Note: 1 Ms Loikkanen was appointed to the Audit Committee in March 2016.
94 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Board and Committee meeting attendance Details of Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2015 are as follows: Board meetings Audit Committee Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to Board attendance attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended 1 Neil Janin Chairman 10 12 3 3 4 4 Irakli Gilauri Executive Director 12 12 Non-Executive Directors David Morrison 12 12 9 9 3 3 4 4 Alasdair Breach 11 12 4 4 3 3 4 4 Kim Bradley 12 12 9 9 4 4 3 3 Kaha Kiknavelidze 12 12 9 9 4 4 3 3 2 Tamaz Georgadze 7 12 3 4 3 3 Bozidar Djelic 9 12 3 4 3 3 Hanna Loikkanen 7 12 2 3 1.
When Mr Janin was unable to attend the meetings, he discussed all matters on the agenda with the Senior Independent Director and the CEO and provided feedback on materials, as required, in advance of the meetings.
Although Mr Georgadze was unable to attend several Board meetings, he conducted two in person full-day workshops with the Deputy CEO of Retail Banking in relation to the development of our retail strategy and participated in several subsequent teleconferences to discuss the same.
Please further note that the Non-Executive Members of the Board of BGEO are identical to the Members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
Board size, composition, tenure and independence We have assessed the independence of each of the seven We consider that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, knowledge, Non-Executive Directors and are of the opinion that each acts in experience, geographic location, nationalities and gender is an independent and objective manner and therefore, under the important to effectively govern the business.
Code, is independent and free from any relationship that could affect their judgement.
Each Non-Executive Director has an The Board and its Nomination Committee work to ensure that the ongoing obligation to inform the Board of any circumstances Board continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, which could impair his or her independence.
independence and Group knowledge necessary to discharge its Details of the individual Directors and their biographies responsibilities in accordance with the highest standards of are set out on pages 86 and 89. governance.
During 2015, our Board comprised nine members: the Chairman, Evaluation of Board performance the CEO and seven Independent Non-Executive Directors.
We The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and believe our overall size and composition to be appropriate, having recognises that its annual evaluation process is an important tool regard in particular to the independence of character and integrity in reaching that goal.
As mentioned in the Governance Statement, of all of the Directors as well as the key technical expertise and in 2015, we engaged Lintstock, an external effectiveness skills in banking, risk, finance, technology and international evaluation specialist, for the second year in a row to conduct an business the Directors bring to their duties.
No individual or group evaluation of the Board, each of our Committees, our Chairman of individuals is able to dominate the decision-making process and and our CEO.
In 2015, we added a dedicated succession planning no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
of our Non-Executive Directors is 3 years.
We value diversity and are committed to increasing the proportion of female The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the representation on our Board in accordance with our Board Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the context for the Diversity Policy, adopted last year.
In 2015, when we refreshed our evaluation and to tailor the content of the surveys distributed to the Board, we appointed Hanna Loikkanen as an Independent Board.
All Directors were requested to complete an online survey.
Non-Executive Director and we continue to interview female The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the candidates for independent Non-Executive Board appointments.
process in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 95 Governance Leadership and Effectiveness continued Succession planning and Board appointments Lintstock subsequently produced a report which was shared with We believe that effective succession planning mitigates the risks all members of the Board, addressing the following areas of Board associated with the departure or absence of well-qualified and performance: experienced individuals.
We recognise this, and our aim is to ensure that the Board and management are always well resourced the composition of the Board, taking into account the Groups with the right people in terms of skills and experience, in order to strategic goals and diversity priorities: effectively and successfully deliver our strategy.
We also recognise the relationships between the members of the Board and that continued tenure brings a depth of Group-specific knowledge between the Board and management, as well as the that is important to retain.
atmosphere in the boardroom: the management of time of the Board, including the annual The Board Nomination Committee is responsible for both Director number of meetings, work cycle, the Boards agenda, as well and executive management succession planning.
There is a as the content, format and timeliness of the Board packs: formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of the support and training needs of the Directors: new Directors to the Board.
More detail on the role and the clarity of the Groups strategy, the Boards testing and performance of the Nomination Committee is on pages 97 and 98. development of the strategy and the effectiveness with which the opinions of stakeholders are considered when drawing up the strategic plan: Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment the risk appetite of the Board, the information provided to the On appointment, our Non-Executive Directors are given a letter of Board to support its oversight of risk, and performance of the appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their Board in identifying and managing the main risks facing the directorship, including the fees payable and the expected time Group: commitment.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit the structure of the Group at senior level, the succession approximately 25 to 35 days per year to the role.
An additional planning for the CEO and key management positions beneath time commitment is required to fulfil their roles as Board the Board: Committee members and or Board Committee Chairmen, as the Boards exposure to management and the ability of the applicable.
We are confident that all Non-Executive Directors Board to evaluate senior management: and dedicate the amount of time necessary to contribute to the the composition and performance of the Committees, the effectiveness of the Board.
The Letters of Appointment for our performance of the Chairman and CEO.
Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at our Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Lintstock also provided the Chairman with feedback received in respect of the performance of other Directors.
Mr Janin Board induction, ongoing training, professional subsequently met individually with each of the Directors to discuss development and independent advice the results and set strategic goals for improvement where On appointment, each Director takes part in an induction necessary.
The performance of Mr Janin was also reviewed, with programme, during which he meets members of senior the results discussed openly with the Board.
management below the Board level, receives information about the role of the Board and individual Directors, each Board The results of the evaluation confirmed that the Board and the Committee and the powers delegated to these Committees.
He is Committees were operating effectively, promote open and also advised of the legal and other duties and obligations of a challenging debate and is well supported by information flow.
Director of a premium listed company.
Progress had been made in improving gender diversity on the Board, executing the Groups strategy and succession planning for We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors executive management, enhancing our systems of risk in order that they may build on their expertise and develop an management and internal control and successfully integrating the ever-more detailed understanding of the business and the markets Risk Committee.
No significant changes to the commitments of in which Group companies operate.
All of our Directors the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors were identified.
participated in ongoing training and professional development throughout 2015, which included briefings, site visits, development As a result of Lintstocks report and subsequent Board discussion sessions and presentations by our Company Secretary, members of the findings, we have set the following objectives for 2016: of management, external speakers and our professional advisors.
continued monitoring of the execution of our Investment Business strategy, development of a longer-term strategy, the appointment We also ensure that all of our Directors have access to of one additional female member to our Board and continued independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, on oversight of risk management and internal controls.
any matter relating to their responsibilities.
We have found the external evaluation process to be helpful in Re-election of Directors improving the performance of our Board and it is envisaged that All of our Directors seek re-election every year and accordingly all Lintstock will conduct a follow-up review next year, in order to Directors will stand for re-election in 2016 with the exception of build upon the issues raised in this years process in greater depth.
Hanna Loikkanen, who is standing for election, as she was The review content for each subsequent evaluation is designed to appointed in June 2015.
The Board has set out in its Notice of build upon learning gained in the previous year to ensure that the Annual General Meeting the qualifications of each Director and recommendations agreed in the review are implemented and that support for re-election and election, as applicable.
The CEO also has his performance individually reviewed by the Remuneration Committee against KPIs which are set annually further details of the KPIs can be found on pages 44 to 45.
96 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015
