Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Nomination Committee Report The role of the Nomination Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist in ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities of Directors, having regard to the highest standards of governance, the strategic direction of the Group and diversity aspirations of the Board.
We also help to ensure that the Group appoints excellent senior managers capable of successfully executing the Groups strategic objectives.
In summary, the Nomination Committee is responsible for: reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees Neil Janin to ensure they are appropriately constituted and balanced in Chairman of the terms of size, skills, experience, independence and knowledge: Nomination Committee identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board based on clearly set criteria which takes into account the skills, experience and diversity required by the Board, and the attributes required of Directors: developing succession plans for the Chairman, CEO, Dear Shareholders, Non-Executive Directors and key senior managerial roles: evaluating the suitability of Directors standing for election and Succession planning for the Board, taking into account re-election at the AGM: gender diversity: succession planning for senior evaluating the independence of the Non-Executive Directors management: and the facilitation of an external valuation of and time required from Non-Executive Directors: the effectiveness of our Board as a whole, our Committees organising the process for the annual Board and Committee and individual Directors were again the key areas of focus of effectiveness reviews and implementing any plan required to the work of the Nomination Committee during 2015. address issues identified: and preparing the report by the Nomination Committee to be In 2015, we made significant progress in implementing our included in the Annual Report.
senior management succession plan in line with our revised strategy.
We also appointed a female Independent The Nomination Committees full Terms of Reference are available Non-Executive Director to the Board in line with the Board on our website, http: bgeo.
com uploads pages nominationDiversity Policy we adopted in 2014, making good on our .
commitment to increase female representation on our Board.
Details of these changes are discussed below.
The composition of the Committee and the members meeting attendance during the year is listed on page 95.
As discussed on pages 95 and 96, we appointed Lintstock as our external evaluator for the second year in a row.
This Succession planning, Board Diversity Policy and Board appointment assisted us to measure our performance y-o-y recruitment and appointment process and set priorities for continued improvement.
Succession planning With respect to Board succession planning, the Nomination Committee continued to search for suitable candidates for Board positions in 2015, taking into account technical expertise and our Neil Janin Board Diversity Policy, outlined later in this section.
In June 2015, Chairman of the Nomination Committee we appointed one additional Independent Non-Executive Director, 7 April 2016 Hanna Loikkanen, to the Board.
Ms Loikkanen brings in a wealth of experience in banking and investment management and we are pleased to welcome her to the Board.
Her biography can be found on page 89.
Upon completion of our Group restructuring in August 2015 to separate our banking and non-banking businesses, we implemented changes in our senior management structure in order to complement the new strategy announced in December 2014.
As succession planning is a continuous process, in December 2015, the Committee further analysed the Groups execution of strategy and the skills of management and made additional changes, effective 1 February 2016, in order to best utilise management talent.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 97 Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Board recruitment and appointment process Directly below is a summary of the implementation of our senior The Board has formal, thorough and transparent procedures in management succession plan.
place for Board recruitment and appointment.
Irakli Gilauri was appointed as Group CEO and resigned from In identifying suitable candidates, we typically seek his position as CEO of the Bank: recommendations from trusted advisors but may also use open Murtaz Kikoria resigned from his position as CFO of the Bank advertising or external search services to facilitate the recruitment.
and assumed the position of CEO of the Bank: We carefully assess each candidate against our objectives and Levan Kulijanishvili was appointed as CFO of JSC BGEO Group Board Diversity Policy, and take care that appointees have enough and the Bank in addition to his role as Head of Internal Control, time available to devote to the position.
Security and AML Compliance : Archil Gachechiladze was appointed as Deputy CEO Short-listed candidates are generally seen first by the Chairman, Corporate and Investment Banking following the combination the BGEO CEO and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
If of the Banks Corporate Banking and Investment Management the selection process progresses further, each potential candidate businesses: is invited to meet other members of the Nomination Committee as Avto Namicheishvili was appointed as General Counsel of JSC well as members of management.
We then decide whether to BGEO Group: Tornike Gogichaishvili was promoted to the role of Deputy CEO recommend an appointment to the Board and the Board decides Operations, having previously served as Chief Operating whether to make the appointment.
Officer of the Bank: and Alexander Sasha Katsman was promoted to the role of Deputy Committee effectiveness review CEO Human Resources and Brand Management, having It is the Nomination Committees responsibility to organise the previously served as Head of Brand Management.
Board, Committee and individual Director performance reviews.
In 2015, the Nomination Committee recommended, and the Board We believe our internal promotions reflect the increasing strength approved, the re-appointment of Lintstock.
Details of the process, of our executive management team and strong results of the results and 2016 action plan can be found on pages 95 and 96. coaching and development programmes we have implemented over the past few years.
Lintstock also performed the effectiveness review of the Nomination Committee in respect of 2015.
The evaluation Board Diversity Policy principally addressed how effectively the Nomination Committee The statement and objectives of our Board Diversity Policy are as reviews the composition of the Board and the Board Committees follows: as well as how the Nomination Committee develops and implements succession plans for both the Board and executive Statement management.
The evaluation concluded that the Nomination Our Board embraces diversity in all its forms.
Diversity of skills, Committee continues to operate and perform effectively.
background, knowledge, technical expertise, and gender, amongst other factors, will be taken into consideration when For 2016, the Nomination Committee will continue its focus on seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Notwithstanding Board succession planning by monitoring the needs of the Board the foregoing, any Board appointment will always be made based and its Committees to ensure that both new additions and on merit.
successions are managed in line with the evolving business, strategic objectives, the Boards gender diversity and regulatory Objectives requirements.
In particular, we have identified accounting or IFRS The Board should ensure the appropriate mix of skills and experience and additional female representation as key priorities in experience to ensure an effective Board.
The Board should ensure that it comprises a majority of Directors who are independent in character and judgement.
We will also continue to grow the talent of our management The Board aims to increase the number of women on the through coaching and development programmes, which we have Board to two within the next two years and further increase this found to enhance self-development and mentoring skills, resulting number thereafter.
in the further development of potential future leaders within the Group.
The Nomination Committee will also continue to meet with senior managers in order to gain greater understanding of the breadth and depth of management talent.
98 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015
