Governance Audit Committee Report The biographies of the members of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 86 and 89.
The Audit Committee works to a planned programme of activities focused on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle and standing items that it considers regularly under its Terms of Reference.
Our meetings are regularly attended by the CFO of JSC BGEO Group and the Bank, head of Internal Audit, head of Internal Control, Security and AML Compliance and Risk departments, Chief Risk Officer of the Bank and occasionally by the BGEO and JSC BGEO Group CEO and Bank CEOs.
The external auditor also attends the regularly scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
David Morrison Separately, we had regular private sessions with the heads of Chairman of the Internal Audit and Internal Control, Security and AML Compliance Audit Committee departments and the external auditor.
These sessions, which are not attended by management, allow us to discuss any issues of concern in more detail and directly with the audit teams.
From time to time, other members of management are invited to attend meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into key Dear Shareholders, issues and developments.
Our activities focus on the integrity of the Groups financial Meetings of the Audit Committee take place prior to the Board reporting and processes.
In 2015, both our Group and the meeting in order for the Audit Committee to report its activities and environment in which it operates continued to evolve.
The matters of particular relevance to the Board.
devaluation of the Lari in the first half of the year required our focus on loan loss allowances and the provisioning process, the Mr Morrison attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder most important and significant area of judgement affecting our questions that may be raised on the Audit Committees activities.
Key purpose and responsibilities In light of the updates to the Code in respect of risk management On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee encourages and and internal controls, we spent time last year ensuring that seeks to safeguard high standards of integrity and conduct in additional requirements introduced by the Code were met by the financial reporting, internal control and risk management together Group.
We improved the risk management framework and with the Risk Committee, internal audit and the supervision of our processes and systems of internal control.
We worked closely external auditor.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on with the Risk Committee to ensure that the responsibility for the how it discharges its responsibilities and makes recommendations oversight of our risk management processes and internal to the Board, all of which have been accepted during the year.
controls were appropriately covered between the two Committees.
We also dedicated particular attention to our IT and The primary roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee information security controls and instructed EY to perform an remained the same as in 2014, save for changes adopted in audit of our IT and information security systems, which included response to amendments to the Code.
The Audit Committees full a review of our cyber-security controls.
Terms of Reference are available on our website at http: bgeo.
I am also pleased to announce that Hanna Loikkanen was appointed to the Committee in March 2016.
She has served on Financial reporting audit committees of other financial institutions and will be a great We carried out our primary responsibilities to monitor the integrity asset to our Committee going forward.
of the financial statements of the Group and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance as I invite you to read about the results of these and the other main well as review the appropriateness of the Groups accounting activities of the Committee in the report below.
policies and their quality and consistency.
We assessed the clarity and consistency of disclosures, including compliance with relevant David Morrison financial reporting standards and other reporting requirements.
We Chairman of the Audit Committee also reviewed and challenged the going concern assessment and 7 April 2016 viability statement.
Composition of the Audit Committee and meetings In addition to analysing and discussing reports received by The composition of the Audit Committee and the members management throughout the year, the Audit Committee met attendance during the year is listed on page 95.
Our Audit frequently with management and the external auditors.
Meetings Committee is solely comprised of Independent Non-Executive with the external auditors often occurred without management Directors.
In these meetings, we discussed accounting and reporting matters affecting the Group, including the new With respect to the Audit Committees qualifications and presentation of the Groups income statement, the change in background, Mr Morrison is a trained securities lawyer who functional currency and the upcoming adoption of IFRS 9. specialised in financial disclosure for over 25 years: Mr Kiknavelidze is a trained financial analyst skilled in financial In addition, the meetings with the external auditors involved statement analysis who manages his own investment fund: discussions of the key risks identified by the external auditors as Mr Bradley served as a Managing Director at Goldman Sachs, being significant to the 2015 audit.
Taking into account the key where, immediately prior to joining the Companys Board and audit risks identified by our external auditors, but also using our Audit Committee, he sat on various audit committees within the own independent knowledge of the Group, we reviewed and organisation and assessed internal audit functions and internal challenged where necessary, the actions, estimates and controls.
Our Audit Committee believes that each member has judgements of management in relation to the financial statements.
recent and relevant financial experience in satisfaction of the requirements of the Code.
100 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information The primary areas of judgement considered by the Audit Please see pages 46 to 47 for a description of the BGEO risk management framework and internal control processes.
Committee in relation to the financial statements are addressed below.
Since the Bank is the Groups largest business and operates in the Appropriateness of allowance for loan losses complex financial services sector, its risk management framework In 2015, we continued to scrutinise the appropriateness of the and internal control processes are key to that of the Group.
As mentioned in last years Annual Report, the Bank introduced a new loan loss provisioning A detailed description of the Banks risk management methodology on 1 January 2014, which was developed in framework and internal control processes can be found on consultation with Deloitte.
This provisioning methodology, pages 52 to 59. which the Bank continued to use in 2015, is based on a statistical assessment of probability of default and loss given The Risk Committee Report is set out on pages 104 to 105. default.
In 2015, slower economic growth, the devaluation of the Lari and the acquisition of PrivatBank led to deterioration in our loan In relation to risk management and internal control, the Audit book quality.
These factors led to increases in our Banking Committee: Business Cost of Risk ratio and cost of credit risk.
In response, ensures that there are clearly defined lines of accountability and provisioning levels were increased on both the corporate and delegation of authority: retail loan books to account mainly for the increased postreviews the effectiveness of the policies and procedures and devaluation risk.
The main judgements in respect of the systems for risk management and internal control related to: appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses involved the financial reporting, which includes challenge of management timing of the recognition of any given impairment and the size of judgements and estimates: the loan loss.
Throughout the year, management reported on whistleblowing: the Banks principal borrowers as well as on the largest conflicts of interest including assistance to the Board with impaired and non-performing loans.
Management also reported reviewing the permissibility of such conflicts: and to us on the methodologies for identifying assets at risk, anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and procedures.
categorising the loan portfolio and determining provisioning monitors various areas of operational risk, including rates, as well as the assumptions applied in calculating the investigations into control weaknesses and managements provisions for loan losses.
In connection with these reports, we response to such findings, including: challenged the underlying assumptions made by management IT and information security including cyber-security : with respect to individually and collectively impaired loans and corporate security and similar areas of operational risk: and the system of controls to prevent and detect errors in the internal and external fraud or misconduct.
The Audit Committee is supported by a number of sources of In conclusion, we were satisfied that the impairment provisions internal assurance within the Group in order to discharge its were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to impairment responsibilities, including reports from and regular discussions provisions are set out in Note 10 of the consolidated financial with the Group executives with whom it regularly meets as statements.
described earlier in this Report.
We receive internal audits reports on the control environment and, as mentioned later in this Report, Valuation of own premises and investment properties we approve the internal audit plan which, for 2015, included a We received reports from management on the assumptions to thorough risk management and internal control assessment.
be used in valuing the Groups premises and investment During 2015 and up to the date of this Annual Report and properties.
The Group engaged Colliers International Georgia Accounts, internal audit did not find any significant weaknesses in Colliers, an independent external valuer, to value 52 of our risk management or internal controls.
We challenged the reports properties, which covered approximately 60% of our portfolio.
by management and internal audit and requested data regarding EY tested the Colliers valuation of our premises and investment the application of controls for various types of transactions properties and reported its findings.
We discussed the results affecting the relevant account balances in the financial statements.
of the Colliers and EY findings.
We scrutinised and challenged management assumptions and judgements and were satisfied With respect to external assurance, the Audit Committee reviews with the assumptions and judgements applied.
The disclosures the external auditors observations on risk management and relating to the valuation of own premises and investment internal financial controls identified as part of its audit.
As the properties are set out in Note 30 of the consolidated financial quality of the Groups financial statements are dependent on the statements.
effectiveness of our internal IT and information security control systems, we approved the engagement of EY to perform an In addition to the primary judgements discussed above, we also external audit of our IT governance, IT processes and information discussed accounting and financial reporting matters relating to: security controls in order to obtain external assurance on the our M&A transactional activity, including valuation of options, design and operating effectiveness of these systems.
This audit convertible shares and goodwill: revenue recognition in our also confirmed that our IT and information security control systems healthcare business: the new presentation of the Groups income are effective.
Data security and privacy procedures were found to statement: the change in functional currency: the classification of be strong, although cyber-security was noted as and continues to non-recurring income and expenses: GHG listing costs: and the be a significant risk.
Based on the above, we are satisfied that our overall internal Risk management and internal controls control framework is effective.
The Audit Committee recognises that a strong and effective system of risk management and internal control.
Although the Board assumes the ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control framework, its work is supported by both our Committee and the Risk Committee.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 101 Governance Audit Committee Report continued review the findings of the external audit with the external We have asked management to implement a plan to further auditor, including the level of errors identified during the audit: improve our IT strategy and architecture in order to make sure that monitor managements responsiveness to the external auditors the data and reports produced by our IT and information security findings and recommendations: systems continue to ensure that our financial statements are review the content of the management letter issued by the prepared to a high quality.
There will be ongoing focus on controls external auditor: to prevent an information security breach or cyber-attack given the review the qualifications, expertise and resources of the changing nature of potential threats.
We will continue to monitor external auditor: these systems in 2016. monitor the external auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, professional and regulatory The Audit Committee has also considered and confirmed to the requirements: Board that its work is performed in accordance with the provisions review audit fees and the cost effectiveness of the audit: in the Code and the Financial Reporting Councils FRC monitor the rotation of key partners in accordance with associated Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and applicable legislation: and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
recommend the appointment, re-appointment or removal, as applicable, of the external auditor.
Internal audit The Audit Committee monitors the scope, extent and effectiveness We have an established framework for assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and the internal audit programme and we seek to ensure it is adequately resourced, has of the external audit process.
This includes: the correct standing within the Group and is focused on the correct issues.
Following the assessment of the internal audit a review of the audit plan, including the materiality level set by function in 2014, the Audit Committee approved a larger budget the auditors and the process they have adopted to identify for 2015, which allowed our IT audit function to be partially financial statement risks and key areas of audit focus: outsourced, staff to be hired and continued training and regular papers and communications with the external auditor to development to be provided for the internal audit team.
both the Committee and management: regular discussions with EY without management present and We also review and approve the internal audit policy and annual management without EY present in order to discuss the internal audit plan.
The 2015 internal audit plan focused on external audit process: assessed risks and internal controls and we reviewed the plan on a review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor a regular basis, including any changes proposed to the scope of judgement and the reasoning behind the conclusions reached: work.
We also discuss and approve changes to the internal audit a review of EYs 2015 Transparency Report and the annual FRC methodology.
Audit Quality Inspection Report of EY: and a formal questionnaire issued to all Committee members and Although the Board retains overall responsibility for the internal senior management of the Group who are involved in the audit control and the identification of and management of risk, the including internal audit which covers among other items things internal audit function provides independent assessment on the the quality of the audit and audit team, the audit planning robustness and effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk approach and execution, the presence and capabilities of the management and control across the Group.
lead audit partner, the audit teams communication with the Committee and management and the auditors independence In 2015, 66 audit assignments were undertaken by the Internal and objectivity.
Audit Department, covering a wide range of financial reporting and operational controls, IT and IS systems and risk management In 2015, we received an Audit Quality Inspection Report from the processes.
We received regular reports from internal audit on its Audit Quality Review team of the FRC in respect of EYs 2014 audit audit activities, progress of the internal audit plan, the results of of the Group.
The FRC provided us with a copy of their report any unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these which has been reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee issues and resource requirements of the Internal Audit and separately with the external auditor.
The Audit Committee is Department.
We also reviewed and monitored managements satisfied that the matters raised do not give it concerns over the responsiveness to internal audits findings through follow-up quality, objectivity or independence of the audit and believe that reports provided by internal audit.
The Head of Internal Audit has the matters raised in the FRC Report have been appropriately direct access to the Audit Committee and the opportunity to addressed by EY in the 2015 audit.
discuss matters with the Audit Committee without other members of management present.
Following our assessment of the external auditor, we formed our own judgement which was consistent with managements view We reviewed internal audits self-assessment of its performance and reported to the Board that: and independently formed our own view of the internal audit function by considering the progress of internal audit against the the audit team was sound and reliable, providing high-quality agreed plan, the quality of the reporting by internal audit to the execution and service: Audit Committee and the ability of internal audit to address the quality of the audit work was of a high standard: unsatisfactory results.
On this basis, we concluded that the EYs independence and objectivity were affirmed: internal audit function is effective and respected by management EY was in a position to challenge management on its approach and conforms to the standards set by the Institute of Internal to key judgements: and Auditors.
appropriate discussions were held with the Audit Committee during the audit planning process.
External audit With respect to our responsibilities for the external audit process We have sought assurance and are comfortable that no undue on behalf of the Board, we: pressure has been asserted on the level of audit fees so as to ensure that there is no risk to audit work being conducted approve the annual audit plan, which includes setting the areas effectively.
of responsibility, scope of the audit and key risks identified: supervise the audit engagement, including the degree to which the external auditor was able to assess key accounting and audit judgement: 102 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information We have also developed a Conflicts Authorisation Policy through Lead audit partner rotation and audit tendering which we assess actual and potential conflicts of interest and The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner assist the Board in its review of the permissibility of such conflicts.
responsible for the Group every five years.
The current lead audit partner, Andrew McIntyre, has been in place for four years.
He has The Audit Committee also keeps under review the Groups confirmed that he will not be returning as our lead auditor in Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures and respect of the 2016 audit.
receives reports from management on a regular basis in relation to any actual or potential wrong-doing.
There were no significant We have been monitoring audit regulatory developments from the findings in 2015.
FRC, Competition Commission and EU, which require us to put our external audit contract out to tender no later than 2022.
EY Viability statement was appointed as our Group statutory auditor by shareholders at In accordance with the revised Code, the Directors are required to our 2012 AGM, following a competitive tender process.
The Audit assess the viability of the Group.
In collaboration with the Risk Committee and Board have recommended the re-appointment of Committee, we spent time considering the timeframe over which EY each year since 2012, which has been approved by the viability statement should be made as well as an assessment shareholders.
We fully support the re-tendering requirements and underlying the period of coverage, which we agreed should be will carry out a competitive tender process prior to the 2022 deadline.
The Committee has complied with the relevant parts of three years, which corresponds to the Groups business planning the Competition and Market Authority Final Order on the statutory cycle.
In particular, we looked closely at the Groups current audit market for the year ended 31 December 2015. financial position, including allocated capital expenditure and funding requirements, future prospects, the principal risks and Non-audit services uncertainties related to financial reporting, risk management and We have a long-established policy in relation to the supply of internal control as well as the downside stress testing.
We non-audit services by external auditors and, in particular, we discussed our analysis with the Risk Committee, management and refrain from using our external auditors to provide tax advisory full Board.
The viability statement is set out on page 47. services unless there is a very strong case for not seeking an alternative supplier.
We engage external advisors to provide Fair, balanced and understandable reporting non-audit services based on the skills and experience required for Having been tasked by the Board to advise it, we examined the the work.
When engaging our external auditors under the limited 2015 Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether they are circumstances detailed in our policy, prior to the engagement fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information commencing, BGEO is required to satisfy itself that the external necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised business model and strategy.
in any way as a result of supplying non-audit services.
All nonaudit services are pre-approved by the Audit Committee and We did this by satisfying ourselves that there was a robust process communicated to the Board.
Any permissible non-audit service of review and challenge at different levels within the Group to that exceeds 100,000 must be robustly justified and, if ensure balance and consistency.
We reviewed several drafts of the appropriate, tendered, before it is approved.
If non-audit services 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and directly reviewed the are undertaken by the external auditor, the Audit Committee overall messages and tone of the Annual Report with the CEO and receives regular reports on such non-audit services so that it can CFO.
We also considered other information regarding the Groups monitor the types of services being provided and the fees performance and business presented to the Board during the incurred.
The Groups current Non-Audit Services Policy was period, both from management and the external auditor.
After reviewed and approved in March 2016 and can be found on our consideration of all of this information, we are satisfied that, when website at http: bgeo.
com uploads pages  as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, services-32.
balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, In 2015, EY provided certain non-audit services to the BGEO business model and strategy.
Group including: assurance services in respect of our IT processes: FATCA advice: the provision of comfort letters for Committee effectiveness review creditor covenants: and employee training.
The value of these For the second year in a row, the performance review of the Audit non-audit services was US$ 155,000.
In preparation for GHGs Committee was externally facilitated by Lintstock.
The 2014 listing, due to EYs extensive knowledge of GHG, the GHG Board Committee evaluation identified that Committee members would decided that EY was best placed to undertake the considerable like to enhance the review of internal and external auditor amount of work required in the short time-frame in the preparation effectiveness, finalise the division of responsibilities with the Risk for listing.
As a result of this, for the year ended 31 December Committee and continue to focus on loan loss provisioning and 2015, a total of US$ 1,295,000 non-audit fees were incurred for our internal controls relating to information security including EYs services in relation to the listing of GHG which are not cyber-security and IT risk.
The 2015 Committee effectiveness expected to re-occur in the future.
Therefore, both EY and the evaluation, performed in March 2016, largely mirrored the 2014 Audit Committee do not consider that this work review in order to allow a direct comparison of performance.
In compromises the independence of the external auditors.
addition, the 2015 evaluation added quality of financial reporting, the assessment of the Groups IT and information security systems EY has expressed its willingness to continue as auditor of the and internal financial reporting controls as well as risk Group.
Separate resolutions proposing its re-appointment and management within the scope of the Audit Committees determination of its remuneration by the Audit Committee will be responsibilities.
The effectiveness evaluation concluded that the proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Audit Committee operates and performs effectively.
Whistleblowing, conflicts of interest and anti-bribery and In 2016, we will work with the Nomination Committee and seek to anti-corruption policies and procedures appoint an individual with accounting or IFRS expertise to the The Audit Committee ensures that there are effective procedures Board and Audit Committee as well as continue to remain focused relating to whistleblowing.
In particular, we have developed a on the Groups IT and information security systems, in particular, Whistleblowing Policy which allows staff to confidentially raise any cyber-security.
We keep this policy under review and receive regular updates from management as to any issues raised by employees.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 103
