BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 14 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Report of the Audit Committee 31 December 2015 On the following pages, we present the Audit Committees the The complete details of the Committees formal duties and Committee Report for 2015, setting out the Committees responsibilities are set out in the Committees Terms of Reference, structure and composition, principal duties and key activities which can be obtained from the Companys Administrator.
As in previous years, the Committee has reviewed Independent Auditor the Companys financial reporting, the independence and KPMG Channel Islands Limited KPMG has been the effectiveness of the Independent Auditor and the internal control Independent Auditor from the date of the initial listing on the and risk management systems of the service providers.
Lee Clark was appointed as the Structure and Composition audit engagement partner and opinion signatory after the The Committee is chaired by Christopher Legge and its other conclusion of the 2011 audit.
In accordance with normal audit members are Huw Evans and Claire Whittet.
rotation requirements Lee Clark will be succeeded by another audit engagement partner and opinion signatory following the Appointment to the Audit Committee is for a period up to three conclusion of the 2015 audit.
years which may be extended for two further three year periods provided that the majority of the Audit Committee remain The independence and objectivity of the Independent Auditor is independent of the Manager.
Christopher Legge has served reviewed by the Committee, which also reviews the terms under his third term of three years.
Huw Evans is currently serving his which the Independent Auditor is appointed to perform nonsecond term and Claire Whittet is serving her first term.
The Committee has also established pre-approval policies and procedures for the engagement of the auditor to Recognising that Christopher Legge would reach the end of his provide audit, assurance and tax services.
These are that the third term of three years as Chairman of the Audit Committee in Independent Auditor may not provide a service which: January 2016, the Board determined at its meeting in December places them in a position to audit their own work 2015 that, to ensure continuity of oversight of the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements, his term as Chairman of the creates a mutuality of interest Audit Committee should be extended to June 2016, when Huw results in the Independent Auditor functioning as a manager or Evans will succeed him in that appointment.
employee of the Company The Committee conducts formal meetings at least four times a puts the Independent Auditor in the role of advocate of year.
The table on page 6 sets out the number of Committee the Company meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2015 and The audit and non-audit fees proposed by the Independent the number of such meetings attended by each committee Auditor each year are reviewed by the Committee taking member.
The Independent Auditor is invited to attend those into account the Companys structure, operations and other meetings at which the annual and interim reports are considered.
requirements during the period and the Committee makes The Independent Auditor and the Committee will meet together recommendations to the Board.
without representatives of either the Administrator or Manager being present if the Committee considers this to be necessary.
The recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced a recommendation that the external audit be put out Principal duties to tender every ten years.
During the year, the Audit Committee The role of the Committee includes: initiated and completed the process of tendering the external audit monitoring the integrity of the published Financial Statements for the financial year ending December 2016.
The Audit Committee of the Company: issued a request for a proposal to four firms in September 2015 following a review by the Audit Committee to determine which firms reviewing and reporting to the Board on the significant issues to invite to tender.
and judgements made in the preparation of the Companys published Financial Statements, having regard to matters The members of the Audit Committee met in September 2015 communicated by the Independent Auditor, significant financial with three of the four firms who were invited to tender.
The fourth returns to regulators and other financial information: firm was unable to tender due to a conflict of interest.
Proposals monitoring and reviewing the quality and effectiveness of the were subsequently submitted from two firms whilst the third firm Independent Auditor and their independence: decided to withdraw from the process.
considering and making recommendations to the Board on the Following review of the submissions, the Audit Committee appointment, reappointment, replacement and remuneration to members resolved to recommend the continuing appointment the Companys Independent Auditor: and of KPMG as auditors, deeming this course of action to be in the monitoring and reviewing the internal control and risk best interests of shareholders, by virtue of the strength of the management systems of the service providers.
KPMG audit team and the greater cost effectiveness resulting BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 15 Independent Auditor continued Further to the above, during the year, the Committee performed a specific evaluation of the performance of the Independent Auditor.
from the audit work that other KPMG member firms perform on This was supported by the results of questionnaires completed Brevan Howard vehicles.
by the Committee covering areas such as the quality of the audit The Audit Committee has examined the scope and results of the team, business understanding, audit approach and management.
external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and This questionnaire was part of the process by which the objectivity of the Independent Auditor, with particular regard to Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit.
non-audit fees, and considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited, as There were no significant adverse findings from the Independent Auditor, to be independent of the Company.
Key Activities in 2015 Audit fees and Safeguards on Non-Audit Services The following sections discuss the assessment made by the The tables below summarises the remuneration paid by the Committee during the year: Company to KPMG and to other KPMG member firms for audit Significant Financial Statement Issues and non-audit services during the years ended 31 December The Committees review of the interim and annual Financial 2015 and 31 December 2014.
Statements focused on the following area: Year ended Year ended The Companys investment in the Master Fund had a fair value 31.12.15 31.12.14 of US$1.42 billion as at 31 December 2015 and represents KPMG Channel Islands Limited substantially all the net assets of the Company.
This investment is valued in accordance with the Accounting Policies set out in note Annual audit 27,500 27,000 3 to the Audited Financial Statements.
The Financial Statements Interim review 8,750 8,750 of the Master Fund for the year ended 31 December 2015 were audited by KPMG Cayman who issued an unmodified audit Other KPMG member firms opinion dated 18 March 2016.
The Audit Committee has reviewed US Tax Services 13,358 the Financial Statements of the Master Fund and the Accounting Policies and determined the fair value of the investment as at 31 US Tax services were provided in relation to investor tax reporting December 2015 is reasonable.
requirements in the United States.
This matter was discussed during the planning and final stage The Committee considers KPMG to be independent of the of the audit and there was no significant divergence of views Company.
Further, the Committee has obtained KPMGs between the management and the Independent Auditor.
confirmation that the services provided by other KPMG member firms to the wider Brevan Howard organisation do not prejudice Effectiveness of the Audit its independence.
The Committee held formal meetings with KPMG during the course of the year: 1 before the start of the audit to discuss Internal Control formal planning, to discuss any potential issues and to agree The Audit Committee has also reviewed the need for an internal the scope that will be covered and 2 after the audit work was audit function.
The Committee has concluded that the systems concluded to discuss the significant issues such as those and procedures employed by the Manager and the Administrator, stated above.
including their own internal audit functions, currently provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, The Committee considered the effectiveness and independence which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
An of KPMG by using a number of measures, including but not internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore limited to:- considered unnecessary.
Reviewing the audit plan presented to them before the start of The Committee examined externally prepared assessments the audit: of the control environment in place at the Manager and the Reviewing and challenging the audit findings report including Administrator, with each providing a Service Organisation Control variations from the original plan: SOC1 report.
In addition, the Chairman also visited the offices of the Manager and conducted discussions with its internal Reviewing any changes in audit personnel: and auditor.
No significant findings have been noted during the year.
Requesting feedback from both the Manager and the Administrator.
BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 16 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Report of the Audit Committee continued 31 December 2015 Conclusion and Recommendation After reviewing various reports such as the operational and risk management framework and performance reports from the Manager and Administrator, consulting where necessary with KPMG, and assessing the significant Financial Statement issue listed on page 15, the Committee is satisfied that the Financial Statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised and challenged and are sufficiently robust.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered whether the 2015 Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee are satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance.
The Independent Auditor reported to the Committee that no material misstatements were found in the course of its work.
Furthermore, both the Manager and the Administrator confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of any material misstatements including matters relating to the presentation of the Financial Statements.
The Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the Independent Auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
Consequent to the review process on the effectiveness of the independent audit and the review of audit and non-audit services, the Committee has recommended that KPMG be reappointed for the coming financial year.
For any questions on the activities of the Committee not addressed in the foregoing, a member of the Audit Committee remains available to attend each Annual General Meeting to respond to such questions.
Christopher Legge Audit Committee Chairman 21 March 2016
