Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The role of the Board The Group is led and controlled by the Board, which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
The roles of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors have been clearly defined in writing and agreed by the Board to ensure that a clear balance of power and authority is present.
In addition to their general directors duties, these roles have the following specific responsibilities: Chairman Simon Miller Chief Executive David Nicol Providing leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style Providing leadership to the Group and ensure that the Executive and tone to promote open, constructive debate and effective Committee is effective in discharging its delegated authority from decision making.
Ensuring good information flows from the Executive to the Board, Ensure that good relations are maintained with key stakeholders.
and from the Board to its key stakeholders.
Develop strategy proposals for recommendation to the Board and Supporting and advising the Chief Executive, in particular in the be accountable for the performance of the business.
Maintain a dialogue with the Chairman on all important matters Promoting effective and constructive relationships between Nonand strategic issues facing the Group.
Executive Directors, Executive Directors and Senior Management.
Ensure that there is an effective framework of internal controls Ensuring that the performance of the Board is formally including risk management in relation to all business activities.
reviewed and that actions taken to address any issues arising Oversee the financial activities of the Group and the development are addressed.
of an annual budget and medium term plan.
Chair the Nomination Committee and build an effective and Ensure that human resourcing is managed so that the Group has complementary Board, regularly considering its composition and the capabilities and resources required to achieve its plans and balance, diversity and succession planning.
that robust management succession and development plans are Ensure that Non-Executive Directors induction and training in place.
programmes are implemented and are effective.
Senior Independent Director Angela Knight Non-Executive Directors Act as a point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders Constructively challenge management and decisions taken at to discuss matters of concern not appropriate to address through Board level.
the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or Constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting Act as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of intermediary for the other Directors if required.
Meet with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman Uphold high standards of integrity and probity, and support the present at least annually and lead the Board in the ongoing Chairman and Executive Directors in instilling the appropriate monitoring and annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
culture, values and behaviours in the boardroom and across Be available to meet with a range of major shareholders to develop the Group.
a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns and report Insist on receiving high-quality information sufficiently in advance the outcome of such meetings to the Board.
of Board meetings and challenge the adequacy and quality of such information.
Board meetings and activity during the year Board agendas are set by the Chairman, following consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
An annual programme of items for discussion is kept under review by the Company Secretary to ensure that all matters reserved to the Board and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
48 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Boards scheduled forward programme includes the following items, some of which are considered at each meeting, and others which are reviewed periodically throughout the year: Strategy and long-term objectives Reports from Board Committees Investor relations Annual budget and medium term plan Chief Executives Statement Governance Annual Report and financial results Head of Wealth and Investment Board evaluation Managements Report Dividend policy and declaration Project updates of dividends Chief Operating Officers Report HR policy and updates Treasury and tax policy Client outcomes report Principal risks and Risk Performance against plans ICAAP Appetite Statements Internal control and risk management There are also a number of informal meetings of the Board, which enable the Directors to spend additional time together to discuss issues more broadly.
The Board meets for an annual full day strategy meeting which gives time to debate strategic issues more widely and to receive presentations from different parts of the business.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without Executive Directors present and, at least annually, the Senior Independent Director meets with Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Board has a schedule of formally reserved powers and this is reviewed each year, along with the terms of reference for its Committees, to ensure that decisions are being taken effectively by the appropriate governance forum.
Board Committees Certain Board responsibilities are delegated to formal Board Committees which play an important governance role through the work they carry out.
Reports on their activities can be found on the following pages and their terms of reference are available on the Brewin website.
The Committee Chairmen report formally on Committee activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Board Audit Board Risk Remuneration Nomination Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Ian Dewar Kath Cates Paul Wilson Simon Miller David Nicol Composition At least three Directors.
At least three At least three Directors.
Chief Executive, Finance Only independent Only independent independent Directors.
Only independent Director, Head of Wealth and Directors can Directorscan The Board Chairman Directors can Investment Management, bemembers bemembers may also be a member bemembers Group Risk and Compliance Director, Chief Operating Officer and the Group Human Resources Director Meets At least four At least four At least three At least twice At least twelve times annually times annually times annually annually times annually Role Reviews the Oversees the Risk Sets the Reviews the Manages the day-to-day running of Groups financial Management remuneration policy composition of reporting and Framework of for the Group the Board and the Group, including the development and recommends to the Group its Committees Sets the individual the Board that implementation of Assists the Board remuneration of Ensures that strategy, monitoring of the Report and in discharging its theExecutive appropriate Accounts should operating and financial responsibilities Directors and other procedures are performance and be approved for the integrity staff designated in place for the the prioritisation and Reviews internal of the Groups asCode staff nomination, allocation of resources financial controls internal control and underthe FCAs selection, training risk management Remuneration Code and evaluation Assesses the systems of Directors independence and effectiveness of Ensures that there the internal and is an effective external auditor framework for succession planning The Group has established a Corporate Responsibility Committee which is chaired by Caroline Taylor, a Non-Executive Director.
More details of the Groups Corporate Responsibility strategy are set out on pages 34 to 39.
49 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board composition At the year end the Board comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The namesof the Directors serving at the end of the year and their biographies are set out on pages 46 to 47.
Kath Cates was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 18 December 2014.
Sir Stephen Lamport and Michael Williams both retired at the AGM on 20 February 2015.
Length of tenure of Directors Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Balance of male and female Directors at 30 September 2015 Directors at 30 September 2015 at 30 September 2015 4 02 years 1 Chairman 6 Male 3 25 years 3 Executive 3 Female 2 Over 5 years 5 Independent Non-Executive Independence The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his appointment as Chairman in March 2013 and all of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in accordance with provision B.
1.1 of the Code, and have been so throughout the year.
The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element on the Board and are well placed to constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management.
They bring robust opinions, knowledge and skill to Board discussions.
Angela Knight will reach the ninth anniversary of her appointment in July 2016.
The Board has concluded that it is in shareholders interests for her to remain on the Board.
The Board is convinced that Angela continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and that her experience provides balance to the more recently appointed members of the Board.
Board evaluation A formal evaluation of the Board and its Committees is carried out on an annual basis and at least every three years is facilitated by an independent third party.
The last external evaluation was conducted in 2014 by Trust Associates Limited, who had no other links to the Group.
For the 2015 Board evaluation, the Chairman held individual meetings with each Director to obtain their views on how well the Board was operating and to identify areas where improvements can be made.
The result of these discussions was considered by the Board and actions to address improvement areas will be developed.
These include the growth of the business in the context of the Groups strategic objectives, the scope of internal audit, and the connection between the Board Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Overall, the evaluation process confirmed that the Board was operating effectively within a culture that allowed open and challenging debate and that all Directors individually made valuable contributions and demonstrated commitment to the role.
Appointment of Directors The Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and other applicable regulations and policies govern the appointment of the Directors.
The Directors service agreements or letters of appointment as applicable are available for viewing via the Company Secretary.
Directors may be elected by shareholders in a general meeting or appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for managing the search process for new Directors and recommends to the Board the appointment of new Directors.
Further details of this process are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 62.
50 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Development All new Directors participate in a full induction programme, taking into account any previous experience they may already have as Directors of a public limited company or otherwise.
The induction programme for new Directors will typically include meetings with the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team covering the Board, the business, finance, risk and compliance, operations and key change programmes as well as branch visits.
Training sessions are undertaken for the entire Board and individually as appropriate.
The whole Board training programme for the year included briefings on the Directors duties in a regulated entity and changes which had developed in the last year, FCA enforcement actions and obligations under the Model Code as well as updates on the senior managers regime, risk management and internal control and detailed briefings from the business.
Directors conflicts of interest The Board has a policy and effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
It is a recurring agenda item at all Board meetings and gives each Director the opportunity to raise any conflict of interest they may have, or to update the Board on any change to a previous conflict of interest already lodged.
A Register of Conflicts is held by the Company Secretary and a log of all conflicts raised is maintained and updated accordingly.
All Directors are aware that it is their responsibility to raise and update any conflicts of interest they may have.
Whenever a Director takes on additional external responsibilities, the Chairman considers any potential conflicts that may arise, and whether the Director continues to have sufficient time to fulfil their duties as a Director.
If a potential conflict exists, the Board is empowered to authorise potential conflicts and agree what measures, if any, are required to mitigate or manage the conflict of interest.
Internal control and risk management The Board recognises that its risk management strategy is essential for achieving good business governance to protect stakeholders and enhance shareholder value.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establish a system of internal control.
It reviews its effectiveness periodically, by receiving ongoing reports on internal control from the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Board debates the key risks for the Group, following more detailed work by the Board Risk Committee, and sets the Groups Risk Appetite Statements.
An explanation of the Groups risk framework is given in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosure on page 30.
The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control established by the Group, reviewing its effectiveness and reporting to the shareholders that they have done so.
They report as follows: i There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group as explained the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 30 to 33 and the report from the Board Risk Committee on pages 53 to55.
This has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It is reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull guidance in the Code.
Any system of internal control is designed to highlight and manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has implemented the Three Lines of Defence model to ensure a robust and effective framework to manage internal controls and risks across the organisation.
ii The Directors have reviewed the Groups system of internal controls and compliance monitoring and believe that these provide assurance that problems have been identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately throughout the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Both the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee assist the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
iii There is a whistleblowing policy detailing the internal or external procedures through which employees are able to raise any concerns.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all Corporate Governance matters as well as working with the Chairman to ensure good information flows within the Board and its Committees.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take, if necessary, independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
51 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board and Committee attendance Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is set out below.
The Audit and Board Risk Committees held a joint meeting during the year to review the ICAAP.
Joint Audit Board Remuneration Nomination Audit Board Risk andRisk Non-Executive Chairman Simon Miller 9 10 5 5 2 2 n a n a n a Executive Directors David Nicol 10 10 n a 2 2 n a n a n a Stephen Ford 9 10 n a n a n a n a n a Andrew Westenberger 10 10 n a n a n a n a n a Michael Williams 5 5 n a n a n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors Kath Cates 6 7 n a n a 4 4 2 2 n a Ian Dewar 10 10 5 5 n a 7 7 5 5 1 1 Stephen Lamport 4 5 n a n a n a n a n a Angela Knight 10 10 5 5 2 2 7 7 5 5 1 1 Caroline Taylor 10 10 5 5 2 2 6 7 n a 1 1 Paul Wilson 10 10 5 5 2 2 n a 5 5 0 1 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
Relationship with shareholders The Group places a great deal of importance on communication with shareholders and aims to keep shareholders informed through regular communication.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with the Groups institutional investors, analysts and financial press.
Annual and interim reports are distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance and the Groups website is kept up-to-date covering all corporate activity.
The Board is provided with regular feedback following meetings with shareholders.
The Board recognises the importance of ensuring effective communication with all of its shareholders and welcomes all shareholders to its AGM, with the opportunity to ask questions formally at the meeting or informally afterwards.
Statement of compliance with the Code The Group is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010 and revised in September 2012 and September 2014.
This Corporate Governance Statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Committee Report, the Board Risk Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Strategic Report explain how the provisions set out in the Code have been applied and detail the Groups compliance with the provisions of the Code for the year.
The Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2015, except for the following: In designing schemes of performance related remuneration, the remuneration of Directors fully complies with the provisions in Section D to the Code, save for Michael Williams, who was an Executive Director until 20 February 2015, which did not fully comply with Section D. 1.1 and Schedule A of the Code.
Michael Williams variable remuneration is determined by reference to his own teams investment management performance in line with other Investment Managers within the Group.
One-third of variable remuneration above 50,000 is compulsorily deferred into shares.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 79 provides details of the Remuneration Policy and implementation of that policy for all Directors.
Louise Meads Company Secretary 1 December 2015 52
