Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS AND THEIR BIOGRAPHIES Simon Miller David Nicol, CA, Chartered FCSI Chairman Chief Executive n r Simon Miller was appointed Chairman in March 2013.
He joined the Board David Nicol is a Chartered Accountant.
He was a Director of Morgan Stanley in 2005 and became Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director in International PLC from 2004 to 2010.
He worked for Morgan Stanley for 26 2012.
He read law at Cambridge and was called to the Bar.
He subsequently years in a number of Operations and Finance roles and was appointed EMEA worked for Lazard Brothers and County Natwest.
David was a Non-Executive Director of Euroclear plc from 1998 Chairman of Dunedin LLP.
He is also Chairman of Blackrock North American to 2010.
He trained and qualified in 1980 as a Chartered Accountant with Income Trust PLC and JPMorgan Global Convertibles Income Fund.
Ernst & Young and spent two years working for KPMG in Hong Kong before joining Morgan Stanley in London in 1984.
Until September 2015 he was on the Board of the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments.
David is on the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and is a member of the Appointment Committee of the Hermes Property Unit Trust.
David joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 2012 and was subsequently appointed as Chief Executive in March 2013.
Andrew Stephen Ford, Westenberger, FCA FCSI, CAIA Finance Director Head of Wealth and Investment Management Andrew Westenberger joined the Board in January 2013.
He was Group Stephen Ford is Head of Wealth and Investment Management.
He joined Financial Director of Evolution Group PLC from 2009 until August 2011 and a Brewin Dolphin in March 2000, was appointed as a director of the operating Director of its principal subsidiary Williams fide Broe Limited.
Andrew qualified company, Brewin Dolphin Limited, in 2009 and joined the PLC Board in as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers and Lybrand, and from 2000 March 2013.
Stephen is also a Non-Executive of Tilman Brewin Dolphin.
to 2008 held various senior finance roles in London and New York with Before Brewin Dolphin he led the financial services division at the Cumberland Barclays Capital.
In September 2015, Andrew joined the Board of the Building Society and prior to that he held various management roles at the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments as a Non-Executive Director Bradford & Bingley Building Society.
Before moving into financial services, and Trustee.
Stephens early management career was in food retail with J. Sainsbury PLC.
Stephen holds the Chartered Wealth Manager and Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst designation.
46 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Angela Knight, CBE Ian Dewar, FCA MA Cantab Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director a n rk a r rk Angela Knight was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2007, Ian Dewar was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in November 2013. and as Senior Independent Director in February 2014.
She worked in the Ian retired from KPMG after a 32-year career where he was a Partner for engineering industry for many years before becoming Councillor and Chief 19 years.
During that time, he performed a wide variety of different roles Whip on Sheffield City Council from 1987 to 1992.
She entered Parliament in both within KPMG and as a Non-Executive Trustee in the Charity sector.
1992 as MP for Erewash and was Economic Secretary to the HM Treasury An accountant by training, his experience has been in Audit, Advisory, Client between 1995 and 1997.
She was Chief Executive of The Association of Relationship and Practice Management roles.
The last 27 years have been Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers from September 1997 spent working in the financial services sector.
Ian is a Non-Executive Director to December 2006 and Chief Executive of the British Bankers Association of Manchester Building Society and Arbuthnot Banking Group PLC.
She was Chief Executive of Energy UK until December 2015 and is currently a Non-Executive Director on the board of Tullett Prebon PLC and a Non-Executive member of Transport for London.
Paul Wilson, MBA Kath Cates Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director rk a n r rk Paul Wilson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December Kath Cates was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 18 December 2013.
Paul has over 25 years experience of the financial services industry 2014 and became Chair of the Board Risk Committee on 1 September 2015. and was, until February 2014, an Advisory Partner at Bain & Company Kath is a qualified lawyer and has over 25 years experience in international responsible for their financial services practice.
Paul is a Non-Executive financial services, latterly as the Chief Operating Officer of Wholesale Banking Director and Chair of the Board Risk and Reserving Committee of XL Catlin for Standard Chartered Bank, and is currently a Non-Executive Director and UK Businesses, CEO of the World Platinum Investment Council and an Chair of the Risk Committee for RSA Insurance Group plc.
Independent Director at Unigestion Holding SA.
Paul is International Chairman of Action Against Hunger, a global charity addressing the problems of acute malnutrition in children, in 35 countries worldwide.
His MBA is from Harvard Business School.
Key Caroline Taylor, a Member of the Audit Committee Non-Executive Director n Member of the Nomination Committee r Member of the Remuneration Committee rk Member of the Board Risk Committee a n r Denotes Committee Chairman Caroline Taylor was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in May 2014.
Caroline has over 25 years experience in the financial services sector with a strong background in investment management and in-depth knowledge of all aspects of investment management operations, compliance and legal issues.
Caroline was a Director of Goldman Sachs Asset Management International from 2005 to 2012 and is currently a Non-Executive Director of Ecclesiastical Insurance Office PLC.
47 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
