Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS To support our business model, as presented on pages 10 to 11, we take an integrated approach to protecting and growing wealth which combines the knowledge and skills from our employees as well as support from our loyal clients and informed investors.
We recognise the importance of maintaining good relationships with our suppliers.
We also recognise the need to have good levels of communication and positive engagement with our regulators.
Employees Resources We believe that employee engagement is key to maintaining a Investment Managers and Financial Planners motivated workforce.
To stay competitive we recruit Investment Managers and How have we engaged with our employees during 2015 Financial Planners from across the financial industry, each of whom bring their own specialist knowledge and skills to provide We conducted an employee engagement survey.
our clients with the very best service available to them.
Employees were asked a range of questions regarding their employment within the Group.
The results of the How we supported our Investment Managers and survey provided insight into the areas we could improve Financial Planners during 2015 on as an employer and were presented to the Board in September 2015.
Provided relevant financial support for training needs.
Every employee is offered the opportunity to attend a formal Provided additional resource support as required to support induction programme when starting their employment with cyclical work flows.
In addition, various training modules are set Provided access to comprehensive research provided by our for all employees with set completion dates to adhere to.
The content on the training modules varies will depend on the role of the employee.
Outcomes The Group offers study support for those employees which are We have a strong team of Investment Managers and Financial undertaking professional qualifications.
Planners with expert knowledge in their relevant areas.
Outcomes Our knowledge and expertise has been recognised in the wealth management industry.
We have won awards for the Enhanced relationships with current employees.
best discretionary service and best cautious portfolio manager Increased understanding on workplace and Group issues during the year.
Employees are kept informed of all key business developments.
Suppliers Our business model requires us to actively engage with suppliers and manage relationships with them across a broad range of services.
In cost terms, the key relationships relate to the provision of information technology, market data relating to financial assets, and property services.
We also have key relationships with banks, custodians and asset managers, who enable the Group to manage client assets, the Groups cash and to invest in investment funds on behalf of clients.
40 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 How we engaged with our suppliers during 2015 Investors The Groups vendor management policy sets out the key We recognise the importance of constructive engagement with considerations when appointing and managing a supplier, our shareholders and potential investors to ensure that the including the performance of appropriate due diligence, and business is supported by those who have invested in it.
is incorporated into the ongoing review of key suppliers on anannual basis.
How have we engaged with investors during 2015 Responded to all investor queries.
The Group maintains regular dialogue with all key suppliers.
Shareholders were given the opportunity to engage with the Outcomes Board formally at the Companys Annual General Meeting or Regular review meetings of suppliers performance against informally after the meeting.
agreed service levels are performed.
This ensures the A capital markets briefing for shareholders and potential supplier relationship is managed and maintained throughout investors was held during September 2015, where the Groups the contract life cycle, providing mutual commitment and vision was explained to shareholders and potential investors.
We held investor roadshows twice a year, once we had Our brand published our full year and half-year results announcements, which enabled us to engage with active shareholders.
We are a modern business with rich heritage and a strong identity for clients.
During the year we have worked to further Outcomes improve the recognition of the Brewin Dolphin brand through our marketing and promotional work.
Enhanced relationships with current shareholders and potential investors.
Following roadshows, the Board receives feedback from our Relationships corporate brokers and directly from shareholders regarding their major viewpoints.
Clients To ensure that we meet the needs of our clients we maintain Regulator good relationships with them.
All our Professional Advisers understand this and ensure that they engage formally with Our industry is regulated and we therefore know the importance of ensuring that we maintain a regular dialogue with regulatory bodies.
How we engaged with clients during 2015 How have we engaged with our regulators during 2015 Professional Advisers conducted comprehensive client service We have held various meetings with the Groups regulators throughout the year.
reviews and assessed the risk appetite of each client to allow a tailored service for the management of their funds.
Regular updates on the Groups activities have been provided to the regulators.
Professional Advisers have taken time to listen and understand each of our clients ethical investment requirements.
Where a Outcomes client has specific investment criteria, Professional Advisers have assessed the capability of implementation of the As a result of good engagement with our regulators, we criteria and explained the investment return impact of this are aware of the regulatory obligations which are under implementation to the client.
As the regulatory landscape changes we are able to adapt our own internal policies to ensure that we are Outcomes compliant with regulatory changes as and when they are introduced and that we identify where further changes provide Our Investment Managers are able to make informed investment decisions on behalf of clients based on their risk the opportunity for competitive advantage.
Investment service provided by our Investment Managers and advice given by Financial Planners is tailored for each individual client.
Client service feedback has shown that our services are well received.
For further information please see the Chief Executives Statement on page 17.
41 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 42 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE In this section 44 Chairmans Introduction to Governance 46 Directors and their Biographies 48 Corporate Governance Report 53 Board Risk Committee Report 56 Audit Committee Report 62 Nomination Committee Report 64 Directors Remuneration Report 80 Other Statutory Information 82 Directors Responsibilities 83 Independent Auditors Report 43 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
