Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT An effective board is composed of a mix of skills while careful succession planning ensures it remains effective from period to period.
Simon Miller Chairman Nomination Committee Role and responsibilities Chairmans overview The Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure they are The Committees key objective is to support the Board in properly constituted and balanced in terms of skills, experience fulfilling its responsibilities to ensure there is a formal, rigorous and diversity.
It does this through a formal assessment of and transparent process for the appointment of new Directors each Directors skills and experience to identify any skills to the Board, and to ensure that effective succession planning gaps that need to be addressed and to assist with Board processes are in place across the Group.
The Nomination Committee the Committee has continued In addition to this, the Committee manages the search process to review the composition of the Board during the year and for new Directors, recommends to the Board the appointment of made recommendations to the Board on the appointment new Directors and considers succession plans for the Board and of Kath Cates as a new Non-Executive Director to refresh other senior roles.
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board Committees and made recommendations to the Board for changes which utilised the experience of the newly Committee members appointed Director.
The Committee comprises Simon Miller Chairman, Angela In addition to the focus on Board and Committee composition, Knight, Caroline Taylor and Paul Wilson.
David Nicol was a the Nomination Committee has reviewed the succession plans at member until 3 November 2015.
Attendance at meetings during both Board and senior management level.
the year is set out on page 52.
Committee activities The Committee identified the need to add an additional Non-Executive Director to the Board, to improve the Executive Non-Executive balance and to refresh the Chairmanship of the Board Risk Committee.
Having previously used external search consultants Egon Zehnder to assist with the drawing up of role specifications and the identification of suitable candidates for the appointment of Paul Wilson and Ian Dewar, the Committee felt able to identify a suitable candidate for the role through its existing contact base.
Accordingly, Kath Cates was identified, interviewed, referenced and appointed.
62 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Committee discusses succession on a continuing basis.
It examines the requirements for Executive and Non-Executive Director roles and is kept informed of the work which is carried out on other senior roles within the Group.
It considers the consequences of both short and long-term change within the Board and has plans to deal with both such eventualities.
The Committee formally considered the continuing appointment of Angela Knight, the Senior Independent Director, who was appointed in July 2007, including considering whether there was any evidence that her independence has been impaired by the length of her service on the Board.
It was concluded that it is in shareholders interests for Angela to remain on the Board and that there is no evidence that her independence has been impaired.
Angela continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and her experience provides balance to the more recently appointed members of the Board.
The composition of the Committee was reviewed and David Nicol ceased to be a member on 3 November 2015, in accordance with the FCAs SYSC handbook which requires the Committee to comprise exclusively of Non-Executive Directors.
David Nicol will be a standing attendee at the Committees meetings.
Diversity The Board believes that appointments should be based on merit, compared against objective criteria, with the ultimate aim of ensuring the Board has the right skills, knowledge and experience to discharge its responsibilities properly.
Consideration of the benefits of diversity on the Board in all its aspects, including gender, is an important part of this process but not the sole reason.
The Board has 33% of women members which is in excess of the 25% aim reported last year.
One in six of the Executive Committee are female.
Further information on diversity within the Group can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 35.
Simon Miller Chairman of the Nomination Committee 1 December 2015 63 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
