Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Identification of the key risks faced by a company and the management and control of those risks is a critical activity, particularly for a company operating in the financial services industry.
Kath Cates Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Another key area of work undertaken by the Committee has Board Risk Committee been to oversee the progress of implementing the enhanced Chairmans overview Client Advice Process.
This project is continuing to improve client service and ensures that clients receive suitable advice.
Kath Cates succeeded Angela Knight as Chairman of the Committee on 1 September 2015.
As well as the regular cycle of agenda items and review of management information, the Committee has reviewed deep The identification, control, mitigation and reporting of risks dives of key risks to the business throughout the year, providing is a fundamental aspect of operating in the financial sector.
oversight of the approved risk appetite so that it remains Good practice requires a sound understanding of the Groups appropriate and that risk tolerance is set to a relevant level.
risks, our appetite for risk taking and mitigations to limit This has resulted in further enhancements to the metrics used to downsides.
This will continue to be the underlying focus of the monitor risk profile against the risk appetite.
A risk workshop was held in November 2015 to enable a more strategic review of the Groups key risks and to develop a forward agenda for the Committee for 2016.
Areas of particular focus will include working with the Board on strategic and business risks, cyber risk, regulatory change, investment Kath Cates Angela Knight governance and economic environment.
Chairman of the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Board Risk Committee Last year, the Committee focused on the development of a risk framework and much of this year has been spent implementing 1 December 2015 until 1 September 2015 the changes that flowed from that work.
The project to implement the Operational Risk Framework is nearing completion, and a new project to formalise the Conduct Risk Framework is underway.
This, combined with continued work on the Investment Governance systems and processes during 2015, has strengthened the way that the Group identifies and manages its key risks.
The Committees role has been to review and challenge this work and recommend outcomes for approval by the Board where appropriate.
53 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Role and responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee The Board Risk Committee is a standing Committee of the Board established to provide oversight of the Risk Management Framework and to assist the Board with its responsibilities for the integrity of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
It does this by: Overseeing the Groups Risk Management Infrastructure in relation to all of the material risk areas faced by the firm, including but not limited to: business and strategic risk, operational risk, regulatory risk, financial risks, conduct risk and investment governance.
Assisting the Board in establishing appropriate levels of risk appetite and tolerance as well as communicating and monitoring risk culture within the organisation.
Measuring and monitoring the Groups material risk exposures and ensuring appropriate mitigation is in place to manage them.
Overseeing and supporting the Group Risk and Compliance Director ensuring there is adequate resource and an appropriate level of independence.
Assisting the Board in managing risks associated with the Groups strategy, in particular being vigilant and alert to changes in the external risk environment.
The Committee receives a report on operational and regulatory issues at every meeting and other key matters arising from the executive Risk Management Committee RMC.
The purpose of the RMC, acting on behalf of the Group Executive Committee, is to implement the Risk Management Framework and monitor risk performance of the Group.
It assists the Board Risk Committee with analysing the integrity of the Groups internal control environment and risk management systems and ensures that the necessary Group policies are created, the risk management frameworks are developed and understood within the organisation and has a role in considering the consolidated Group capital assessments from a risk perspective.
The Board Risk Committee reports on its proceedings to the Board and on any appropriate matters to the Audit Committee.
It identifies issues where it considers action and improvements are needed and makes recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Committee has reviewed its terms of reference during the year in conjunction with the Audit Committee to ensure that the roles and responsibilities of each are clear and areas of overlap are minimised.
Terms of reference are then referred to the Board for approval.
Committee members The Committee was chaired by Angela Knight until 1 September 2015 and since then has been chaired by Kath Cates, who was appointed as a member of the Committee on 23 March 2015.
Angela remains a member of the Committee, along with a further two independent Non-Executive Directors, Ian Dewar and Paul Wilson.
Standing attendees include the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Wealth and Investment Management, and the Group Risk and Compliance Director.
Representatives from internal and external audit are invited to attend meetings, where appropriate.
Committee activities The Committee has met five times during the year and attendance at those meetings is shown on page 52 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The work of the Committee has followed an agreed annual work plan, which evolved during the year in response to changes in both the external and regulatory environments.
During the year the Committee undertook the following activities: Group risk framework Reviewed and challenged key components of the Risk Management Framework which included risk evaluation matrices, risk appetite, risk policies, risk scenarios, stress testing and the ICAAP process.
A new Conduct Risk project was launched during the year and the Committee approved the design of the Conduct Risk Framework and monitored the progress of the project against the approved plan.
54 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Investment Governance Monitored the implementation of the enhanced Client Advice Process and approved the rollout plan for the implementation of a tool to improve the monitoring of client portfolios to provide assurance that client portfolios are being managed in accordance with their investment mandate.
Key Group risks Reviewed and approved the Risk Appetite Statements and tolerances for all key risks to ensure that they remain relevant and appropriate and that there were no emerging risks that were not currently included.
Regulatory oversight Maintained oversight of regulatory risks throughout the Group and discussed the specific management actions identified to address or mitigate issues which arose during the year.
The Committee receives regular updates on upstream regulatory changes which may impact the Groups business, as well as industry regulatory enforcement notices which identify lessons relevant to the Group.
Reporting Reviewed regular reports from the Group Risk and Compliance Director covering regulatory engagement in the period, key operational risk findings, compliance monitoring activities, regulatory developments, complaints data, financial crime policy, key activities and progress against plans and resources.
ICAAP Reviewed, challenged and approved key components of the ICAAP such as the Risk Appetite Statements and the Operational Risk Scenarios as well as stress testing and reverse stress testing the business.
During November 2015, the Committee and the Audit Committee held a joint session to review and challenge the ICAAP, after which its approval was recommended to the Board.
Risk Management Framework The Groups Risk Management Framework describes the environment in which risks are identified, recorded, assigned clear ownership, analysed and measured, controlled, monitored, reported, and governed within risk appetite and tolerances set by the Board.
It also includes the ICAAP which, amongst other things, assesses and monitors the amount of capital the Group should hold against its risks.
A detailed description of the Groups Risk Management Framework is set out in the Strategic Report on page 31.
Risks and uncertainties The Groups principal risks are assessed and reviewed by the RMC, subsequently reviewed by the Board Risk Committee and then considered by the Board.
The register of principal risks is formally approved by the Board.
A description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties together with the key mitigants and controls is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 33.
The Groups principal risks are categorised as Business and Strategic Risks, Financial Risks and Operational Risks.
The Group has deployed a range of preventative and detective controls which, together with insurance, mitigate its risks.
The Committee keeps these risks under regular review to ensure that the Group manages its risk profile within its appetite and capacity for risk.
Kath Cates Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 1 December 2015 55 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
