Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee must be confident on behalf of the Board and shareholders, that internal controls are effective, ethical practices are reinforced and accounting estimates and judgements are correctly made.
Ian Dewar Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee is conscious of the Code requirements relating Audit Committee Chairmans overview to tender of external audit and plans to conduct a formal external The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on the audit tender during the course of the current partners five year Groups financial reporting, systems of internal control and the term.
The Committee has conducted a formal assessment of independence and effectiveness of the internal and the external the effectiveness of the external auditor and is satisfied that they auditor.
It has a particular focus on the annual and half year continue to provide an effective audit.
financial statements and the areas of significant management judgement used in preparation.
In addition to its regular activities the Committee explores in greater depth areas of particular interest and relevance to the Group, by means of a series of Ian Dewar deep dives.
This year these included client assets, technology Chairman of the Audit Committee and the closure of management actions taken in response to internal audit findings.
1 December 2015 One of the Committees new tasks at the end of the year was to review the Viability Statement and its underlying processes, in order to be able to recommend to the Board that the statement represents robust and realistic forecasting, taking into account the business, industry and macro-economic factors.
The Viability Statement has been included in the Strategic Report on page 29.
 LLP PwC continued as the internal auditor during 2015.
The Committee approves the Annual Internal Audit Plan and reviews regular reports from PwC on their audit findings.
There has been a particular focus during the year on ensuring there is a consistent methodology for capturing, tracking and closing actions arising from both the internal and external auditors findings and those identified internally by management or as part of the Operational Risk Framework.
56 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is a standing Committee of the Board with the purpose of assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities for the integrity of the Groups financial reporting including the effectiveness of its system of internal financial control and for monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of internal and the external auditor.
It does this through: Monitoring the integrity of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and any formal announcement relating to the Groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein, prior to their recommendation to the Board.
Reviewing the framework and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial controls.
Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor and on the approval of their remuneration and terms of engagement.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Maintaining and reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
Monitoring the work of the Groups Internal Audit function and reviewing its effectiveness.
Reviewing the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud.
Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys anti-money laundering systems and controls.
Reviewing Group operational risk reports to ensure that risks which could lead to poor or unfair client outcomes are adequately addressed and remediated.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
Committee members The current members of the Committee are the independent Non-Executive Directors Ian Dewar Chairman, Kath Cates, Angela Knight and Caroline Taylor.
Kath Cates was appointed during the year on 23 March 2015.
The composition of the Committee is reviewed by the Nomination Committee which makes recommendations for change to the Board as appropriate.
Attendance at meetings is set out on page 52.
Ian Dewar is the member of the Committee considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience as he is a Chartered Accountant and was a partner at KPMG until 2012.
Other members of the Committee have extensive experience of the financial services sector.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Committee members as appropriate, taking into account their existing experience and ongoing training to enable the Committee members to carry out their duties.
Committee activities A formal schedule of items that are to be considered at each Committee meeting is maintained to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of the Code and all areas of its remit are addressed.
The items to be reviewed are agreed by the Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members.
Each member can require reports on additional matters of interest.
The Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Wealth and Investment Management, Group Risk and Compliance Director, and the Internal Audit Partner normally attend Audit Committee meetings.
At the Committees request, other senior management are invited to present reports, as relevant.
The external auditor is also invited to attend a number of meetings.
The number of meetings and attendance for the year are on page 52 of the Corporate Governance Report.
57 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The following matters were considered by the Committee at its scheduled meetings: Financial reporting Reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Management Statements, the Half-Yearly Report and investor presentations.
Received a report from the external auditor on the financial statements including the significant audit risks, areas of audit focus and the reasonableness of the significant management judgements used in preparing the accounts.
Reviewed a letter of recommendation from the external auditor for improving the systems of internal financial control based upon their audit work for the financial year.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts on this matter.
Reviewed the Annual Report to ensure that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess performance, the business model and strategy.
Reviewed the Companys going concern assumption and Viability Statement.
External auditor Reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor.
Agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external auditor for the audit of the 30 September 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Reviewed the policy relating to non-audit services and approved non-audit services in accordance with the policy.
Internal audit Reviewed and approved the new internal audit plan for the year.
Reviewed reports from Internal Audit including management responses to the findings of the reports and their proposals.
Reviewed how issues identified for action, whether arising from Internal Audit reports or from internal control processes, were identified, progressed and reported to ensure that there was an effective framework for the management of issues within the Group.
ICAAP During November 2015, reviewed the ICAAP jointly with the Board Risk Committee and after review and challenge of the ICAAP and its key components, recommended its approval to the Board.
Client Assets Reviewed a report from the CF10a, the individual responsible for oversight and the operational effectiveness of the systems and controls that are designed to achieve compliance with CASS rules.
Reviewed the reasonable assurance report on client assets produced by Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
Control environment Received reports relating to operational risk trends, emerging risks and how management have dealt with identified risks.
Received updates on regulatory engagement.
Reviewed year end reports providing assurance on the effectiveness and robustness of the Groups system of internal controls.
Technology Received a report from the Head of Information Technology on progress with the programme to strengthen the IT Risk Management Framework and address themes arising from internal audit and operational risk reviews.
Money laundering reports Reviewed the formal report from the Groups Money Laundering Reporting Officer on the operation and effectiveness of systems and controls relating to anti-money laundering and the prevention of financial crime.
Whistleblowing Reviewed the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers and approved a revised policy.
Terms of reference Reviewed its terms of reference in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee to ensure clarity of their respective roles and responsibilities, and recommended revised terms of reference to the Board for approval.
Policies Reviewed and approved policies relating to the Groups internal control framework such as anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and counter terrorism, and market conduct.
58 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Significant issues related to the financial statements The Committee reviewed the following significant critical judgements and key estimates in connection with the Group Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015.
These issues were addressed with management at various stages during 2014 15 and during the preparation and finalisation of the Accounts.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management, the Committee is satisfied that the Accounts appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the disclosures made.
The Committee discussed these issues with the auditor during the audit planning process and during the completion of the year end audit and is satisfied that its conclusions are in line with those drawn by the auditor in relation to these issues.
Issue Key considerations Role of the Committee Conclusion Treatment and disclosure Appropriate application of accounting The Committee considered It was concluded that the application of of the disposal of standards in relation to the disposal of managements paper on accounting standards result in: Stocktrade see note Stocktrade, specifically: the accounting treatment of the non-recognition of the 4. a. i. the disposal of Stocktrade the determination of the point at consideration for the disposal of and challenged both the which control of the discontinued Stocktrade in the Accounts for the judgement and application of the operation transfers to the acquirer, year ended 30 September 2015. accountingstandards.
as set out in the terms of the sale The consideration will only be and purchase agreement, and recognised when control passes to therefore the point at which the the acquirer: consideration for the sale should the recognition of a provision for be recognised: onerous contracts in relation to the the identification of onerous discontinued operation in the current contracts, relating to the period, as there are contracts where discontinued operation, their future economic costs exceed the measurement and the point at which future economic benefits: and they should be recognised: and disclosure as set out in note 13. appropriate disclosure of the transaction.
Carrying value of goodwill The ongoing appropriateness of the The Committee satisfied itself on It was concluded that the assumptions and client relationships policy concerning the assessment of the valuation assumptions used and judgements used in determining the carrying value of goodwill and see notes 4. a. ii.
and acquisition expenses relating to client in the calculation of the fair value client relationships were appropriate 4. b. i. relationships to ensure continuing of the cash-generating units, and andreasonable.
appropriate recognition as either an considered the paper prepared operating expense or a capital cost by management on the average subject to amortisation.
client tenure and useful economic lifeexpectations.
Impairment review of goodwill and client relationships, including valuation It reviewed managements paper assumptions used in the calculation on the judgements required for the of the fair value of the relevant recognition of expenses in relation cash-generating units.
Determination of the useful economic It noted that the only additions to life of client relationships which client relationships in the period establishes the quantum of the related to revaluations of deferred amortisation expense.
consideration payments for acquisitions made in prior periods.
Assumptions underlying Determination of the actuarial The Committee considered It was concluded that the assumptions the calculation of the and judgements used in determining assumptions such as discount rate, managements paper explaining retirement benefit life expectancy of members of the the assumptions used in the the retirement benefit obligation were obligation see note 4. b. ii.
scheme and inflation rate used in the calculation, the resulting impact on calculation of the retirement benefit the deficit and the movement in the scheme deficit.
Likelihood of meeting Determination of the likelihood of The Committee considered It was concluded that the assumptions performance conditions meeting the performance conditions managements paper on the used in the calculation of the expense were appropriate and reasonable.
for the Long Term which impact the quantum of the basis of the assumptions for Incentive Plan see note expense in the period.
the likelihood of meeting the 4. b. iii.
59 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant issues related to the financial statements continued Issue Key considerations Role of the Committee Conclusion Assumptions underlying Appropriate application of The Committee reviewed It was concluded that the provisions the estimation of accounting standards and underlying managements paper explaining were appropriate and complete for provisions see note obligations that existed at the year .
the assumptions and calculation 4. b. iv.
end and that there had been no new methodologies applied in the Determination of the best estimate information following the year end determination of provisions, of the likely cash flows and other that would result in an adjustment including ensuring that the assumptions related to each type toprovisions.
obligations arising from past events.
It also satisfied itself that the procedures performed by management to identify the requirement for provisions were robust and comprehensive.
It noted that there had been a refinement of the estimation methodology for the calculation ofthe leasehold dilapidations provision and satisfied itself that there was appropriate disclosure inthe Accounts.
External auditor The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy sets out the categories of any pre-approved non-audit services which the external auditor are authorised to undertake and provides an approval process for the provision of any other non-audit services.
This policy is available to view on the Investor Relations section of the Groups website, under the Board Committees subsection.
The Board generally only uses the auditor for audit and related activities.
If there is a business case to use the external auditor for the provision of non-audit services, prior permission is required from the Committee, which will review the proposal to ensure that it will not impact the auditors objectivity and independence.
The majority of tax advisory and similar work is carried out by another major accountancy firm.
An analysis of auditors remuneration is provided in note 9 to the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee assess the effectiveness of the external auditor on an annual basis, taking account of the following factors: Factor Assessment The audit partner The extent to which the partner demonstrates a strong understanding of the business and industry and the challenges faced by the business, and the length of time acting as the lead engagement partner.
The audit team The extent to which the audit team understand the business and industry and are properly resourced andexperienced.
The audit approach That the audit approach is discussed with management and targets the significant issues early, is communicated properly, is appropriate for the business and industry and includes an appropriate level of materiality.
The role of management That information provided by management is timely and correct with proper supporting papers, and that accounting systems and internal controls work effectively.
The communications and formal That management and the Committee are kept appropriately informed as the audit progresses and that the reporting bythe auditor formal report is appropriate and contains all relevant material matters.
The independence and That the auditor complies with the Financial Reporting Councils ethical standards, has the required degree of objectivityof theauditor objectivity including their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and that the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor does not compromise independence.
60 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Following its review of the effectiveness of the 2014 15 audit, the Committee is satisfied that the external auditor, Deloitte, continues to provide an effective audit and recommended to the Board that reappointment of the auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
In accordance with UK regulations, the Groups auditor adheres to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead engagement partner is appointed in place of the previous lead engagement partner once he has completed a term of five years in that role.
The lead audit partner was first appointed for the 2013 14 audit.
The Committee has considered the UK Corporate Governance Code provision for companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years and also the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on aligning the timing of such re-tenders with audit engagement partner rotation.
It has also noted the transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering to fit the five-yearly cycle of partner rotation.
The Committees current intention is that it will initiate a re-tendering process before the end of the current audit partners rotation 2017 2018.
This will be kept under review and the Committee will use its regular reviews of auditor effectiveness to assess the most appropriate time for such a re-tender during that period.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the external auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of replacement external auditor.
The external auditor meets privately with the Committee at least twice a year without senior executive management being present.
Internal audit The internal audit function for the financial year ended 30 September 2015 was conducted by PwC, who have provided internal audit services to the Group since January 2014.
The Committee conducts a formal assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal Auditor annually.
Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts The Committee has performed a review of the report and accounts to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
What is meant by these terms, and the questions that the Committee considers as part of this review, are shown below: Term Description Questions Fair Not exhibiting any bias Is the whole story being presented?
Reasonable or impartial Have any sensitive material areas been omitted?
Performed according to the rules Balanced Even-handed Is there a good level of consistency between the front and back sections of the Annual Report?
Taking account of all sides on their merits without prejudice or favouritism Does the reader get the same message from reading the two sections independently?
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reports and the significant issues reported in the Audit Committee Report consistent with the disclosures of key estimates and uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
Understandable Having a meaning or nature that can Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the be understood Annual Report?
Able to be accepted as normal Is the report written in accessible language?
Are the messages clearly drawn out?
Ensuring that this standard is met requires continuous assessment of the financial reporting issues affecting the Group on a year round basis, in addition to a focused review as part of the Annual Report and Accounts production process.
Ian Dewar Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 December 2015 61 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
