68 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee assesses annually whether it is appropriate to The Audit Committees main functions are: prepare the Companys financial statements on a going concern basis, To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems and makes its recommendation to the Board.
The Boards conclusions on which the Company is reliant.
are set out in the Report of the Directors.
To consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
During 2015, the Audit Committee considered the latest revisions to the To monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial statements UK Corporate Governance Code, including the requirement to include of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, a viability statement in the Annual Report.
The statement is set out on the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and the page 45.
To meet the independent Auditor of the Company to review their As explained below, the Audit Committee considers carefully the internal proposed audit programme of work and the subsequent Audit Report control systems.
The Company relies heavily on third party suppliers.
and to assess the effectiveness of the audit process and the levels of The Audit Committee noted in its report last year there were several fees paid in respect of both audit and non-audit work.
changes in its, and its Investment Managers, third party suppliers, notably To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, a new Administrator and, for the first time, a Depositary.
The Committee re-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to negotiate their continues to monitor the service and control levels pursuant to these remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and non-audit work.
During 2015, the Audit Committee again paid particular To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, attention to the developing threat of cyber-crime.
objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The Committee reviewed special dividends received to determine The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year.
It operates within their allocation to the revenue or capital account in the Statement defined terms of reference.
Composition of Audit Committee Given the nature of the Companys investments, substantial funds The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board, being independent can be received from corporate actions at investee companies.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant implementation of the corporate actions can be complex and challenging.
financial experience and two are Chartered Accountants.
The Committee investigates any errors and aims to ensure there is no loss to the Company and that the systems are improved to eliminate Significant Issues such errors.
In planning its own work, and reviewing the audit plan of the Auditor, the Audit Committee takes account of the most significant issues and The Company suffers withholding tax on many of its dividends received, risks, both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Companys some of which is irrecoverable.
The Committee aims to ensure any financial statements.
recoverable withholding tax is received in a timely manner.
However, such recovery can be difficult in some jurisdictions, and the Company The valuation of the investment portfolio is a significant risk factor.
has incurred professional service fees in this area.
In particular, in the However, 100% of the portfolio can be verified against daily market prices.
current year, we have sought with the assistance of Ernst and Young LLP to recover some significant French withholding tax.
A further significant risk control issue is to ensure that the investment portfolio accounted for in the financial statements reflects physical In March 2015, the Companys holding in Westgrund was acquired by ownership of the relevant securities.
The Company uses the services Adler.
The transaction completed, and 14.3 million plus Adler shares of an independent Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA to hold the were received by the Company on 3 July 2015.
However, the Custodian assets of the Company.
The investment portfolio is reconciled regularly reversed this payment and instead 10.5 million was credited to the by the Administrator to the Custodians records, and that reconciliation Company's account.
The Company has been informed that this was is also reviewed by the Auditor.
In July 2014, the Company appointed a because the original payment was paid by the sub-custodian gross, in Depositary J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, whose responsibilities include error, since, under German regulations, tax should have been withheld, oversight of the safekeeping of the Companys assets.
only some of which would be recoverable.
The Board understands that this tax treatment is currently being reviewed by the German Federal Ministry Financial statements issued by the Company need to be fair, balanced of Finance.
The Company expects to recover 1.6 million.
If it is deemed and understandable.
The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report that no tax should have been withheld, a further 2.1 million would be as a whole and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee recoverable by the Company.
Given the substance of the transaction, is aware that several sections of the Annual Accounts are not subject all income and related tax have been treated as capital items.
The to formal statutory audit, including the Strategic Report and Investment circumstances surrounding the original error remain under investigation Managers review.
The checking process for the financial information in by the Company.
The Board will monitor any decisions made by the these sections is reviewed by the Committee, and by the Auditor.
German Federal Ministry of Finance.
The Companys half-yearly report is approved by the Audit Committee prior to publication, and is also reviewed by the Auditor.
69 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Internal Controls The Audit Committee believes that the Company does not require an The Board through the Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that internal audit function, principally because the Company delegates its daysuitable internal controls systems to prevent and detect fraud and error to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Committee, are designed and implemented by the third party service providers to and which provide control reports on their operations at least annually.
the Company and is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of such controls.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process External Audit Process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Auditor.
The the Company and subsidiary in line with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Auditor provides a planning report in advance of the annual audit, a report Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business on the annual audit, and a report on their review of the half-year financial Reporting published in September 2014 and the FRCs Guidance on Audit statements.
The Committee has an opportunity to question and challenge Committees published in September 2012.
This process has been in place the Auditor in respect of each of these reports.
for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this report, and accords with the guidance.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated In addition, at least once a year, the Audit Committee has an opportunity the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the to discuss any aspect of the Auditors work with the Auditor in the absence Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The risks of any of the Investment Manager.
failure of such controls are identified in a Risk Matrix and a schedule of Key Risks, which are regularly reviewed by the Board and which identify the After each audit, the Audit Committee reviews the audit process and likelihood and severity of the impact of such risks and the controls in place considers its effectiveness.
The review of the 2014 audit concluded that to minimise the probability of such risks occurring.
the audit process had worked well, and that the significant issues had been adequately addressed.
The following are the key components which the Company has in place to provide effective internal control: Auditor Assessment and Independence The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specify The Companys external Auditor is Ernst & Young LLP.
Ernst & Young levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on compliance with has been the Companys Auditor since 1993.
During 2013, the Audit these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Committee conducted a full review of the services provided by the Auditor, The Board has a procedure to ensure that the Company can continue and the related fees, and concluded that there was no need, at that to be approved as an investment company by complying with sections stage, to conduct a competitive tender.
The Committee is satisfied that 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. those conclusions remain valid.
However, the Committee is mindful of the The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and forthcoming reforms relating to auditor tenure.
The current Senior Statutory management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys Auditor is due to rotate after the 2017 audit and the Committee currently activities and review its performance.
expects to conduct a tender for audit services during 2017.
The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other third party service providers, and adherence to them, are During the year, the Audit Quality Review AQR team within the Financial regularly reviewed.
Reporting Council FRC reported to the Audit Committee that it had The services and controls at the Investment Manager and at other third concluded a review of the audit of the Company performed by Ernst & party suppliers are reviewed at least annually.
The Audit Committee Young in respect of the year to 30 September 2013.
The FRCs activities receive and review assurance reports on the controls of the Custodian include the independent inspection of the overall quality of the auditing and Administrator undertaken by professional service providers and function in the UK, and the AQR team carries out a number of reviews of reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee carefully considered the The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the Company is recovering AQRs findings, and discussed them with Ernst & Young.
The findings withholding tax on overseas dividends to the fullest extent possible.
were constructive, and were noted for subsequent years, but were not The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews considered significant in the context of the audit as a whole.
The Investment Manager also employs a compliance consultant.
Compliance reports are submitted The Committee also reviewed Ernst & Youngs independence policies and to the Committee at least annually.
procedures including quality assurance procedures.
It was considered that those policies and procedures remained fit for purpose.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk Fees payable to the Auditor of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only Total fees payable to the Auditor were 75,000 2014: 55,000.
This provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement significant increase was primarily due to an exercise to recover withholding or loss.
tax on dividends received from France.
As neither the Company nor the subsidiary has any employees, the Of the total fees, the fees for audit services were 30,000 2014: 34,000.
Company does not have a whistleblowing policy and procedure in place.
The reduction in fee reflected an increase in the verification work on the The Company delegates its main functions to third party providers, each Annual Report as a whole undertaken by the Investment Manager.
of whom report on their policies and procedures to the Audit Committee.
70 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board, and does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
All non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditor must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.
The cost of non-audit services provided by the Auditor for the financial year ended 30 September 2015 was 45,000 2014: 21,000.
The cost of the French withholding tax recovery exercise was 22,000.
Other costs comprised 13,000 in relation to tax compliance: 7,500 in relation to the half-year review: and 2,500 in relation to other services, including the audit reports required in respect of the Debenture.
These non-audit services are assurance related, and the Committee firmly believes Ernst & Young are best placed to provide them on a cost effective basis to the benefit of shareholders.
The non-audit fees were exceptionally high this year due to the French withholding tax exercise.
The fees for non-audit services are considered not material in the context of the accounts as a whole.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst and Young remains independent.
The Committee confirms that the non-audit work undertaken by the Companys Auditor satisfies, and does not compromise, the tests of the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
Given the assurance nature of the fees, and the specific work required in respect of withholding tax and taxation services, the cost of these services are considered by the Committee to be proportionate in relation to the fees for audit services.
AS Robson Audit Committee Chairman 6 November 2015
