Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information omination Committee report The Nomination Committee is responsible for the regular review of The omination Committee is focused the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the board and for giving consideration to on evaluating the directors and succession planning for directors and, if requested by the board, for other examining the skills and attributes senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using external search consultants where necessary, candidates to fill board vacancies as and needed of board members.
It is also when they arise, for making recommendations to the board in relation thereto and for keeping under review the leadership needs of the responsible for identifying suitable company, both executive and non-executive.
candidates for new director positions.
The Nomination Committee also reviews the time required of the non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside board meetings.
Diversity The boards policy on diversity is, as it has been in the past, to seek to appoint the best qualified person to a particular role regardless of gender or other diversity criteria and therefore it has not adopted any measureable objectives in relation thereto.
Work of the Nomination Committee Membership and attendance The Nomination Committee met four times during the year and the work The membership and attendance record of the Nomination Committee undertaken included: during the year was as follows: an evaluation of the structure, size and composition of the board as Meetings a whole in the light of the 2014 board performance evaluation Meetings eligible attended to attend consideration of the contributions and effectiveness of the nonR D Kent Chairman 5 5 executive directors seeking election or re-election at the 2014 annual 1 H Y H Bol 3 4 general meeting, prior to giving recommendations for their elections 1 S J Bridges 3 4 or re-elections 1 The Hon C W Cayzer 3 4 C H Gregson 4 5 a recommendation to the board that Mr Bol be appointed a director 2 of the company D C Stewart 0 0 R B Woods 4 5 the conduct of a search for additional independent non-executive 1 W P Wyatt 4 4 directors, concluding with recommendations to the board that 3 C M Allen-Jones 5 5 Mr Stewart and Mrs Jemmett-Page be appointed.
4 R Goblet dAlviella 0 1 The Nomination Committee engaged an external search consultancy, 1.
Mr Bol, Mr Bridges, The Hon C W Cayzer and Mr Wyatt were appointed members Odgers Berndtson, to assist in the search that culminated in the of the committee on 17 July 2014. appointments of Mr Stewart and Mrs Jemmett-Page.
Mr Stewart was appointed a member of the committee on 17 March 2015.
Mr Allen-Jones retired from the committee on 17 March 2015. has no other connection with the company.
Mr Goblet dAlviella retired from the committee on 25 June 2014. consultancy was not used in relation to the appointment of Mr Bol, who was known to the company by virtue of his role at Sofina.
Rod Kent Chairman of the Nomination Committee 27 May 2015 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 35
