Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Governance Committee report The Governance Committee keeps under review corporate governance The Governance Committee monitors issues relating to the company and is responsible for the monitoring and review of the ability of each director to act in the interests of shareholders and reviews the ability of each director as a whole and to exercise independence of judgement free from to act in the interests of shareholders relationships or circumstances which are likely to, or could appear to, affect his or her judgement.
The Governance Committee also reviews as a whole and to exercise conflict or potential conflict situations relating to directors, which may require the prior authorisation of the board under the Companies Act independence of udgement.
2006, and makes recommendations to the board as to whether such conflict or potential conflict situations should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions, such as duration or scope of the authority, should be attached.
The Governance Committee reviews annually all authorisations previously granted by the board to ensure that they remain appropriate.
If the Governance Committee believes that a director may be subject to a conflict of interest which may prejudice his or her ability to exercise independence of judgement, it may make such recommendations to the board as it may think fit, including that the director abstains from participating in any decision of the board or any of its committees on the matter concerned.
Work of the Governance Committee The Governance Committee met three times during the year and the Membership and attendance principal matters it considered were: The membership and attendance record of the Governance Committee the review and approval of the Corporate governance report for the during the year was as follows: year ended 31 March 2014 Meetings Meetings eligible the review of potential conflict situations notified by directors in attended to attend accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the making of 1 C H Gregson Chairman 3 3 recommendations to the board in relation thereto 2 S J Bridges 0 0 R B Woods 2 3 consideration of the influence of the Cayzer Concert Party on 3 C M Allen-Jones 3 3 Caledonias board and whether it was in the general interest of the non-Cayzer Concert Party shareholders, with the conclusion that it was 1.
Mr Gregson replaced Mr Allen-Jones as chairman of the committee on 17 March 2015. the review and approval of agreements entered into by the company 2.
Mr Bridges was appointed a member of the committee on 17 March 2015. with The Cayzer Trust Company Limited and the Trustee of the 3.
Mr Allen-Jones retired as a member of the committee on 17 March 2015.
Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust incorporating independence provisions to comply with the new Listing Rule requirements for premium listed companies with controlling shareholders.
Charles Gregson Chairman of the Governance Committee 27 May 2015 38 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc
