Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report Statement of compliance Caledonia recognises the importance The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and this report describes how the company has complied with The UK of good corporate governance, which Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2012 for the duration reuire s the board to consider the of the reporting period.
processes, controls and limits within A copy of The UK Corporate Governance Code is available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
uk Our-Work which the company should operate Codes-Standards Corporate-governance .
and define a working framework The board that is clear and understandable to Overall responsibility and operation The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the everyone involved in the management company and for supervising its affairs.
It sets the companys strategy, of the company.
ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable the company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also sets the companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
It aims to provide leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and appropriately managed.
Membership and attendance To assist its operation, the board has adopted a Schedule of Authorities The board held eight scheduled meetings during the year.
Attendance which sets out those matters which it specifically reserves for its own of the directors was as follows: decision and those which are delegated to board committees and to Meetings executive management.
Matters reserved for the boards own decision Meetings eligible include the following: Director attended to attend R D Kent 8 8 the appointment and removal of directors of the company, as W P Wyatt 8 8 prescribed by the companys articles of association, and of certain S A King 8 8 senior executive positions J M B Cayzer-Colvin 8 8 the terms of reference of board committees and the membership 1 H Y H Bol 4 5 thereof S J Bridges 7 8 the companys strategy Hon C W Cayzer 7 8 C H Gregson 8 8 annual budgets R B Woods 7 8 2 the companys systems of risk management and internal control D C Stewart 1 1 3 C M Allen-Jones 8 8 treasury policies, banking counterparties and counterparty 4 R Goblet dAlviella 2 3 exposure limits 1.
Mr Bol was appointed a director on 25 June 2014. directors remuneration and terms of appointment 2.
Mr Stewart was appointed a director on 17 March 2015.
Mr Allen-Jones retired from the board on 17 March 2015. significant capital transactions 4.
Mr Goblet dAlviella retired from the board on 25 June 2014. charitable donations and political donations.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separated and clearly defined in the Schedule of Authorities.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board to ensure that it carries out its role effectively and for succession planning.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the implementation of the boards strategy and policies and the management of the companys activities, other than those matters specifically reserved to the board.
The Schedule of Authorities is reviewed annually by the board.
All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board meetings to enable them to discharge their duties and also have unlimited access to senior management should further information be required.
Presentations by pool managers and other senior executives are regularly given to the board, as well as occasionally by senior executives of investee companies.
32 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Appointment, induction and training The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed annually and The company complies with the recommendation of The UK Corporate are available on the companys website.
Governance Code that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be Other committees subject to annual election by shareholders.
Various other committees have been established with responsibility for specific areas of the companys activities, other than matters reserved Following changes in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules to the board as a whole, as follows: introduced in May 2014, the election of those directors determined by the board to be independent under the UK Corporate Governance The Administrative Committee of the board has been established to Code must be subject to the approval of both all shareholders of the deal with administrative matters of a routine nature requiring board company and separately those shareholders who are not controlling approval or matters which are reserved to the board, but for which shareholders, being the Cayzer Concert Party.
board approval has already been given in principle.
The Administrative Committee meets when required and comprises any two directors.
On appointment, new directors are offered induction and training considered appropriate by the board, and subsequently as necessary, The Executive Committee meets when required and is responsible and the annual performance evaluation of the board encompasses the for matters relating to the day to day management of the companys identification of any individual training needs of board members so that, business, other than where delegated to other committees.
It is chaired if necessary, these can be reviewed by the Chairman with the directors by the Chief Executive and other members comprise the Chairman, concerned.
The directors receive briefings at board meetings on the executive directors, the heads of the pools of capital and the regulatory and other issues relevant to the company and its business Company Secretary.
sector and, in addition, may attend external courses to assist in their The Investment Management Committee meets weekly and considers professional development.
matters relating to the companys investment portfolio and monitors Board composition the companys cash requirements and its net asset value per share The biographies of the directors appear on pages 30 and 31. total return performance.
The Investment Management Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and other members comprise the The board currently comprises ten directors.
Excluding the Chairman, entire investment team, the Company Secretary and the Deputy three of the directors are executive and six are non-executive.
considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent, other than The Hon C W Cayzer, who was an executive director prior to becoming The Investment Approvals Committee considers and formally approves non-executive.
In assessing Mr Bols independence, the board took new investments and proposed realisations.
This committee meets account of his position as Chief Executive Officer of Sofina SA, whose when required, is chaired by the Chief Executive and other members wholly-owned subsidiary, Rebelco SA, has a 5.1% shareholding in comprise the Chairman, the executive directors, the heads of the pools Caledonia.
Mr Bols position at Sofina has not given rise to any conflicts of capital and the Company Secretary.
of interest and his circumstances very much accord with the importance The Compliance Committee meets weekly to monitor the companys that Caledonia attaches to its own executives having board positions at, ongoing compliance with the requirements for investment trust status or close contact with, investee companies.
On 13 April 2015, ICAP plc, and to approve all investment activity from an investment trust where Mr Gregson is non-executive Chairman, announced that, subject to compliance perspective.
It also monitors the potential impact of legal, approval by the Financial Conduct Authority, Mr Bridges would be joining tax and regulatory developments.
The Compliance Committee is that company as Group Finance Director.
The board does not consider chaired by the Company Secretary and other members comprise the that Mr Bridges new role, which will not take effect until after 31 August Finance Director, the Heads of Tax, Treasury and Finance, the Group 2015, will have any influence on either his, or Mr Gregsons, ability to Financial Controller and the Deputy Company Secretary.
exercise independent judgement in relation to the affairs of Caledonia, which has no other connection with ICAP.
Mr Woods has also had past The Challenge Committee formally reviews valuations of all of the connections with the company and in particular its former Chairman, companys investments at each half-year and full-year.
It is chaired by the late Peter Buckley, through business dealings between P&O Steam the Chief Executive and other members comprise the Finance Director, Navigation Company and British & Commonwealth Shipping Company, the Head of Finance and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The in which Caledonia was a substantial shareholder, during the 1970s and meetings are observed by representatives from KPMG LLP.
early 1980s and remained a friend of Mr Buckleys until his death in 2008.
Board performance evaluation The board does not consider that these past relationships affect his The board conducts an annual evaluation of its performance and that independence given the time that has passed since Mr Woods last had of its committees and, in accordance with best practice, engages an business dealings with British & Commonwealth and the fact that independent third party facilitator to assist in this process every three Mr Woods did not join Caledonias board until some three years after years.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, the evaluation of the board Mr Buckleys death.
as a whole and of its committees was undertaken internally, led by the Caledonia has also announced that Shonaid Jemmett-Page will be joining Chairman, and was conducted by inviting individual board members to the board from 1 July 2015.
The board has determined that she will also complete questionnaires regarding the operation and effectiveness of be an independent director.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was Caledonias audit the board and its committees, the responses from which were collated partner at KPMG Audit Plc from November 1995 to March 2001.
The by the Company Secretary and discussed at a special session of the board.
board does not consider that this affects her independence given the length of time that has elapsed since this role ended and also the fact that The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by the Senior none of the current board members, other than The Hon Charles Cayzer, Independent Non-Executive Director and involved individual discussions were in post whilst she was audit partner.
with other members of the board.
The Chairman considered the performance of the non-executive directors and that of the executive Board committees directors was reviewed by the Chairman and the non-executive directors, The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to the with the Chief Executive also present for the discussion on the other following standing committees the Nomination Committee, the executive directors.
Audit Committee, the Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Further details of the work of each of these committees and their membership during the year are set out on pages 35, 36, 38 and 39 respectively.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 33 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report continued The results of the 2015 evaluation process were presented in a report Relations with controlling shareholders to the board.
The conclusion was that the board operated in a unified Following recent changes to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing manner, but with a preparedness to provide an appropriate level of Rules, where a premium listed company has a controlling shareholder challenge to, and when necessary veto of, management proposals.
or shareholders being a person or persons acting in concert who exercise Actions agreed for improvement included the provision of more general or control 30% of more of the companys voting rights, the company is background information on macro-economic issues for board members required to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is and periodic reviews of the process involved in reaching key decisions intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder undertakes to comply taken to evaluate its effectiveness and whether any lessons could with certain independence provisions, namely that: be learned.
1. transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder and Directors conflicts of interest or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length and on Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a normal commercial terms: situation where he has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest which 2. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the companys interests.
The any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed company Companies Act 2006 however allows directors of public companies to from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows 3. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply when the directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict The board confirms that agreements specified under the Listing Rules of interest.
First, only independent directors, being those who have no as described above which were required to be in place by 17 November interest in the matter being considered, are able to take the relevant 2014 were entered into by the company on 30 October 2014 with The decision and, second, in taking the decision, the directors must act in Cayzer Trust Company Limited Cayzer Trust and separately with the a way which they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote Trustee of the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust the success of the company.
The directors are able to impose time limits Employee Share Trust, which is deemed by the Panel on Takeovers or conditions when giving authorisations if they think this is appropriate.
and Mergers to form part of the Cayzer Concert Party.
As at 26 May 2015, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements of the report, the Cayzer Concert Party held 48.49% of Caledonias voting rights.
Companies Act 2006 in relation to directors conflicts of interest.
Each Under the terms of its agreement, Cayzer Trust undertook to procure the new director on appointment is required to declare any potential conflict compliance with the independence provisions of all of the other members situations, which may relate to him or her, or his or her connected of the Cayzer Concert Party, other than the Employee Share Trust.
These are reviewed by the board and, if necessary, also by the Governance Committee, which then considers whether these situations The board confirms that, between 30 October 2014 and 26 May 2015, should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions to such authority being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual should be attached.
report: Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on conflicts of 1. the company has complied with the independence provisions included interest to ensure that all directors disclose any new potential conflict in the agreements with Cayzer Trust and the Employee Share Trust situations.
These are then reviewed, again if necessary also by the 2. so far as the company is aware, the independence provisions included Governance Committee, and authorised by the board as appropriate.
in the agreements have been complied with by Cayzer Trust and the A register of directors conflicts of interest is maintained by the Company Employee Share Trust Secretary and is reviewed annually by the Governance Committee.
3. so far as the company is aware, the procurement obligation included Relations with shareholders in the agreement with Cayzer Trust has been complied with by The company welcomes dialogue with investors in order to achieve a that company.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly hold meetings with institutional investors, private client stockbrokers and fund managers.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Rod Kent Director is also available to attend some of these meetings.
Any views Chairman of the board put forward by shareholders are reported back to the board, which periodically also receives presentations from the brokers on shareholder 27 May 2015 feedback and the general market perception of the company.
In addition, the annual general meeting provides a forum for shareholders to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
34 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc
