Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information ther governance matters Dividends Substantial interests An interim dividend of 13.8p per share 2014 13.4p was paid on As at 31 March 2015, the following had notified the company that they 8 January 2015 and the board has proposed that a final dividend of held 3% or more of the voting rights of the company: 36.8p per share 2014 35.7p be paid on 6 August 2015.
This will result Number Percentage in total dividends for the year of 50.6p per share 2014 49.1p.
of voting of voting rights rights Share capital structure The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 19,623,769 35.4% The company has two classes of share capital ordinary shares of 5p each 1 Rebelco SA 2,847,344 5.1% and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
Rebelco SA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sofina SA.
The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share There have been no changes in the substantial interests notified to the at meetings of the company.
All voting rights are however suspended company up to the date of this report.
in respect of any of the companys shares that are held in treasury or Employee share trust by group companies.
The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires and holds The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are not ordinary shares in the company for subsequent transfer to employees redeemable.
They carry the right to a fixed cumulative preference exercising options under the companys executive share option scheme dividend of 1% per annum exclusive of any associated tax credit of the and the performance share scheme or calling for awards vesting under nominal value of such deferred ordinary shares, being 0.05p per share, or the companys deferred bonus plan.
The voting rights of shares held 4,000 in aggregate, for all such shares currently in issue.
The company is by the trust are exercisable by the independent trustee.
The trustee has required to pay the dividend to the extent that it has distributable profits.
waived all dividends payable in respect of the ordinary shares held by the On a winding-up or other return of capital, the deferred ordinary shares trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends.
At 31 March 2015, carry the right to the payment of the amount paid up on such shares only the trust held 273,640 ordinary shares.
after holders of the ordinary shares have received the sum of 100,000 in Restrictions on voting rights respect of each ordinary share.
All of the deferred ordinary shares are The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled to held by Sterling Industries PLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Caledonia.
attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise any other right At 31 March 2015, 55,381,017 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 deferred conferred by membership in relation to general meetings of the company ordinary shares were in issue.
The ordinary shares therefore represented in respect of some or all of the shares held by him, if he or any person approximately 87%, and the deferred ordinary shares approximately 13%, with an interest in such shares has been duly served with a notice under of the total issued share capital by nominal value.
Of the ordinary shares section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed in issue at 31 March 2015, 3,000 shares were held by a group company.
period in supplying to the company the information required or, in As stated above, all voting rights are suspended on these shares.
purported compliance with such a notice, has made a statement which is false or inadequate in a material particular.
During the year, the company purchased and cancelled 30,000 ordinary shares at a total cost of 0.6m.
The companys issued share capital after Agreements which may restrict the transfer of shares or these transactions, as at 26 May 2015, being the latest practicable date exercise of voting rights prior to signature of these accounts, was 55,381,017 ordinary shares and The company is not aware of any arrangements which may restrict the 8,000,000 deferred ordinary shares.
transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any voting rights.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares Authority to allot and purchase shares There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the companys shares, At the annual general meeting of the company held on 17 July 2014, although the articles of association contain provisions whereby the shareholders granted to the directors authority to allot ordinary shares up directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is to a nominal amount of 923,516, representing approximately one-third not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent dealings in the of the ordinary share capital then in issue, with authority to allot share from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may additional ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 923,517, representing also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is a approximately a further one-third of the ordinary share capital then lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office or at such other place as in issue, by way of pre-emptive rights issues only, in accordance with the directors may appoint, accompanied by the certificate for the shares guidance issued at that time by the Association of British Insurers.
The to which it relates and such other evidence as the directors may directors were further authorised to issue ordinary shares up to a nominal reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the amount of 138,527 other than pro rata to existing ordinary shareholders.
transfer: b in respect of only one class of shares: and c in favour of These authorities last until 17 October 2015 or, if earlier, the conclusion of not more than four transferees.
the next annual general meeting.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a shareholder has not supplied information to the company in default of a request duly served under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least 0.25% of the class of shares concerned.
54 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information At the annual general meeting held on 17 July 2014, shareholders also Directors indemnity granted authority for the company to make market purchases of up to Each of the directors has the benefit, under the companys articles of 5,541,100 of its own ordinary shares, being approximately 10% of the association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies ordinary share capital then in issue, at a price not more than the higher Act 2006, against any liability incurred by him or her for negligence, of a 5% greater than the average of the middle market quotations for default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs such ordinary shares during the five business days preceding any such of the company.
purchase: and b the higher of i the price of the last independent trade Appointment and removal of directors and the articles in such ordinary shares: and ii the highest current independent bid of association relating thereto on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, The appointment and removal of directors is governed by the companys nor at a price less than 5p, being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
articles of association and prevailing company law.
This authority lasts until 17 October 2015 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
At the same time, shareholders who The articles of association provide that at every annual general meeting were not members of the Cayzer family concert party Cayzer Concert one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, the number Party gave their approval for a waiver by the Panel on Takeovers and nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and therefore be required Mergers of the obligation that could arise on the Cayzer Concert Party to seek re-election by shareholders.
New directors may be appointed by under Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make a the board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the next annual general offer for Caledonia on the implementation by the company of general meeting of the company following their appointment.
However, the above authority to purchase its own shares.
The approval was subject to comply with the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code, the to the maximum percentage of voting rights in which the Cayzer Concert company requires that all directors should be subject to annual election Party is interested not exceeding 49.9% as a result of purchases by the by shareholders.
Shareholders may also appoint new directors by company.
This waiver expires on 17 October 2015 or, if earlier, the ordinary resolution.
The articles of association limit the number of conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
directors to not less than two and not more than twelve, unless the shareholders resolve otherwise.
Change of control rights There are no special control rights in relation to the companys shares.
Following changes to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules introduced in May 2014, the election of those directors determined by Options granted under the companys executive share option scheme the board to be independent under The UK Corporate Governance Code and its performance share scheme and awards made under its deferred must be subject to the approval of both all shareholders of the company bonus plan may become exercisable or vest as a result of a change of and separately those shareholders who are not controlling shareholders, control, although the number of shares comprised in those options or being the Cayzer Concert party.
The service contracts of certain directors and other senior executives also contain provisions whereby a liquidated sum Customers and suppliers is payable by the company in the event of termination within one year The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the terms following a change of control.
of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
The group will abide by those terms on condition that it is satisfied that the supplier Further details of these change of control rights are set out in the has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms directors remuneration report.
The group does not follow any code or statement on Investment trust status payment practice.
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has confirmed that Caledonia Going concern has investment trust status for all financial periods from 1 April 2012.
The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Annual general meeting its future development, performance and position are set out in the The eighty-sixth annual general meeting of the company will be held at Chairmans and Chief Executives report on pages 2 to 5 and the Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN on Thursday, investment review on pages 10 to 21.
The financial position of the group, 16 July 2015 at 11.30 am.
The notice of the annual general meeting and its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described details of all of the resolutions to be put to shareholders are set out in in the financial review on pages 22 and 23.
In addition, note 22 to the a separate circular sent to shareholders at the same time as this annual financial statements includes the groups capital management policies report.
and procedures and processes for managing market risk and exposures to currency risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Directors The directors of the company are shown on pages 30 and 31.
All of the The group has cash resources and committed bank facilities available directors served throughout the year other than Mr H Y H Bol and to meet existing and new investment commitments.
As a consequence, Mr D C Stewart, who were appointed on 25 June 2014 and 17 March 2015 the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage business respectively.
In addition, Mr C M Allen-Jones and Mr R Goblet dAlviella risks successfully.
served as directors until their retirements from the board on 17 March The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate 2015 and 25 June 2014 respectively.
Mrs S C R Jemmett-Page will join resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the board with effect from 1 July 2015.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Auditor Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the company and to authorise the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
A description of how the Audit Committee ensures the objectivity and independence of the auditor is set out on page 37 within the Audit Committee report.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 55 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information ther governance matters continued Cross references to information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R. To comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 C, the following table provides references to where relevant information required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
Listing Rule Required information Location 9.8.
4 R 5 Details of any arrangements under which a director has waived or Directors remuneration report page 48.
Waiver by Mr Bol agreed to waive any emoluments from the company or any of all non-executive director fees to which he would otherwise subsidiary undertaking.
4 R 6 Where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details As above.
of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
4 R 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has Other governance matters page 54.
Waiver of all waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
dividends by the trustee of the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends.
6 R 13 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, As above.
details of such waiver together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
4 R 14 a A statement made by the board that the listed company has Corporate governance report page 34.
entered into an agreement with a controlling shareholder under Listing Rule 9.2.
4 R 14 c A statement made by the board that: As above.
1. the listed company has complied with the independence provisions included in any agreement with a controlling shareholder entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a 2. so far as the listed company is aware, the independence provisions included in any agreement with a controlling shareholder entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a have been complied with during the period under review by the controlling shareholder or any of its associates 3. so far as the listed company is aware, the procurement obligation as set out in Listing Rule 9.2.
2 BR 2 a included in any agreement entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a has been complied with during the period under review by a controlling shareholder.
56 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc
