Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Audit Committee report The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the The Audit Committee plays a financial statements of the company and any announcements relating thereto and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements significant role in ensuring that the contained therein.
In addition, it oversees the relationship with the company fi snancial statements are external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal control and risk management procedures and properly prepared and that the system considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
of controls that is in place is effective The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of independent nonexecutives directors, met three times in the year ended 31 March 2015, and appropriate.
in May and November 2014 and in March 2015.
Subsequent to the year end, it met in May 2015 to consider the significant issues in relation to the 2015 annual report.
The external auditor, KPMG, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and various members of the finance team attend the meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other board members and or senior executives may also attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
At the end of each meeting, the Audit Committee has a separate discussion with the external auditor without executive management present.
Work of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee undertook the following activities in the discharge Membership and attendance of its responsibilities.
The membership and attendance record of the Audit Committee during the year was as follows: Financial statements The main focus of the meetings in May and November 2014 was the 2014 Meetings Meetings eligible annual report and financial statements and the 2014 half-year results attended to attend respectively, including evaluation of the going concern statements S J Bridges Chairman 3 3 therein.
1 H Y H Bol 2 2 2 The March 2015 meeting considered principally the audit planning for the D C Stewart 1 1 3 2015 annual report, including in particular the requirements of the 2012 C M Allen-Jones 2 2 4 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code and other disclosure R Goblet dAlviella 1 1 requirements.
5 C H Gregson 3 3 In its May 2015 meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the form and 1.
Mr Bol was appointed a member of the committee on 17 July 2014.
Mr Stewart was appointed a member of the committee on 17 March 2015. content of the 2015 annual report and financial statements.
Mr Allen-Jones retired as a member of the committee on 17 March 2015. its review, the Audit Committee considered reports prepared by 4.
Mr Goblet dAlviella retired as a member of the committee on 25 June 2014. management and the external auditor.
Mr Gregson ceased to be a member of the committee on 17 March 2015. analytical review of the financial statements, comparing the current to prior year financial position and results, and detailed the judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty involved in applying the accounting policies to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee also considered the going concern statement.
The Audit Committee recommended the 2015 annual report to the board.
The significant issues the Audit Committee considered in relation to the 2015 financial statements were the valuation of unlisted and listed investments.
In relation to these financial statements, the Audit Committee also considered the going concern statement and related liquidity issues and compliance with the annual report fair, balanced and understandable provisions of the 2012 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Unlisted valuations The Audit Committee recognises that unlisted investments are a significant component of the financial statements and that their valuation is subject to considerable judgement and uncertainty.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attended the Challenge Committee meeting along with the external auditor and reported to the Audit Committee on the quality of the review, adherence to the companys valuation policy and consistency of valuation methodologies over time.
36 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Listed valuations Audit effectiveness Listed investments are a significant component of the financial Audit quality is reviewed continuously throughout the year by both statements.
The Challenge Committee meeting referred to above the Finance Director and Audit Committee.
The focus is centred on also considered the listed securities, to ensure that the exchange bid the following: prices used in the valuation were from an actively traded market.
The the quality and seniority of the auditors staff Audit Committee concurred that it was appropriate to use the exchange the appropriateness of the planned audit methodology as applied bid price in all cases.
to Caledonias business activity Going concern the level and challenge and quality of reporting to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considered the trading needs of the company and its financial capacity, including available bank credit and liquid funds, The effectiveness of the audit is also monitored throughout the year to be wholly sufficient to confirm the going concern of the business.
using a number of measures, including but not limited to: Fair, balanced and understandable statement a review and approval of the scope of the planned audit The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual report and, taken the planned implementation of improvements following appropriate as a whole, considered it to be fair, balanced and understandable.
post audit reviews The Audit Committee recommended to the board that the statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the the monitoring of the independence of the external auditor financial statements, set out on page 57, should be signed accordingly.
a review of any Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review Internal control Report for KPMGs audit of the company In the May and November meetings, a report on the internal control discussion with the firms independent senior partner.
reviews performed during the previous six months was presented, together with an update on the controls assurance programme given Non-audit work at the March 2015 meeting.
The Audit Committee reviewed the In order to safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, the effectiveness of the internal control environment and the structure in Audit Committee maintains a schedule of specific non-audit activities place to resolve identified weaknesses.
The control reviews included which may not be undertaken by the external auditor, within the broad corporate tax and VAT compliance and reporting, purchase invoice principles that the external auditor should not audit its own work, processing and payment and general ledger accounting and reporting.
should not make management decisions on behalf of the company, No significant areas of weakness were identified.
The Audit Committee should not be put into the role of advocate for the company and that agreed the control review work plan for 2015. no mutuality of interest should be created between the company and the external auditor.
The board of directors is responsible for the companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to Pre-approval of non-audit fees is required for non-audit fees exceeding manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business pre-determined thresholds.
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Re-appointment of KPMG as auditor against material misstatement or loss.
KPMG Audit Plc was appointed auditor in 2011 and was replaced by Internal audit KPMG LLP in 2013.
The lead audit partner is required to rotate every As the company does not have an internal audit function, the Audit five years and other key audit partners every seven years.
No contractual Committee considers annually whether there is a need for one.
The obligations restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The company is an investment trust and manages its non-consolidated Audit Committee concluded that KPMG provides an effective audit and subsidiaries as other private company investments, expecting them to the Audit Committee recommended to the board the re-appointment operate their own risk management processes.
The company closely of KPMG LLP.
monitors the control environment of its private company investments.
The Audit Committee recommended to the board that an internal audit Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the function was not required.
directors to determine the auditors remuneration, will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 16 July 2015.
Auditor Private meetings The Audit Committee last conducted an audit tender process in mid-2011.
During the year, the Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately The main outcomes of the process were the replacement of Deloitte who and privately with the Finance Director and KPMG.
had been the companys auditor since 2006 with KPMG Audit Plc and a plan for the development of the external audit approach.
The principal planned changes were to increase the depth of the audit by reducing the materiality level.
At its request and for internal reasons, KPMG Audit Plc Stuart Bridges resigned as the companys auditor with effect from the conclusion of Chairman of the Audit Committee the annual general meeting on 24 July 2013 and was replaced by its 27 May 2015 immediate parent entity, KPMG LLP.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 37
