The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Hextall who is a consideration of the Auditors independence and objectivity and Chartered Accountant.
The other members of the Committee are the effectiveness of the audit process: and David Brief, an experienced pensions investment professional, consideration of the appointment of the Auditors, the Auditors Simon Barratt, an experienced lawyer, and Samantha Wren, a performance and remuneration.
Policy on Non-Audit Services Meetings The Committee has formulated a policy on the provision of non-audit The Committee met three times during the year under review.
The services by the Companys appointed Auditors and has determined Companys Auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee that they will never be considered for the provision of services related on a regular basis.
Representatives of Henderson and BNP Paribas to accounting and preparation of the financial statements, internal Securities Services may also be invited to attend if deemed necessary.
audit, custody, tax advice to Directors and tax calculations to support the financial statements.
The Auditors may, if required, provide Role and Responsibilities non-audit services related to a review of the Companys half year The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in applying report, with all other non-audit services being judged on a case-byfinancial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an case basis subject to approval by a member of the Committee.
appropriate relationship with the Auditors.
The Audit Committee Therewere no non-audit services provided during the year.
formally reports to the Board.
The Committees responsibilities are set out in formal terms of reference which are reviewed at least Audit Tendering annually.
In the year under review the main duties undertaken were: As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Company will in future be subject to the mandatory auditor consideration of the appropriateness of the Companys accounting rotation requirements of the European Union.
Subject to the policies: detailed implementation of the European requirements in the UK, a review of the half year results and the annual report, including this is likely to mean that the Company will put the external audit the disclosures made therein in relation to internal controls and out to tender at least every ten years, and change auditors at least risk management, going concern and related parties and every twenty years.
The Committee will, however, continue to consideration of whether the report is fair, balanced and consider annually the need to go to tender for audit quality or understandable and provides the information necessary for independence reasons.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy in order to make recommendations to the  LLP have been the Companys Auditors Board.
In assessing whether the report is fair, balanced and since 2009.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2014 the understandable, each Director reviewed the disclosures made, Company tendered its audit.
The tender was conducted on an applying their respective knowledge and expertise: integrated basis with Henderson and, upon consideration of the tenders received, the Board decided to reappoint consideration of the quality and effectiveness of the accounting  LLP.
records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company, relying on meetings with and reports from Henderson: External Audit, Review and Auditors consideration of the internal controls in place at Henderson and Reappointment BNP Paribas Securities Services as administrator, and The Committee discuss the audit process with the Auditors without Hendersons policies in relation to cyber risk and business representatives of Henderson present and consider the continuity, meeting with representatives of Hendersons internal effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
The Audit audit and risk departments periodically: Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit consideration of the whistle blowing policy that Henderson has provided by  LLP.
The Committee is put in place for its staff to raise concerns about possible satisfied that the Auditors are independent of the Company.
The improprieties, including in relation to the Company, in confidence.
Auditors are required to rotate partners every five years and this isthe second year that the current partner has been in place.
The policy includes the necessary arrangements for independent investigation and follow up action:  LLP have indicated their willingness consideration of the key risks, risk management systems in place tocontinue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the and the Companys risk map: appointment of  LLP as Auditors to theCompany, and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine consideration of the Companys anti-bribery policy: their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
consideration of whether there is a need for an internal audit Fees paid or payable to the Auditors are detailed in note 6 function in order to make a recommendation to the Board: onpage46.
consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom: 31 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Audit Committee continued Audit for the year ended 30 June 2015 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2015 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and ownership of The Directors have appointed Henderson to perform the valuation of the assets of the the Companys investments Company in accordance with its responsibilities under the AIFMD rules.
As required under the AIFMD rules, Henderson has adopted a written valuation policy, which may be modified from time to time.
Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third party pricing vendors.
Ownership of listed investments are verified by reconciliation to the Custodians records and the Directors have received quarterly reports of the Depositary who has responsibility for overseeing operations of the Company, including verification of ownership and valuation.
Recognition of income Income received, particularly special dividends, are accounted for in line with the Companys accounting policy as set out on pages 42 and 43.
Special dividends, and their treatment as income or capital, have been reviewed by the Committee and agreed.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2015, taken as a whole, isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Richard Hextall Audit Committee Chairman 17 September 2015 32
