The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Statement All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
TheArticles Applicable Corporate Governance Codes of Association require one-third or the number nearest to one-third of The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the the Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM.
However, the UK Code Companys affairs.
As an investment trust, the Companys day-to-day and the AIC Code require all directors of FTSE 350 companies to retire responsibilities are delegated to third parties: the Company has no annually.
All the current Directors will therefore retire and, being eligible, employees and the Directors are all non-executive.
Therefore not all have all stated that they will offer themselves for re-election.
theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 are Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a Director directly applicable to the Company.
The Board has therefore considered before the end of his term by passing an ordinary resolution at ameeting.
the principles and recommendations of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the Association of Investment Companies in Board Independence February 2013 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the applicable meeting in July 2015, the Directors reviewed their independence and principles set out in the UK Code as well as setting out additional confirmed that all Directors remain wholly independent of Henderson.
principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance Richard Hextall is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
The FRC has confirmed that, by following the AIC Guide, were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which boards of investment companies should fully meet their obligations a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is inrelation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
The Board has noted that the FRC and the AIC have issued revised codes which the Company will be required to report against next year.
Directors Professional Development When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be seminar which is held by Henderson at the request of the Chairman.
found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk Directors are also provided on aregular basis with key information on and www.
the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate Statement of Compliance in relevant training and industry seminars.
Directors individual The Directors believe that the company has complied with the training requirements are considered as part of the annual evaluation recommendations of the AIC Code during the year under review and up process which is led bythe Chairman of the Board.
to the date of this report, and thereby the provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below.
Directors Insurance and Indemnification Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect The UK Code includes provisions relating to: ofthe Directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and the role of chief executive subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party executive directors remuneration provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs the need for an internal audit function which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors, in which For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to Noindemnity was given during the year or up to the date of this report.
theCompany as it is an externally managed investment company.
Inparticular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and The Board administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees During the year seven Board meetings were held to deal with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board has a formal Directors schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which Board Composition include management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors shall controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price premium discount, not be less than three nor more than seven: the Board currently consists of contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, six non-executive Directors.
All served throughout the year under review with performance, corporate governance and Board membership and the exception of Samantha Wren who was appointed on 1 September appointments.
The biographies of the Directors holding office at the date of this report, which are set out onpage 16, demonstrate the breadth of The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their year results and other public documents and for ensuring that such positions as Directors.
documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Directors Appointment and Retirement The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so appointed must stand for election by the shareholders at the AGM following appointment, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
28 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Statement continued At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment Performance Evaluation performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes an operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Companys objective and is responsible for setting asset allocation, Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During investment and gearing limits within which Henderson has theyear, the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure, discretion to act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by Committees and of individual Directors.
The appraisal of the Henderson.
It also has adopted a procedure for Directors, in the Chairman was led by Richard Hextall.
The evaluation for the current furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional year was undertaken internally.
The evaluation concluded that the adviceat the expense of the Company.
In order to enable them to Board has a good balance of skills and experience and the Chairman discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely continues to provide effective leadership.
The Company is obliged to engage an external facilitator for Board The Board has two Committees: the Audit Committee and evaluation every three years.
An external review was carried out by theNominations Committee.
The terms of reference for these Lintstock Limited in 2013, who are unconnected to the Company.
Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com or via the Corporate Secretary.
Board attendance The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee The Board has not formed a Management Engagement Committee as it meetings held during the year under review and the number of remains the role of the Board as a whole to keep under review the terms meetings attended by each Director.
All Directors attended the AGM of the management agreement between the Company and Henderson.
Aseparate Remuneration Committee has not been established as the Board consists of only non-executive Directors and the Board as a whole considers the Directors remuneration in line with the Remuneration Policy Audit Nominations Board Committee Committee set out on page 26, which is subject to periodic shareholder approval.
Number of meetings 7 3 1 Simon Barratt 7 3 1 Audit Committee David Brief 7 3 1 The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Hextall.
The other members Richard Hextall 7 3 1 of the Committee are David Brief, Simon Barratt and Samantha Wren.
Martin Morgan 7 1 TheReport of the Audit Committee which forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement, can be found on pages 31 and 32.
Philip Remnant 7 1 Samantha Wren was appointed to the Board after the year end.
Nominations Committee All Directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The Internal controls Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Committee but would The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, not chair the Committee when the Chairmans successor was being evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board Theprocess accords with advice issued by the FRC and is subject succession planning, the performance of the Board as a whole and toregular review by the Board.
the Board Committees, and the appointment of new Directors.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of When considering succession planning, the Committee bears in mind internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity including asystem is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure gender existing on the Board and will recommend when the to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide recruitment of additional non-executive Directors is required.
Given the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement size of the Board it is not considered appropriate to have set targets in or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys relation to diversity.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional system of internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2015.
During Directors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn up and each the course of its review of internal controls, the Board has not Director is invited to submit nominations and these are considered in identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that have accordance with the Boards agreed procedures.
The Committee may been determined as significant.
also use external agencies as and when the requirement to recruit an additional Board member becomes necessary, and did so in relation to Henderson has established an internal control framework to provide the appointment of Samantha Wren, when Norman Broadbent, who reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the have not provided any other services to the Company, were engaged.
internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness ofthe internal controls is assessed by Hendersons compliance and The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board the risk department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives a formal Directors seeking re-election.
Recommendation is not automatic and report from Henderson each quarter detailing the steps taken to will follow a process of evaluation of each Directors performance and monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly the consideration of the Directors independence.
The Committee also responsibility of Henderson, and which reports the details of any takes into account the mix of skills and experience of the current Board members.
In accordance with the AIC Code any Director known internal control failures.
Each year the Board receives from serving forlonger than six years would be subject to particularly Henderson a report on its internal controls which includes a report rigorous assessment of his her contribution.
from Hendersons Auditors on the control policies and procedures in 29 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate Governance Statement continued operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of the annual review in July 2015 the Directors discussed the quality internal control and risk management into the operation and culture and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys ofthe Company and its key suppliers.
affairs, with particular reference to performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by Henderson to the Company, such as accounting, company secretarial Accountability and Relationship with Henderson and administration services, and Hendersons promotion of investment The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial and savings products linked to the Companys shares.
The Board statements is set out on page 25, the Independent Auditors Report noted Hendersons resources and experience in managing and on pages 33 to 37 and the statement of going concern on page 24. administering investment trust companies.
As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, appointment of Henderson on the terms agreed is in the interests of including Henderson, the management of the investment portfolio, the the Companys shareholders as a whole.
custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets which is delegated through the appointment of the depositary as Share Capital explained on page 20, the day-to-day accounting, company Please see the Report of the Directors on pages 23 and 24. secretarial and administration requirements and registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services Relations with Shareholders offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime relate to the affairs of the Company.
medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders is through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to provide The Board receives and considers regular reports from Henderson shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily required.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all calculation and publication of the NAV pershare at the London and the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by New Zealand Stock Exchanges and amonthly fact sheet which is Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters which available on the website.
Henderson also provides information on the would then be reported to the Board.
Company and Fund manager videos are on the website, via various social media channels and through its HGI content platform, more Henderson takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual details of which are on page 17. investments.
Henderson also ensures that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to attend information.
Representatives of Henderson attend each Board and participate in the AGM, which for the first time will also be available meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of to watch live by visiting www.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman of the Board, Corporate Secretary through its appointed representative who is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other Directors at the responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board and Committee meeting and the Fund Manager will make a presentation to procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are shareholders.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the resolutions complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Committee meetings proposed is displayed at the meeting and each substantial issue is dealt are fully recorded through a process that allows any Directors with in a separate resolution.
It is the intention of the Board that the concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board and Henderson Annual Report and Notice of AGM be issued to shareholders so as to operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
provide at least 20 working days notice of the meeting.
These documents are also included on the website.
Shareholders wishing to Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which acts for lodge questions in advance of the meeting, or raise issues or concerns Henderson, have arrangements in place by which their staff may, in at any time, are invited to do so by writing to the Chairman at the confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation to address given on page 17. financial reporting or other matters.
General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow the The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act 2010, publication of the annual results.
All meetings between Henderson which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its zero and shareholders are reported to the Board.
tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has received assurances from the Companys main contractors and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect New Zealand Listing It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate Governance may against any potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Continued Appointment of Henderson The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management and other services to the Company on an By order of the Board ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with Henderson are contained on page 4.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting Corporate Secretary and a formal review of Henderson is conducted annually.
