Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 1 Mike Biggs 63, Chairman of the Board 4 Jane Hanson 48, Non-Executive Director N and R A, B, C, I and appointed April 2012 appointed December 2011 Biography Biography Mike is also Chair of the Nomination Committee.
He has over 40 Jane is Chair of the Board Risk Committee.
She has extensive years experience of the UK and international financial services sector.
experience of risk management, corporate governance and internal He is a respected figure in the insurance industry and well regarded control.
She also has wide experience in developing and monitoring by City investors.
customer and conduct risk frameworks.
Mike was previously Chairman of Resolution Limited, then a FTSE 100 She spent her early years with KPMG, working in the financial sector, UK life assurance business, and has acted as Chief Executive Officer later becoming responsible for delivering corporate governance, and Group Finance Director of Resolution plc.
He was previously internal audit and risk-management services in the north of England.
Group Finance Director of Aviva plc.
Jane has also held a number of executive roles, including Director of Audit, and Risk and Governance Director at Avivas UK Life business.
He has a Masters degree in History from the University of Oxford, and is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England She is a graduate of the University of York with a degree in Music, and Wales.
and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments None External appointments Jane is Chair of Reclaim Fund Ltd and a Non-Executive Director 2 Paul Geddes 46, Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Board Risk Committee of Old Mutual Wealth C appointed August 2009 Management Limited.
She is also an Independent Member of Biography the Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd. Paul is Chief Executive Officer.
He led one of the UKs largest retail She has her own financial sector consulting business, which provides banking businesses during a challenging period, improving its audit, enterprise risk management and corporate governance advisory customer and financial performance against peers.
In 2009, this and consulting services.
experience singled him out as a Chief Executive who could turn around Direct Line Group and lead its divestment from RBS Group.
5 Sebastian James 49, Non-Executive Director C, R and appointed August 2014 After joining RBS Group in 2004 as Managing Director responsible for products and marketing, he became the Chief Executive Officer of Biography RBS Groups mainland UK retail banking business.
Before joining RBS Sebastian has been Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc Group, Paul held various senior multi-channel retailing roles in the GUS since 2014.
He joined Dixons in April 2008 and held various roles, and Kingfisher groups.
Paul started his career in marketing, with UK including Group Operations Director, before becoming Group Chief and European roles at Procter & Gamble.
He read Philosophy, Politics Executive in February 2012. and Economics at the University of Oxford, and is a Fellow of the Before joining Dixons Retail, Sebastian was Chief Executive Officer Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
of Synergy Insurance Services Limited and subsequently gained wide External appointments retail experience as Strategy Director responsible for developing and Paul is the Senior Independent Director of the Association of British implementing the turnaround strategy at Mothercare.
an MBA at INSEAD and an MA at the University of Oxford, he started his career at The Boston Consulting Group.
3 John Reizenstein 59, Chief Financial Officer appointed December 2010 External appointments Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc and Biography is also a trustee of the charities Save the Children and Dixons John is an experienced Chief Financial Officer and former banker.
He has extensive City and financial services experience.
John was previously an Executive Director at the Co-operative Insurance Society, CIS General Insurance and The Co-operative Bank.
He was Chief Financial Officer of these organisations between 2003 and 2007, and subsequently Managing Director, Corporate and Markets.
Before this, John spent more than 20 years in investment banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs.
He is an Economics graduate of the University of Cambridge.
External appointments John is a trustee and Director of Farm Africa.
He is also an alternate representative of the Association of British Insurers on the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
48 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 48 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6 7 8 9 6 Andrew Palmer 62, Non-Executive Director 8 Priscilla Vacassin 58, Non-Executive Director A, B, I, N, R and B, N, R and appointed March 2011 appointed September 2012 Biography Biography Andrew is Chair of the Audit Committee.
He was Senior Independent Priscilla is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
She has extensive Director from the AGM in 2015 until the Group appointed Dr Richard experience developing organisational values, and creating the Ward on 18 January 2016.
He has performed various senior roles leadership, succession, development and remuneration structures in the financial services and insurance industries.
Additionally, he has required to support corporate strategy.
As she has worked as a insight into corporate governance developments and best practice in practitioner and an adviser, Priscilla understands the technical and financial reporting.
This comes largely through his membership of the market complexity of remuneration.
Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
Priscilla was most recently Group Human Resources Director at In 2009, Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, where Prudential plc, and a Non-Executive Director at the Ministry of he was the Group Finance Director.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Defence.
Priscilla has previously held senior human resources positions Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
in various financial services and customer-facing industries.
These include roles at Abbey National plc, where she was Executive External appointments Director, Human Resources: BAA plc, where she was Group Human Andrew is a Trustee of the Royal School of Needlework, a Trustee and Resources Director: and Kingfisher plc.
She graduated in Law from Treasurer of Cancer Research UK, and a Non-Executive Director of Royal the University of North East London.
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
He is also a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
External appointments Priscilla has her own search and consultancy business.
7 Clare Thompson 61, Non-Executive Director A, B, C, I and appointed September 2012 9 Dr Richard Ward 59, Non-Executive Director and Senior N and Independent Director appointed January 2016 Biography Clare is Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Biography and the Investment Committee.
She has extensive experience and Dr Richard Ward joined Cunningham Lindsey as Executive Chairman knowledge gained from roles across the professional services industry.
Cunningham Lindsey is the leading global provider of These include Lead Audit Partner at PwC, where she guided companies claims management and risk service solutions.
through change and advised insurance organisations.
In her later role, Prior to this, Richard was Chief Executive of Lloyds of London, from she gained significant experience of general and life insurance.
Clare was a partner at PwC from 1988 to 2011.
During her 23 years Richard previously worked for over ten years at the London-based as a partner, she held several senior and high-profile roles, particularly International Petroleum Exchange IPE, the second largest energy in the insurance sector.
She is a graduate of the University of York with trading exchange, re-branded ICE Futures, as both Chief Executive a degree in Mathematics, and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Officer and Vice-Chairman.
Prior to the IPE, Richard held a range of Accountants in England and Wales.
senior positions at British Petroleum and was Head of Marketing & External appointments Business Development for energy derivatives worldwide at Tradition Clare is a Non-Executive Director of British United Provident Financial Services.
Association Bupa and Retail Charity Bonds plc.
She is also a NonRichard has a 1st Class Honours degree in Chemistry, and a PhD Executive member of the partnership board of Miller Insurance Services in Physical Chemistry from Exeter University.
LLP, and Treasurer of the Disasters Emergency Committee.
External appointments Richard is Executive Chairman of Cunningham Lindsey and NonExecutive Chairman of Brit plc.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Director of Partnership Assurance Group plc and is a member of the PRA Practitioner Panel, Bank of England.
Key: A Audit Committee B Board Risk Committee C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee I Investment Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Independent www.
