Executive Committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Paul Geddes chairs the Executive Committee.
In addition to Paul 4 Steve Maddock, Managing Director of Claims, Business Services Geddes and John Reizenstein, the committee comprises the following: and Technology Services joined 2010 1 Jonathan Greenwood, Managing Director of Commercial Experience and qualifications joined 2000 In addition to leading our Claims and Business Services divisions, Steve is currently leading the management of our IT estate, while Experience and qualifications Angela Morrison dedicates herself to our next generation of customer Jonathan joined the Group in 2000 as Product and Pricing Director for systems programme.
From 2004, Steve was Director of Strategic and UK partnerships.
After the Group acquired Churchill, Jonathan became Technical Claims at RSA.
He has over 20 years insurance industry Commercial Director and then Managing Director of the Groups experience, including roles as Director of Claims and Customer household and life businesses.
Jonathan was appointed Managing Service at Capita, and as Director of Operations at AMP.
Steve holds Director of Commercial in 2009. an MBA from the University of Reading, and is Chairman of the Motor 2 Mike Holliday-Williams, Managing Director of Personal Lines Insurers Bureau and Insurance Database Services Limited.
joined 2014 5 Angela Morrison, Chief Information Officer joined 2010 Experience and qualifications Experience and qualifications Mike was previously Chief Executive Officer of RSA Groups Since completing the migration of systems from RBS Group, Angela Scandinavian businesses, Codan A S and Trygg-Hansa.
Before has been focusing on our next generation of customer systems.
She joining RSA, Mike worked in the energy, telecoms and retail sectors.
was previously Chief Information Officer at J Sainsbury and a member He started his career at WHSmith plc, before moving to various of its Operating Board.
She previously worked for ASDA Wal-Mart.
Centrica-owned businesses, including British Gas and Onetel.
He Her roles included European Strategy Director: Chief Information has also served as Managing Director of MORETH N and holds Officer through the ASDA Wal-Mart integration: and e-Commerce an EMBA from Ashridge Business School.
Director, which involved establishing ASDAs home grocery business.
3 Simon Linares, Group Human Resources Director joined 2014 Angela holds a degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the University of Bristol.
Experience and qualifications Simon joined the Group in September 2014.
He was previously 6 Humphrey Tomlinson, General Counsel joined 2011 Group HR Director for O2, and responsible for all of Telefonica global Experience and qualifications digital businesses.
Before this, he held various senior global HR roles Humphrey was previously Group Legal Director at RSA and is a at Diageo, including responsibility for Spain, Africa and several UKsolicitor with over 25 years experience.
His experience includes based leadership positions.
Before moving into HR, Simon held several advising on corporate and commercial matters, steering corporate commercial business roles in the fast-moving consumer goods and transactions in the UK and internationally, managing legal risk, and financial services sectors.
dealing with corporate governance issues.
Before joining RSA, he worked at the City law firm, Ashurst Morris Crisp.
He is a graduate of the University of Oxford.
7 Jos Vazquez, Chief Risk Officer joined 2012 Experience and qualifications Jos was previously Global Chief Risk Officer at HSBC Insurance.
Before joining HSBC, Jos held senior actuarial roles at Zurich Insurance and was a consultant with KPMG in London.
Jos is a Mathematics graduate from Brunel University and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015
