Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report This report explains the Boards role and activities, and how Board and Committee membership and succession planning corporate governance operates throughout the Group.
The remuneration policy for Directors and senior executives The UK Corporate Governance Code In addition to the schedule of Matters Reserved, each Board Direct Line Insurance Group plc the Company has complied Committee has written terms of reference defining its role and with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014s principles the standing authority delegated to it.
You can find out more and provisions the Code throughout the financial year.
The about the Board Committees in the Board Committees section exception is the recommendation contained in Provision E. 1.1 from pages 58 to 69. of the Code that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with major shareholders to listen to their Board composition views.
During 2015, the Board received regular updates As at the date of this report, the Board comprises the from the Companys corporate brokers on the views of its Chairman, who was independent when appointed to the institutional shareholders and, in addition, the Groups Investor Board: the Chief Executive Officer: the Chief Financial Officer: Relations team provided regular updates to the Board.
It is and six independent NEDs.
Every current Director served open to major shareholders to raise any issues they wish with throughout the reporting period, except for Richard Ward, the Chairman, the SID and the Chair of the Remuneration who was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2016.
On this basis the Board is satisfied that it You can find the names of the Directors as at the date of understands the views of major shareholders and it was not this report, and their biographical information, on pages necessary for the SID to meet them.
The Board has therefore 48 and 49. concluded that it has complied with the main and supporting principles under section E. 1 of the Code regarding dialogue Glyn Jones, who was a NED and the SID, retired from the with shareholders.
Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting on13 May 2015.
Following Mr Jones stepping down, Andrew Palmer You can find details of how the Company applied the Codes was appointed SID while the search for a new NED was principles and complied with its provisions in this report and undertaken.
Richard Ward was appointed SID on his the Directors remuneration report.
For more information about appointment to the Board.
the Code, visit the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Structure of the Board The Board and its Committees have been established to Leadership ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience, The Board independence, sector knowledge and diversity exists to The Boards main role is to organise and direct the Groups enable the Directors to discharge their duties and affairs in a way that is most likely to help it succeed in the long responsibilities effectively.
term for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
The Board supervises the Groups operations, ensuring it is effectively All NEDs must be able to spend enough time in their roles to managed, that prudent controls are in place, and that risks discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The letters are assessed and managed appropriately.
The Board sets the of appointment for the Chairman and every NED set out the Groups strategy, and monitors managements performance time the Group anticipates that they will commit to their roles.
and progress against the strategic aims and objectives.
This is at least three days a week for the Chairman and an average of three days a month for the NEDs.
The Nomination The Boards specific duties are set out in the Schedule Committee reviews this time commitment annually.
of Matters Reserved for the Board, which contains items reserved for the Board to consider and approve, including: On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee assessed the NEDs independence, skills, knowledge and experience as The Groups strategic aims and objectives part of its annual review of each Directors performance.
The The annual operating and capital expenditure budgets Board concluded that every current NED was independent, continued to contribute effectively, and showed they were Corporate governance matters committed to the role.
The Nomination Committees work Capital structure, financial reporting and controls, including during the year led to the appointment of Richard Ward as an dividend policy additional NED.
It also resulted in changes to the membership The internal controls and risk-management system, including of the Committees.
The Group announced these changes in the Groups risk appetite statements May 2015 and February 2016.
You can find out more about these activities and the Nomination Committees work during Major capital projects, major investments and contracts that the year on pages 66 to 67. are either materially strategic or above the Chief Executive Officers delegated authority www.
com 51 Corporate governance report continued Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Board activities during 2015 The Board has agreed role profiles for the Chairman, Mike At each scheduled meeting, the Board receives updates Biggs, and the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Geddes.
These from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and clearly define their roles and responsibilities.
This is to ensure the Chief Risk Officer.
The officers update the Board on the no one person has unlimited powers of decision making.
operational performance against the agreed plan, financial performance and risk management.
The Board also has an The Chairmans priority is leading the Board and ensuring annual planner of agenda items.
This ensures the Board its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive Officers priorities are considers matters in a timely manner during the financial year.
managing the Group, and delivering the Groups strategy and financial results.
During 2015, the Boards areas of focus, challenge and supervision included: Senior Independent Director Richard Ward is the SID.
The role of the SID is: to be a Developing and challenging the Groups strategic plan sounding board for the Chairman: to act as an intermediary Overseeing the prudent management of the Groups for the other Directors when necessary: and to be available capital, ensuring that capital reserves remain robust, while to shareholders if they have any concerns they cannot resolve enabling the return of surplus capital to investors through through normal channels.
His responsibilities also include special dividends evaluating the Chairmans performance annually.
Overseeing the change programmes and associated risks NEDs relating to the IT migration from RBS Group.
Furthermore, The NEDs objectively and constructively challenge the Board monitored risks relating to IT systems stability, management.
They also use their wider business experience cyber security and the internal control environment to help develop the Groups strategy.
Approving and monitoring a comprehensive programme of investment in technology, organisational restructuring and NEDs are initially appointed for a term of three years.
This programme aims to improve customer will normally serve two fixed terms of three years.
When experience, making it easier to do business with the Group, appropriate, they may be invited to serve up to a further three and helping the Group provide outstanding customer service years.
The Nomination Committee nominates the Directors for appointment.
The Board then approves the appointments.
NEDs Overseeing the management and reduction of the Groups are subject to election or re-election annually at the Companys cost base AGM.
You can find the standard terms and conditions of the Overseeing a review of the Groups governance NED appointments at www.
framework, including reviewing and approving risk-based policies Information and support All Directors can access assistance and advice from the Encouraging management initiatives for cultural Company Secretary.
The Board is satisfied that it receives transformation information of appropriate quality and in a timely manner, Overseeing the Groups regulatory relationships and to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
Directors preparations for implementing Solvency II may seek external independent professional advice at the Overseeing the sale of the International division, the Companys expense, if they need it to discharge their duties.
effect on shareholders and the distribution of the Conflicts of interest proceeds to shareholders, and the share consolidation The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board Meetings to authorise matters where there is, or may be, a conflict The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2015 and five between the Groups interests and the direct or indirect additional meetings.
The additional meetings were ad hoc interests of a Director, or between the Directors duties to or Board sub-committee meetings, for example, to consider the Group and another person.
This is in accordance with specific matters in relation to the share consolidation.
Board also held its annual strategy day in June 2015.
Each Director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
They must declare any conflict of interest that could interfere with their ability to act in the Groups best interests.
The Board has authorised various conflicts in this way.
However, the Board still ensures that it will appropriately deal with any actual conflict of interest or duty that might arise.
This usually involves making sure a Director does not participate in a relevant Board or Committee discussion or decision.
To do this, the Company Secretary maintains a register of conflicts, and any conflicts that the Board has authorised.
The Board reviews this register regularly.
52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Company Secretary attended all Board meetings.
At its Direct Line Groups approach to diversity discretion, the Board invited senior executives and external The Board carefully considered the diversity of its members advisers to attend Board meetings, and present on business from various perspectives.
It also sought to ensure that developments and governance issues.
Directors had the relevant knowledge, skills, experience and, where necessary, independence to help the Group This table sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings in 2015: deliver its strategy.
Scheduled Percentage The Company believes in the benefits of diversity.
At the date 1 meetings attendance of this report, of the Boards nine members, three are women.
Chairman However, while the Board will strive to consider diversity when Mike Biggs 9 of 9 100% choosing new members, it is committed to appointing the most appropriate candidates.
Senior Independent Director Andrew Palmer 9 of 9 100% The Nomination Committees terms of reference state that it Glyn Jones 4 of 4 100% should duly regard the benefits of diversity, including gender NEDs diversity, when choosing Board candidates.
You can find Jane Hanson 9 of 9 100% more information about the Boards diversity policy in the Sebastian James 9 of 9 100% Nomination Committee report on pages 66 and 67.
Clare Thompson 9 of 9 100% The CSR Committee considers diversity as part of its Proud Priscilla Vacassin 9 of 9 100% to be here work stream.
This is to ensure the Groups talent Executive Directors pipeline remains diverse to meet future requirements.
The Paul Geddes 9 of 9 100% Group provides mentoring schemes and associated training John Reizenstein 9 of 9 100% and development programmes for high-potential candidates.
You can find numerical data relating to the gender diversity Board induction, resources and training of the Board, senior managers and employees in the CSR The Board is committed to training and developing all Directors section on page 33. and employees.
The Company Secretary is responsible for Board effectiveness review helping the Chairman regularly review and organise appropriate training for the Directors.
The Company Secretary In 2015, the Board chose to conduct its effectiveness review also maintains an annual training agenda for the Board and in-house.
The Company Secretary designed and coordinated its Committees.
This involved agreeing a structured questionnaire with the Chairman and Board members, distributing it to A tailored induction programme, comprising 16 sessions, stakeholders, collating responses, and preparing reports.
was prepared for Richard Ward.
The programme will focus The Board and each of its Committees reviewed and on the Groups businesses, strategic and transformational discussed these reports.
priorities, regulatory and governance frameworks, capital and financial management, and risk framework.
Relating to the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, the questionnaire focused on: The main Board training and development activities in the year under review included: The flow of information, including the quality and sufficiency of reports, management information and training Training on topics including customer behaviour, the The behaviour of, and interaction between, the Board or Groups investment portfolio, and cyber risk Committee and management, including how much time they NED visits to operational business units to meet the spent on strategic matters: how much NEDs challenged the management teams and better understand how the business Executive Directors: and the Boards culture and composition operates.
These included visits to the Human Resources, Administration, including how many and how often Risk, Legal, Audit and Actuarial teams in Bromley meetings occurred: paper volumes: the quality of systems Internal training workshops on Solvency II and processes: and Board and Committee support The Company Secretary updating the Board regularly The questionnaire also asked respondents to comment on aspects on corporate governance they thought worked well in the 2014 review, and areas they thought needed to improve.
The Groups brokers and financial advisers presenting quarterly industry and market updates to the Board The Chairman discussed the outcome of the effectiveness The Investor Relations team reporting regularly to the review with the NEDs and Chief Executive Officer.
The SID Board on the Groups relationship with institutional gave feedback on the Chairmans performance, with input investors and analysts from his fellow NEDs.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
com 53 Corporate governance report continued Based on the questionnaire responses and resulting reports, The core elements are the: the Directors are satisfied that the Board and its Committees Matters Reserved to the Board and the Board Committees operated effectively in 2015.
The Directors are also satisfied Terms of Reference that they made significant progress in areas identified in 2014 Regulatory Governance Map as needing to improve.
The Board and its Committees agreed Risk Appetite an action plan for improving further, which they will pursue in 2016.
Group Policy Framework, which comprises policies that the Board approves.
Minimum Standards interpret these The Board has agreed that external facilitators will conduct policies into a set of operational requirements and these the 2016 effectiveness review.
are implemented throughout the Group Governance framework and structure Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework.
This The Board is responsible for ensuring there is an appropriate sets out the Groups approach to managing risks robustly, system of governance throughout the Group.
This includes a and owning and overseeing risks robust system of internal controls and a sound risk management Executive Governance Framework, which outlines how framework.
The Groups governance framework is detailed in each business function is governed and details the authority the High Level Control and System of Governance document.
delegated to Executive Committee members The Board reviews this document annually.
The diagram summarises the split of responsibilities for the different parts of the Groups governance framework.. Board approves Matters Reserved High Level Control and System of to the Board and Board Governance document Board Committees High Level Governance framework, risk appetite and Group Policies Terms of Reference Regulatory are set by the Board, following Risk Appetite Governance Map review by the Board Risk Committee, for implementation by the Executive.
Policies are drafted by Executive Group Policies policy owners.
Board Risk ERM Strategy and Framework Committee approves Board Risk Committee Enterprise Risk Management framework is approved by the Board Risk Committee, following review by the Risk Management Committee.
Risk Management Executive Governance Framework Committee approves Risk Management Committee Developed by the Executives within the framework approved by the Board.
Minimum Standards are reviewed by the Groups Policy and Minimum Standard owners review forum.
The Executive Governance Framework and Minimum Standards are approved by Executives within the Risk Management Committee.
Policy owner approves, subject to non-objection Minimum Standards from Risk Management Committee Business unit and operational area implementation 54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board of Directors Mike Biggs Chairman Investment Nomination Audit Committee Board Risk Corporate Social Remuneration Andrew Palmer Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Clare Thompson Mike Biggs Chair Jane Hanson Committee Priscilla Vacassin Chair Clare Thompson Chair Chair Chair Chair Board Committees Executive Committee The Board has established various Committees to help meet The Executive Committee is the principal management its responsibilities.
Each Committee plays a vital role in committee that helps the Chief Executive Officer manage ensuring the Board operates efficiently and considers matters the Group day to day.
It helps him: set performance targets: appropriately.
The diagram above details the names of the implement the Board-determined Group strategy and direction: Board Committees and Chairs, as at the date of this report.
and monitor key objectives and commercial plans to help achieve the Groups targets.
It also helps him evaluate new Each Committee has separate terms of reference.
The Board business initiatives and opportunities, and considers reports reviews these annually.
You can find details of each on operational matters that are material to the Group or have Committees composition, attendance, role and focus on cross business implications.
The diagram outlines the current executive management structure.
The Chief Executive Officer The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys success.
However, the Board has authorised Paul Geddes, the Chief Executive Officer, to manage the Groups day-to-day operations and deliver its strategic objectives.
In turn, Paul Geddes has delegated certain elements of his authority to Executive Committee members.
This helps ensure that senior executives are accountable and responsible for managing their businesses and functions.
Such delegation also involves ensuring the senior executives have the appropriate financial and other authorities needed to manage those business areas.
Paul Geddes Chief Executive officer Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Human Resources Chief Risk Chief Financial General Chief Information Commercial Personal Lines of Claims, Director officer officer Counsel officer Jon Mike Business Services & Simon Jos John Humphrey Angela Greenwood Holliday-Williams Technology Services Linares Vazquez Reizenstein Tomlinson Morrison Steve Maddock Currently focusing Currently also on the next leading our generation of IT estate customer systems www.
com 55 Corporate governance report continued Accountability The Groups financial position is also covered in that section, including a commentary on cash and investment levels, Financial and business reporting reserves, currency management, insurance liability Responsibility for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts management, liquidity and borrowings.
Additionally, note 3 The Board is responsible for giving shareholders a fair, to the consolidated financial statements describes capital balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys management needs and policies and also covers insurance, position and prospects.
The Board is also responsible for market, liquidity and credit risks which may affect the Groups maintaining adequate accounting records, and ensuring financial position.
compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
After making due enquiries, the Directors reasonably expect You can find an explanation from the Directors about their that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to responsibility for preparing the financial statements in the continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from statement of Directors responsibilities on page 99.
The the date of approval of the financial statements.
Accordingly, Companys external Auditor explains its responsibilities they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the on page 105. financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report Risk management and internal control & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Assessing principal risks understandable, and provides the information shareholders need The Directors confirm that they robustly assessed the principal to assess the Groups position and performance, business model risks facing the Company, including risks that would threaten its and strategy.
In arriving at this conclusion, the Board was business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
You supported by a number of processes, including the following: can find a description of these risks, and their management Management drafted the Annual Report & Accounts to or mitigation, on pages 28 and 29. ensure consistency across sections, and a steering group comprising a team of cross-functional senior management This confirmation is based on the Directors twice-yearly review provided overall governance and co-ordination and challenge of the Groups Material Risk Assessment MRA, and their review and approval of the Groups risk A verification process, to ensure the content was appetite statements.
The MRA identifies risks quantified as factually accurate having a residual risk impact of 40 million or more based Members of the Executive Committee reviewed drafts of on a 1-in-200-years likelihood period.
The quantifications are the Annual Report & Accounts produced through stress and scenario analysis, and the internal economic capital model.
Each directorates bottom-up risk The Companys Disclosure Committee reviewed an identification and assessment supplements the MRA.
The advanced draft MRA also plays a key role in developing the Own Risk and The Audit Committee reviewed the substantially final Solvency Assessment ORSA and assessing the Groups draft before consideration by the Board strategic plan.
The Board meets its responsibilities under the Code as follows: Viability statement How the Company seeks to generate value over the long The Strategic report, on pages 1 to 45, sets out the Groups term is explained in the business model on pages 8 and 9, financial performance, business environment, outlook and and the strategy for delivering Company objectives is on financial management strategies.
It covers how the Group pages 14 to 17 measures its regulatory and economic capital needs, and deploys capital.
You can find discussion about the Groups How the Board has assessed the Groups longer-term principal risks and risk management on pages 26 to 29.
Note viability and the adoption of the going concern basis in 3 to the consolidated financial statements starts on page 121 the financial statements follows below and sets out financial disclosures relating to the Groups The Boards arrangements for applying risk management principal risks.
This covers insurance, market and credit: and internal control principles follow and the Groups approach to monitoring, managing and mitigating exposures to these risks.
The Board has delegated the Audit Committee to oversee managing the relationship with the Companys external Every year and on a rolling basis, the Board considers Auditor.
You can find details of the Committees role, a strategic plan for the Group.
The plan makes certain activities and relationship with the internal and external assumptions in respect of the competitive markets in which the auditors in the Audit Committee report on pages 58 to 60 Group operates, and the delivery and implementation of the next generation of customer systems.
Appropriate aspects of Going concern the strategic plan are stress-tested to understand and help set The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its capital and other requirements.
financial needs, including managing a mature portfolio of insurance risk.
The Directors believe the Group is well positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the current economic environment.
The Finance review on pages 44 and 45 describes the Groups capital management strategy, which covers how it measures its regulatory and economic capital needs, and deploys capital.
56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements When reviewing the strategic plan, the Board considered the The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing an Groups prospects over the one and four-year periods that independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and the plan covered.
This review includes reviews of solvency, effectiveness of the Groups controls.
It brings a systematic liquidity, assessment of principal risks and risk management.
and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the The one-year planning period has greater certainty, so it was effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance used to set detailed budgets across the Group.
for the four-year period are less certain.
However, the plan The Directors acknowledge that any internal control system provides a robust planning tool for strategic decisions.
The can manage, but not eliminate the risk of not achieving business Board recognises that uncertainty increases over time and, objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, not absolute, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or assurance against material misstatement or financial loss.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviews Considering the Groups current position, four-year strategic the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
Its plan and principal risks, the Board has a reasonable monitoring covers all material controls.
Principally, it reviews expectation that the Company and the Group can continue and challenges reports from management, the Group Audit in operation and provide the appropriate degree of protection function and the external Auditor.
This enables it to consider to those that are, or may become, policyholders or claimants how to manage or mitigate risk in line with the Groups in the period to 31 December 2019. risk strategy.
Risk management and internal control system Remuneration The Board oversees the Groups risk management and internal The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration control system.
It has complied with the Code by establishing Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Groups a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing Executive Directors and Chairman.
It recommends and the principal risks the Group faces.
monitors the remuneration level and structure for senior The Board has established a management structure with executives.
You can find out more about this in the Directors defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
remuneration report starting on page 70.
This control framework cascades through the divisions and Relations with shareholders central functions, detailing clear responsibilities to ensure the Groups operations have appropriate controls.
This includes The Board believes that engaging regularly with the controls relating to the financial reporting process.
Companys shareholders is vital to the Groups business.
Communicating and engaging with investors means the Board The Group operates a Three Lines of Defence model.
You can can stay up to date on opinions.
It also gives the Company find out more about this in the risk management section on the opportunity to answer questions and concerns.
The Executive Directors meet frequently with investors and The Board, with the assistance of the Board Risk Committee inform the Board about shareholder concerns.
This gives and the Audit Committee as appropriate, monitored the Directors the opportunity to discuss governance and strategy Companys risk management and internal control systems, with shareholders.
The Chairman, SID and NEDs are available and reviewed their effectiveness.
The monitoring and review to attend meetings with major shareholders at their request.
covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Board and its Committees are The Companys Investor Relations team helps Directors continue overseeing the ongoing work to improve the performance communicating with institutional investors, fund managers and across the board of the Groups IT systems, including focusing analysts.
The Board receives regular updates on investor on risks relating to IT systems stability, cyber security and the relations, including feedback from analysts.
The Companys internal control environment.
corporate brokers also regularly attend Board meetings to inform the Board of shareholder views.
The Board was also supported in its review of the annual Control Environment Certification process.
As part of this, Annual General Meeting each directorate self-assessed its risks and whether its key The Board sees the Companys AGM as a good opportunity controls were adequate and effective.
The Risk and Group for private shareholders to talk directly with the Board.
All Audit functions reviewed and challenged these findings.
The shareholders can attend the AGM if they wish.
All Directors Group then combined the overall findings into a Group-level attended the AGM in 2015. assessment, which the Chief Executive Officer approved.
The system reported on the controls nature and effectiveness, and At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer presents the Groups other management processes that manage these risks.
Next, the Chairman proposes the AGMs formal business.
The AGMs facilitators encourage The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews significant risks shareholders to ask questions about the meetings business.
The and how they might affect the Groups financial position: Chairman, the Committee Chairs and the remaining Directors comparisons to agreed risk appetites: and what the Group and members of the Executive team are also available to talk does to manage risks outside its appetite.
with shareholders at the end of the meeting.
