16310 Edinburgh pp19 22 16310 Edinburgh pp19 22 20 05 2015 13:28 Page 19 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the 2013 AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The AIC Code is available from the Association of Investment Companies www.
The UK Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except the provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company with no executive employees and in view of the Manager having an internal audit function.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Information on how the Company has applied the principles of the AIC Code and the UK Code is provided in the Directors Report as follows: the composition and operation of the Board and its committees are summarised on pages 23 to 25, and pages 20 to 22 in respect of the Audit Committee: the Companys approach to internal control and risk management is summarised on page 26: the contractual arrangements with, and assessment of, the Manager are summarised on page 27: the Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on page 28: the most substantial shareholders in the Company are listed on page 29: the rules concerning the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are discussed on page 25.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors concerning compensation for loss of office: and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares, which are sought annually, and any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association require a resolution to be passed by shareholders.
By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary Perpetual Park Perpetual Park Drive, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire RG9 1HH 20 May 2015
