30 Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Peter Wood Stuart Vann Darren Ogden Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer Peter Wood founded the Group Stuart was appointed to the Board Darren joined esure in 2003.
He has served in September 2011 and became promoted to the position of Head of as the Groups Chairman since then Chief Executive Officer in February 2012.
Finance in 2007 and was appointed and was the Groups Chief Executive He joined the Group in 2000 and has to the Board as Chief Finance Officer Officer from 2006 until 2012. held various roles including Head in November 2012. of Insurance Risk and Acquisition and Previously, Peter founded Direct Line During his time with the Group, Darren Chief Operating Officer.
He is a qualified insurance in 1985, retiring as Chairman has played a pivotal role in a number accountant with two decades of experience in 1997.
He also founded Privilege of key milestones in the Groups history in the sector.
Insurance with the Royal Bank of including the management buyout in Scotland, together with two other Stuart plays a leading role in esure 2010, the public listing in 2013 and the insurance companies in the US and Groups development and was pivotal to recent Gocompare.
com and He is a qualified accountant with over the Groups current footprint expansion.
In 1995, Peter received the honour 20 years of experience in the insurance of Commander of the British Empire He is a member of the ABIs General industry.
He previously spent 13 years in recognition of his services to the Insurance Council and also a member at Legal & General, primarily in the UK financial services industry.
of the Worshipful Company of Insurers.
N D I D E I D E Board balance and diversity Balance of Executive and Board gender Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors balance Non-Executive Directors 1 Chairman 2 37.5% 40% 40% Executive Directors Female 3 up to 1 year up to 3 years 5 62.5% 20% Non-Executive Male 5 5 years Directors esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 31 Mara Dolores Dancausa Shirley Garrood Martin Pike Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Mara Dolores was appointed to the Martin was appointed to the Board as Board as a Non-Executive Director a Non-Executive Director in August 2015.
Shirley was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
Her career in the He is a non-executive director with in July 2013.
She is also a Non-Executive financial and insurance sector has been Standard Life plc, where he chairs the Risk Director of Hargreaves Lansdown plc spent mostly in the Bankinter Group.
& Capital Committee and is a member and a Governor of the Peabody Trust.
of the Remuneration Committee and the She was appointed General Secretary Shirley is a Chartered Accountant Audit Committee.
He is also on the Board and to the Board of Lnea Directa in 1994, and Corporate Treasurer, having trained of Faraday Underwriting Limited, and he the year it was founded.
She was appointed Chief is Chairman of Greencore Construction appointed CEO of Lnea Board in 2008 Operating Officer of Henderson Group plc Limited, a company of which he is and it went on to become the fifth largest in 2001 and then Chief Financial Officer joint founder.
Shirley was she was appointed CEO of Bankinter.
Martin spent 30 years with Towers Watson an Executive Director at Morley Fund During these years, Bankinter was as a strategic risk consultant, culminating Management Aviva from 1998 to 2001 confirmed as one of the healthiest and in the post of Managing Director, and also Chief Operating Officer from most creditworthy institutions in Europe.
R R N I A R N A Angela Seymour-Jackson Peter Ward Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Angela was appointed to the Board as Peter was appointed to the Board a Non-Executive Director in October 2015. as a Non-Executive Director in 2001.
Committee membership Peter is an actuary who spent his Angela joined Aegon UK in May 2012 career in insurance working for and was appointed Managing Director A Audit Commercial Union in Australia, of the Workplace Division of Aegon UK plc South Africa and the UK.
In 1994, in December 2012 and is an appointed N Nomination he was appointed as a Group Executive member of the Independent Governance Director of Commercial Union plc, Committee at Aegon.
She is also a I Investment a position from which he retired non-executive director at Henderson in 2000.
Group plc and Rentokil Initial plc.
Angela Risk R has held various senior marketing and Peter is a Fellow of the Institute distribution roles from 1989 to 2011 of Actuaries and of the Chartered Remuneration R at Norwich Union Insurance, General Insurance Institute, a Past President Accident Insurance, CGU plc and Aviva.
of the Insurance Institute of London D Disclosure She was Chief Executive Officer of RAC and a Past Master of the Worshipful Motoring Services Limited from 2010 Company of Insurers.
Committee Chair R R R A R I N esure Group Annual Report 2015
