32 Corporate Governance continued Leadership The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the esure Articles of Association, the Board has the authority to Group and has overall authority for the management and authorise such potential conflicts and there is a procedure conduct of the Groups business, strategy and development.
in place to deal with any actual or potential conflicts The Board is also responsible for ensuring the maintenance of interest.
Prior to taking on additional responsibilities of a sound system of internal control and risk management or external appointments, Directors are obliged to obtain including financial, operational and compliance controls, and authorisation from the Chairman and it is their responsibility for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place, to ensure that they will be able to meet the time commitment and for the approval of any changes to the capital, corporate expected of them in their role at the Group.
Any potential and management structure of the Group.
conflicts approved by the Board are recorded in an Interests Register, and are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure there is independent oversight of internal control and risk Executive Directors may take up only one FTSE 100 nonmanagement, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities executive directorship and are allowed to retain any fees they to Board Committees, which, except for the Investment receive for such appointments.
Stuart Vann and Darren Ogden Committee and the Nomination Committee, are comprised do not hold any such directorships.
The Nomination The Board of Directors Committee is comprised of a majority of independent The Board comprises eight members: the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of each Board two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
Committee reports to the Board on its proceedings after each Committee meeting.
Each Board Committee has agreed Directors Board attendance Meetings Possible Terms of Reference approved by the Board.
On 1 March 2016, Name of Director attended attendance the Board agreed to redesignate the Investment Committee Peter Wood Chairman 7 7 as a Management Committee.
Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer 7 7 The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision along with the Terms of Reference of the Boards key Committees Darren Ogden Chief Finance Officer 7 7 are available to view online at www.
com 1 Dame Helen Alexander 3 3  corporate-governance.
Maria Dolores Dancausa 5 7 Board meetings The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the 2 Mike Evans 5 5 year.
Seven scheduled Board meetings were held in 2015.
Shirley Garrood 7 7 An annual strategy meeting is also held.
3 Anthony Hobson 3 3 If unable to attend a meeting, Directors are encouraged 4 to provide their views and comments to the Chairman on Martin Pike 2 2 the matters to be discussed so these can be shared with the 5 Angela Seymour-Jackson 1 1 other Directors at the meeting.
Meeting attendance by the 6 Directors is shown below.
Anne Richards 6 7 At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Peter Ward 7 7 Officer reported on operational and financial performance.
Dame Helen Alexander resigned on 13 May 2015 Diversity 2.
Mike Evans resigned on 12 August 2015 The Group is strongly committed to the merits of diversity 3.
Anthony Hobson resigned on 13 May 2015 at Board level and throughout the business.
Martin Pike was appointed on 12 August 2015 to carrying out candidate searches across the widest possible 5.
Angela Seymour-Jackson was appointed on 13 October 2015 pool of talent against a set of objective criteria based 6.
Anne Richards resigned on 25 February 2016 on merit, but with due regard to the benefits of diversity, Maria was unable to attend two Board meetings due to other commitments.
Currently, 37.5% of the Board are female.
Anne was unable to attend one Board meeting Our Group Executive Committee has one woman on due to a previous commitment.
a Committee of six members 17%, whilst our Operational Group Executive Committee and Executive Committee has two women on a Committee of Operational Executive Committee nine members 22%.
Of our senior managers, 32.5% 13 The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer are female: this becomes 32.7% 53 for managers.
are complemented by a strong and experienced senior Our overall percentage of female staff is 50.5% 920. management team comprising 12 executives.
The Group We shall continue to develop the potential of women Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer throughout the Group.
and the Operational Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
Directors external activities and conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the Company.
Under the Companys esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 33 The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer meet are separate, with responsibilities clearly divided.
regularly and keep in close contact as they are a critical link between the Board and senior management and liaise The Chairman on strategic and other issues.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Non-Executive Directors He promotes the highest standards of corporate governance The Non-Executive Directors bring a very broad level of and ensures effective communications with shareholders.
experience and independent judgement to the Board and The Chairman sets the agenda for Board discussions to make a valuable contribution to achieving our objectives.
promote effective and constructive debate and to support They provide a strong independent element on the Board a sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board and are well placed to challenge constructively and help receives accurate, timely and clear information, in particular formulate strategy.
He is also Chairman Shirley Garrood is the Deputy Chairman and also the of the Nomination Committee.
She supports the Chairman The Chief Executive Officer in his role and is also available as an additional point The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the of contact for shareholders.
performance and management of the Groups business.
Company Secretary In addition to membership of the Board, the Chief Executive The Company Secretary provides administrative and Officer leads the Group Executive team in running the logistical support to the Board.
Advice and support are also business and is charged with recommending and then given on governance, compliance and regulatory matters.
He is also responsible The Company Secretary is available to advise all Directors for ensuring effective internal controls and risk management and ensures that Board procedures are complied with.
The Directors may also seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
Group Executive Team Darren Ogden Stuart Vann David Pitt Chief Finance Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Darren Boland Helen Taylor Nick Edwards Chief Risk Officer HR Director General Counsel & Company Secretary esure Group Annual Report 2015
