GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate investment company.
The Company has, therefore, not reported governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a further in respect of these provisions.
framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment company.
This Corporate THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Report.
THE BOARD ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES AIC CODE The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the The Board has considered the principles and recommendations Companys affairs and for promoting the long-term success of of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by the Company.
All matters which are not delegated to the reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companys Managers under the Management Agreements are Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained in the reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters reserved for the Board AIC Guide, addresses governance issues relevant to investment include, amongst other things, decisions on strategy, companies and enables boards to satisfy any requirements they management, structure, capital, share issues, share repurchases, may have under the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK gearing, financial reporting, risk management, investment Code, as well as setting out additional principles and performance, share price discount, corporate governance, the recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the appointment of the Company Secretary and Board Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the appointments.
The Companys investment policy is detailed on principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by pages 8 and 9. reference to the AIC guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The AIC Code and The Board currently consists of six Directors, five of whom are the AIC Guide may be found on the AICs website at independent of the Managers.
Other than as previously www.
disclosed in relation to Andrew Wells, the Directors are considered to be free from any relationship which could The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for materially interfere with the exercise of their independent good governance and considers that the Company has complied judgement and all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant the Company to discharge their responsibilities fully and provisions of the UK Code and associated disclosure effectively.
requirements of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: All Directors, with the exception of Andrew Wells, form the membership of the Audit Committee and the Management the role of the chief executive: Engagement Committee.
All the Directors are members of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Investment executive directors remuneration: and Committee.
the need for an internal audit function.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively and the table below gives the For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and as explained in the attendance record for the meetings held during the reporting UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not year.
relevant to the Company, being an externally managed Nomination and Management Regular Remuneration Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings John Owen 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Nicholas Bull 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 David Causer 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Elisabeth Scott 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Andrew Wells 4 4 1 1 n a n a Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 24 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Company, together with a summary of their duties and The Board appointed Nicholas Bull as Senior Independent responsibilities.
In addition, a new Director will receive an Director on 26 October 2010.
The Senior Independent Director induction, spending time with representatives of the Managers fulfils the role as a sounding board for the Chairman and as whereby he or she will become familiar with the various intermediary for other non-executive Directors where necessary.
processes which the Managers consider necessary for the The Senior Independent Director also chairs the Nomination and performance of his or her duties and responsibilities to the Remuneration Committee.
The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend training courses on matters which BOARD COMPOSITION are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company and The Board consists of Directors who, between them, have good the Chairman reviews and agrees development and training knowledge and wide experience of business in Asia and of needs with each Director and the Senior Independent Director investment companies.
The Directors believe that the Board has does likewise for the Chairman.
The Directors also receive an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, regular briefings from, amongst others, the AIC, the Companys knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge independent Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any its duties and provide effective strategic leadership and proper proposed developments or changes in law or regulations that governance of the Company.
affect the Company and or the Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors including their relevant ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION directorships are given on page 19.
As a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index, the Directors ofthe Company are subject to annual re-election by the The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all times with shareholders.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee only the interests of the shareholders in mind and independently the Committee recommend to the Board that all Directors of any other associations.
It meets at least four times a year, with should seek re-election for the forthcoming year.
As part of its the Portfolio Manager in attendance.
The Board also makes an deliberations, the Committee conducts annual evaluations of annual visit to China and meets the investment team.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the The Committee has a policy of reviewing the tenure of each Managers.
Other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Director on a three year cycle and has agreed that an Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue independent Director may serve for more than nine years so matters referred to them from the Board and the Chairman is in long as that Director is considered by the Committee to continue contact with the other Directors regularly without representatives to be independent.
of the Managers being present.
The Committee considers that a Chairman will not be considered BOARD BALANCE independent after nine years in that role but may remain a The Board aims to ensure that the Board and its Committees Director thereafter, subject to annual re-election.
have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
The Nomination and Remuneration The names of Directors submitted for re-election are Committee carries out its candidate search from the widest accompanied by sufficient biographical details on page 19 to possible pool of talent against a set of objective criteria on the enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The terms basis of merit, with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the and letters of appointment of Directors are available for Board, including gender.
inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be available prior to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors PERFORMANCE EVALUATION take place in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the A formal annual process for the evaluation of the Board, its Companys Articles of Association.
The Company complies with Committees and its Directors is in place and undertaken at the the requirements of the AIC Code in respect of appointments to Board meetings ahead of the Annual General Meetings.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is review of the performance of the Chairman is led by the Senior responsible for identifying possible candidates for consideration Independent Director on an annual basis.
Whilst the independent Directors take the lead in the appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new The performance and contribution to the Company of the Director will be discussed and approved by the entire Board.
Chairman and each Director holding office during the year to External consultants may also be used to identify potential 31March 2015 was considered using an external evaluation candidates.
It has been concluded that in each case the Chairman and Directors have been effective and that they continue to TRAINING demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and receives training on the investment operations and administration functions of the Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 25 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Committee also concerns itself with the remuneration of the The level of Directors fees is determined by the Nomination and Directors, considering the Directors roles and the responsibility Remuneration Committee within the limit governed by the Articles and time involved in carrying these duties out effectively.
Full details of the Companys Remuneration Policy makes itself aware of the directors fees of other investment trust and Directors fees are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration companies and other comparable entities.
Shareholdings in the Company by Directors are encouraged and the Directors share interests are The Committee meets on an annual basis and as and when disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 33. required and makes recommendations to the Board where appropriate.
THE COMPANY SECRETARY The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The THE MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board The Management Engagement Committee consists of all the as a whole.
The Directors have access to the advice and services independent non-executive Directors, namely John Owen, of the Company Secretary which is responsible to the Board for Nicholas Bull, David Causer, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that Elisabeth Scott.
Mr Owen, Chairman of the Company, also chairs applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Committee is charged with reviewing and Directors also have the ability to take independent professional monitoring the performance of the Investment Managers and the advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary in respect of their contracts and the fees they are paid.
maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
This Committee meets at least once a year and reports to the Board, making recommendations where appropriate.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board of Directors discharges certain of its corporate The level of remuneration of the Investment Managers and the governance responsibilities through four Committees as set out Secretary is determined by the Management Engagement below.
Terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Committee.
This remuneration relates to the investment Remuneration and Management Engagement Committees are management function carried out by the Investment Managers, available on the Companys pages of the Managers website: on which a percentage of the funds under management is paid, www.
including a performance fee when appropriate, and to the administrative function carried out by the Secretary.
The Board is THE AUDIT COMMITTEE mindful that the fees paid to the Investment Managers and to the The Audit Committee consists of all the independent Secretary should be at a level to ensure that both the Investment non-executive Directors, namely David Causer, John Owen, Managers and the administrators within the Secretariat who are Nicholas Bull, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and Elisabeth Scott.
engaged to look after the Companys affairs are appropriately MrCauser chairs this Committee as the Board believes it is skilled and that those individuals are fully focused on the appropriate for him to do so given his financial background and Companys business.
experience as chairman of an audit committee.
Full details of the Companys Audit Committee have been disclosed in the Report The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the of the Audit Committee on pages 29 and 30. performance of the Investment Managers and the Secretary include those set out below: THE NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Nomination and Remuneration Committee consists of all the Quality of team the skills and particular experience of the Directors, namely Nicholas Bull, John Owen, David Causer, Peter teams involved in managing all aspects of the Companys Pleydell-Bouverie, Elisabeth Scott and Andrew Wells.
Mr Bull, business: Senior Independent Director, acts as the Chairman of this Committee as it is considered that he has the requisite Commitment of the Managers to the investment company experience to do so.
business generally and to the Company in particular: The Committee is charged with nominating new Directors for Investment management, portfolio management skills, consideration by the Board of Directors, and subsequent experience and track record and other investment related approval by shareholders.
It believes that the best way of considerations: ensuring that the Board as a whole and each independent Director individually carry out their duties in an independent Managing and controlling the administration, the accounting manner, irrespective of the interests of the Investment Managers, and the company secretarial function: is to ensure that the search for, the interview of and recommendation to the Board of a candidate is entirely Shareholder relations shareholder information and relations, controlled by this Committee.
The Nomination and Remuneration discount and premium management: Committee also considers the election and re-election of Directors.
Management agreements consideration of fees, notice periods and duties: and Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 26 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Marketing commitment to and execution of activities The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, designed to secure sustainable demand from potential including the Managers, the management of the investment long-term investors.
portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the day-to-day Details of the current annual management fee and the accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these performance fee are in the Directors Report on page 20. contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered including THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the The Investment Committee consists of all the Directors and one affairs of the Company.
representative of the Unlisted Investment Manager, with the requisite investment experience who attends on an advisory The Board, assisted by the Managers, has undertaken regular basis.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie chairs this Committee as the Board risk and controls assessments.
The business risks have been believes it appropriate for him to do so given his extensive analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls report investment experience.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The Board has decided that the The Committee considers that collectively the members of the systems and procedures employed by the Managers, including Committee have sufficient recent and relevant investment and their internal audit function and the work carried out by the financial experience to discharge its responsibilities fully.
The Companys independent Auditor, provide sufficient assurance Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the that a sound system of internal controls, which safeguards ongoing performance of the investments: discussing with the shareholders investments and the Companys assets, is Investment Managers the strategy for the investment portfolios: maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, reviewing all investments including pre-IPO opportunities: and is therefore considered unnecessary.
reporting to the Board on a periodic basis.
The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report on The Committee meets when appropriate or as the Chairman of the effectiveness of the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Committee shall require.
the Company and meets the Managers Internal Audit representative at least three times a year.
The Chairman of the ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Audit Committee has direct access to the Managers Head of Internal Audit and vice versa.
The Board also receives each year FINANCIAL REPORTING from the Managers a report on their internal controls which Set out on page 34 is a statement by the Directors of their includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual the control procedures in operation around the investment Report and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its management and administration processes.
reporting responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on pages 35 to 37.
By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors, The Board has a responsibility to present a balanced and clear the Directors have established an ongoing process for assessment of annual and interim reports, other price sensitive identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced public reports, as well as to provide information required to be by the Company and have reviewed the effectiveness of the risk presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports are management and internal control systems throughout the year reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their issue to ended 31 March 2015.
This process continued to be in place up ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
to the date of the approval of these Financial Statements and is expected to remain in place for the coming year.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE management and internal controls and for reviewing their Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good effectiveness.
The identification, control and evaluation of risk is service pursuant to the Management Agreements include the assessed quarterly and a regular internal controls report is ability for employees of FIL to raise concerns through a provided by the Managers.
The systems of risk management and workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate procedure.
FIL has advised the Board that it is committed to risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only providing the highest level of service to its customers and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity and material misstatement or loss.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees and others working for FIL to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been endorsed accordingly.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 27 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Notice of Meeting on pages 62 and 63 sets out the business The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has proposed on each substantially separate issue including the to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Chairman and the Managers, the Investment Managers employees and others other members of the Board will be available to answer acting on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION bribery, and the governance framework for training, Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be made communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation of by special resolution.
compliance together with enforcing action as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
On behalf of the Board RESPONSIBILITY AS AN INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in relation to investments.
These Principles include the pursuit of an active investment policy through portfolio management John Owen decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and Chairman maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of 11 June 2015 investee companies.
The Managers, in their Principles of Ownership, expressly declare that they support the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other Directors are available to meet with major shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company and liaises with the Managers and the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and communicate its views to shareholders.
The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It believes that the Companys institutional shareholders have proper access to the Managers at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on page 72.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there will be a presentation of the years results by Dale Nicholls, the Portfolio Manager.
There will be an opportunity to meet the Portfolio Manager, representatives of the Managers and the Board.
The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak to shareholders.
Except where a poll is called, all resolutions at the Annual General Meeting are dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting results are counted and made available to the Meeting and are disclosed in the Companys page of the Managers website: www.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 28 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
