GOVERNANCE R Repor eport of t t of the A he Audit C udit Commit ommitttee ee As Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee, I am Reviewing the provision of any non-audit services which is pleased to present the formal report of the Committee to subject to prior Board approval.
No work other than audit shareholders on the role and responsibilities and the was carried out by the Companys independent Auditor effectiveness of the external audit process and how this has during the year: been assessed for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Responsibility for making recommendations on the COMPOSITION appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys The Committee is chaired by me and consists of all of the independent Auditor: independent Directors, namely John Owen, Nicholas Bull, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and Elisabeth Scott.
Mr Owen is a member of Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers the Committee because the Board believes it to be appropriate internal audit department: reviewing the Companys for all independent Directors to have such responsibility.
The procedures for detecting fraud: and reviewing the Committee considers that collectively its members have sufficient effectiveness of the internal control systems including recent and relevant financial experience to discharge their financial, operational and compliance controls and risk responsibilities fully.
management : ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its Company and reviewing the interim and annual financial terms of reference which are available on the Companys pages statements of the Company prior to their submission to the of the Managers website www.
These duties Board for approval to ensure they are fair, balanced and include: understandable: Discussing with the Companys independent Auditor the Reviewing corporate governance issues, the existence and nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the independent performance of all controls operating in the Company Auditors quality control procedures, reviewing and monitoring including the adherence to Sections 1158 and 1159 of the the effectiveness of the audit process and the Auditors Corporation Tax Act 2010 status : and independence and objectivity with particular regard to the provision of non-audit services, taking into consideration Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and by party service providers such as the registrar, custodian and seeking appropriate disclosures and comfort from the Auditor: depositary and the risks associated with audit firms withdrawing from the market which is considered in the Committees risk evaluation and planning.
MEETINGS AND BUSINESS The Committee, which consists of all the independent Directors, met three times during the reporting year and the Companys independent Auditor attended two of these meetings.
Attendance by each independent Director is shown in the table on page 24.
The following matters were dealt with at these meetings: June 2014 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of leverage rules applying to the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Review of the performance fee calculations Consideration of the Auditors findings Review of the Auditors performance and independence Review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board Recommendation of the final dividend payment to the Board Review of the reappointment of the Companys independent Auditor Review of the Committees Terms of Reference November 2014 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the Companys compliance with its investment policy limits Review of the performance feecalculations Review of the Interim Financial Report and recommendation of its approval to the Board February 2015 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the Companys compliance with its investment policy limits Review of the fair value process of investments Review of compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements Review of the independent Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31March 2015 Review of the Depositarys Report Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 29 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 34.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and any specific areas which require judgement.
In respect of these Financial Statements, the Committee considered certain significant issues and how they were addressed.
Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 d on Investment Income page 42.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager, to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys investment income in accordance with the accounting standard.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Companys independent Auditor.
Valuation, existence and The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Notes 2 j and ownership of 2 k on pages 43 and 44.
The Committee takes comfort from the regular oversight reports received from the investments including Companys Depositary that investment related activities are conducted in accordance with the Companys derivatives investment philosophy.
In addition, it also gains assurance from its review of the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager.
Further, the Committee notes that the independent Auditor has verified the valuation of investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and has also confirmed the existence and ownership of the investments with the Companys independent Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparties.
Compliance with Approval for the Company to carry on business as an investment trust has been obtained, subject to the Sections 1158 and 1159 Company continuing to meet eligibility criteria.
The ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is of the Corporation Tax monitored on a regular basis with the help and guidance of the Companys service providers or advisers.
Act 2010 Performance fee The independent audit includes a review of the Companys performance fee to ensure that this is calculation calculated in accordance with the terms of the Management Agreements.
The Managers report to the Board on any performance fee accruals that have been included in the Companys NAV on a regular basis and provide confirmation that it has been calculated in accordance with the underlying agreements.
The Committee gets comfort that the Companys performance fee has been calculated in accordance with the terms of the Management Agreements from the work carried out by the independent Auditor.
Principal Risks and The Audit Committee reviews the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and evaluates Uncertainties them according to the likelihood of the risk occurring and the impact the risk may have on the Company.
Further details can be found on pages 10 and 11.
APPOINTMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR Grant Thornton UK LLP has acted as the Companys independent the fulfilment by the independent Auditor of the agreed audit Auditor since the launch of the Company.
The Committee plan: reviewed the independence of the Auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending their reappointment the audit findings report issued by the independent Auditor to the Board and prior to the Boards proposal to reappoint on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements Grant Thornton at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
for the year ending 31March 2015: and With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee feedback from the Managers.
reviewed: The current audit firm has acted as the Companys independent the personnel in the audit plan for the year: Auditor since the launch of the Company.
During this time, a review of alternative audit services has not taken place.
The the Auditors arrangements for any conflicts of interest: independent Auditors continued appointment is reviewed each year.
The Companys Audit Partner cannot act for more than the extent of any non-audit services: and 5years and therefore, the incumbent Audit Partner, Marcus Swales, will be replaced by a new Audit Partner for the year the statement by the Auditor that they remain independent ending 31 March 2016.
There are no contractual obligations that within the meaning of the regulations and their professional restrict the Committees choice of independent Auditor.
David Causer With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee reviewed: 11 June 2015 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 30 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
