GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors THE BOARD Report.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and the Board has put in BOARD COMPOSITION place a framework for corporate governance which it believes The Board, chaired by Humphrey van der Klugt, currently consists isappropriate for an investment company.
of six non-executive Directors and will revert to five non-executive Directors when Mr van der Klugt steps down at the conclusion of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODES the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2016.
It consists of The Board follows the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Directors who, between them, have wide knowledge and Code UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council experience of fund management, investment trust management theFRC in September 2014 and the AICs Code of Corporate and business in Europe.
The Directors believe that the Board has Governance the AIC Code issued by the Association of an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, Investment Companies AIC in February 2015.
The FRC has knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge confirmed that investment companies which report against their duties and provide effective strategic leadership and theAIC Code and which follow the AIC Guide on Corporate proper governance ofthe Company.
Governance will meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
James Robinson is the Senior Independent Director and fulfils the role as a sounding board for the Chairman and as The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the AICs intermediary forthe other non-executive Directors where website at www.
co. uk and the UK Code at www.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Simon Fraser is a Director of the Fidelity SICAV funds and until The Company has complied with the recommendations of the May 2015 was a Director of Fidelity Japanese Values PLC and AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code for the istherefore not independent.
year under review and up to the date of this report, except in relation to the UK Code provisions relating to the role of the Biographical details of all the Directors are given on page 19. chiefexecutive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
BOARD MEETINGS The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in discharge its duties effectively and the table below gives the theUK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not attendance record for the meetings held during the reporting relevant to the position of the Company, as it is an externally year.
The Portfolio Manager and key representatives of the managed investment company and has no executive directors, Manager are in attendance at these meetings and in addition employees or internal operations.
the Board have private sessions.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager and other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Management Regular Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Humphrey van der Klugt 5 5 3 3 1 1 James Robinson 5 5 3 3 1 1 Vivian Bazalgette appointed 1 December 2015 n a n a n a Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Robin Niblett 5 5 3 3 1 1 Marion Sears 5 5 3 3 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 23 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD EVALUATION The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs An annual process for the evaluation of the Board, its and for promoting the long term success of the Company.
All Committees and its Directors is in place.
The process includes matters which are not delegated to the Companys Manager regular discussion and written questionnaires and if appropriate under the Management Agreement are reserved for the Boards interviews.
These include decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, share issues, share repurchases, gearing, As a FTSE 350 Company and in accordance with Code B.
6.2 of financial reporting, risk management, investment performance, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company is required share price discount, corporate governance, Board appointments tocarry out an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and the appointment of the Manager and the Company every third year.
The next external evaluation of the Board will Secretary.
be for the year ended 31 December 2017.
For the year under review, the performance and contribution to the Company of All Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company each Director was considered using written questionnaires.
to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
Theperformance of the Chairman was evaluated by the other Directors in the Chairmans absence.
In all cases, itwas COMPANY SECRETARY concluded that all the Directors have been effective and that The Board has access to the advice and services of the they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Company Secretary is responsible to process is considered to be constructive in terms of identifying the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and areas for improving the functioning and performance of the that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Each Board and action is taken on the basis of the results.
The Board Director is entitled to take independent professional advice, at considers tenure as one of the matters under review during the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Changes to the Board take place in accordance with the Full details of the Companys Remuneration Policy and Directors Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association fees are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on andthe AIC Code.
Any proposal for the appointment of new pages 29 and 30.
Directors share interests are disclosed on Directors is discussed and approved by the whole Board.
As page 31. aconsequence, there is no Nomination Committee.
External consultants who have no connection with the Company are used BOARD COMMITTEES to identify potential candidates.
The Board discharges certain of its corporate governance responsibilities to the Audit Committee and Management DIRECTOR TRAINING Engagement Committee as set out below.
Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and receives training on Terms of reference of both Committees may be found theinvestment operations and administration functions of ontheCompanys pages of the Managers website at theCompany, together with a summary of their duties and www.
Directors also receive regular briefings from, among others, the AIC, the Companys Auditor AUDIT COMMITTEE and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed The Audit Committee is chaired by James Robinson and consists developments or changes in law or regulations that could of all of the Directors except for Simon Fraser for reasons stated affectthe Company and or the Directors.
Full details of theAudit Committee are disclosed in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 27 and 28.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION As required by company law, all newly appointed Directors MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE stand for election by the shareholders at the Annual General The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
All Directors Humphrey van der Klugt and consists of all of the Directors are subject to annual re-election due to the Companys status except for Simon Fraser for reasons stated on page 20.
The names of Directors submitted charged with reviewing and monitoring the performance of forelection and re-election are accompanied by sufficient theManager and ensuring that the terms of the Companys biographical details on page 19 to enable shareholders to make Management Agreement remain competitive and reasonable an informed decision.
The terms and letters of appointment of forshareholders.
Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be available prior to the forthcoming The criteria taken into consideration in reviewingthe Annual General Meeting.
performance of the Manager are the quality of theteam: commitment of the Manager to the Company and investment trust business: administration, accounting and the secretaryship Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 24 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement of the Company: investment management skills: experience and a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the track record: shareholder relations and discount management: control procedures in operation around the investment and the Management Agreement, including fees, notice periods management and administration processes.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for The Committee met on 1 February 2016 and reviewed the identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December bythe Company, and that it has been in place throughout the 2015.
The Committee noted the Companys good long term year ended 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this performance record and the commitment, quality and AnnualReport.
This process is in accordance with the Financial experience of the team responsible for the Company and Reporting Councils Risk Management, Internal Control and concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders that the Related Financial Business Reporting guidance.
appointment of the Manager should continue on the same terms.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function Details of the Management Agreement are set out in the and has determined that the systems and procedures employed Directors Report on page 20. by the Manager provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal controls is maintained to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
An internal audit function, ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The Audit Committee meets the Managers internal audit Set out on page 32 is a statement by the Directors of their representative at least three times a year.
responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE reporting responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good Reporton pages 33 to 36. service pursuant to the Management Agreement includes the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through a The Board has a responsibility to present a fair, balanced and workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other price procedure.
Fidelity has advised the Board that it is committed sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as to providing the highest level of service to its customers and to toprovide information required to be presented by statutory applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity and requirements.
All such reports are reviewed and approved by probity.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees and the Board prior to their issue to ensure that this responsibility others working for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling isfulfilled.
fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS endorsed accordingly by the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk management and of internal controls and for reviewing their BRIBERY ACT 2010 effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Manager, material misstatement or loss.
the Managers employees and others acting on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, behaviour when conducting business.
including the Manager, the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation of the assets, the depositary services, the registration services and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, and the day-to-day accounting and company secretarial and the governance framework for training, communication, requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full monitoring, reporting and escalation of compliance together with and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost enforcing actions as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero ofservices offered including the control systems in operation in tolerance policy in this regard.
so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
RESPONSIBILITY AS INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a rigorous The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership risk and controls assessment.
The business risks have been in relation to investments.
These principles include the pursuit analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls report ofan active investment policy through portfolio management which is regularly reviewed.
The Audit Committee has reviewed decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and the report on the effectiveness of the internal controls maintained maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of on behalf of the Company.
The Board also receives each year investee companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, from the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes expressly declares that it supports the Financial Reporting Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 25 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Councils UK Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities Voting rights in the Companys shares ofinstitutional shareholders and agents.
Further details of the Every shareholder on a show of hands has one vote.
On a poll Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or atwww.
representative has one vote for every ordinary share.
At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by both been dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting results are the Board and the Manager.
All Directors are made aware of disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website at shareholders concerns and the Chairman, Senior Independent www.
Director and other Directors are available to meet with major shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The Board ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company and Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be made liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker who are in by special resolution.
regular contact with the Companys major institutional investors.
The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for On behalf of the Board dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on page 61.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there will be a presentation by the Portfolio Humphrey van der Klugt Manager of the past years results and the forthcoming years Chairman prospects.
There will be an opportunity to meet the Board, the 11 March 2016 Portfolio Manager and representatives of the Manager.
The Board is looking forward tothe opportunity to speak to shareholders.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 56 and 57 sets out the business of the Annual General Meeting and the special business resolutions are explained more fully on page 22 of the Directors Report.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Chairman and other members of the Board will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 26 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
