GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee the byseeking appropriate disclosures and comfort from the Committee to shareholders on the roles and responsibilities of independent Auditor: the Committee and the effectiveness of the independent audit process and how this has been assessed for the year ended Responsibility for making recommendations on the 31December 2015. appointment, reappointment and removal of the independent Auditor: COMPOSITION The members of the Committee during the reporting year were Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers myself as Chairman, Humphrey van der Klugt, Robin Niblett internal audit department: reviewing the Companys andMarion Sears.
Humphrey van der Klugt is a member of the procedures for detecting fraud: and reviewing the Committee because the Board believes it to be appropriate effectiveness of the internal controls system including forall independent Directors to have such responsibility.
The financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Committee considers that its members have sufficient recent and management : relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
Monitoring the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Company and reviewing these to ensure ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE they are fair, balanced and understandable: The Committees authority and duties are defined in its terms of reference and are available on the Companys pages of the Reviewing the existence and performance of all controls Managers website at www.
These duties include: operating in the Company including the adherence to Sections 1158 and 1159 Corporation Tax Act 2010 status : and Discussing with the independent Auditor the nature and scopeof the audit and reviewing the independent Auditors Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third quality control procedures, reviewing and monitoring the party service providers such as the registrar, custodian effectiveness of the audit process and the Auditors anddepositary and the risks associated with audit firms independence and objectivity with particular regard to withdrawing from the market.
theprovision of non-audit services, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and MEETINGS AND BUSINESS CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR The Committee met three times during the reporting year and twice with the independent Auditor.
Attendance by each independent Director is shown in the table on page 23.
The following matters were dealt with at these meetings: March 2015 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Consideration of the independent Auditors report Review of the independent Auditors performance and independence Review of compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements Review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board Review of the Going Concern statement Recommendation of the final and special dividend payments to the Board Review of the Depositarys Oversight report Review of the Committees terms of reference July 2015 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the independent Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31December 2015 Review of the Half-Yearly Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board Confirmation of the Going Concern Statement Review of the Committees terms of reference November 2015 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the Depositarys Oversight report Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 27 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 32.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and any specific areas which require judgement.
Summarised below are the most significant issues considered by the Committee in respect of these Financial Statements, and how they were addressed.
Recognition of Investment income is recognised in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 c on page 40.
The Investment Income Manager provided detailed revenue forecasts and variances to these forecasts were reviewed.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager, to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Companys independent Auditor.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Notes 2 h and ownership and 2 i on page 41.
The Committee received reports from the Manager and the independent Auditor of investments who had verified the valuation of investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and including derivatives had also confirmed the existence and ownership of the investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparty.
Compliance with Approval for the Company to carry on business as an investment trust has been obtained, subject to Sections 1158 and theCompany continuing to meet eligibility criteria.
Ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria 1159 of the Corporation ismonitored on a regular basis with the help and guidance of the Companys service providers or Tax Act 2010 advisers.
Principal Risks and The Committee reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and evaluated them Uncertainties according to the likelihood of the risk occurring and the impact the risk may have on the Company.
Further details can be found on pages 9 and 10.
INDEPENDENCE AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT PROCESS AUDITOR AND AUDIT TENURE Grant Thornton UK LLP acted as the Companys Independent The Committee is mindful of the new EU regulations on Auditor for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Committee mandatory audit rotation which requires the appointment of reviewed the independence of the Auditor and the effectiveness newauditors or an audit tender every ten years.
As a result, the of the audit process.
Company carried out a formal tender process during the year atwhich a number of audit firms were considered and Ernst & With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee Young LLP has been selected as the Companys new independent reviewed: Auditor for the forthcoming year.
Grant Thornton UK LLP, who hasbeen in office since 2006, will not seek re-election at the the personnel in the audit plan for the year: forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to appoint the Auditors arrangements for any conflicts of interest: Ernst & Young LLP will be proposed.
The Committee will continue the extent of any non-audit services: and to review the Auditors appointment each year to ensure that the the statement by the Auditor that they remain independent Company is receiving an optimal level of service.
There are no within the meaning of the regulations and their professional contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of standards.
With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the James Robinson Committee reviewed: Chairman of the Audit Committee 11 March 2016 the fulfilment by the independent Auditor of the agreed audit plan: the audit report issued by the independent Auditor on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2015: and feedback from the Manager.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 28 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
