237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 36 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 36 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 The Committee, which comprises all of the Directors, meets at least three times during the year.
Attendance by each Director is shown in the table on page 25.
Responsibilities As Chairman of the Audit Committee I can confirm that the Committees main responsibilities during the year were: 1.
To review the Companys half year and annual financial statements together with announcements and other filings relating to the financial performance of the Company and issuance of the Companys shares.
In particular, the Committee considered whether the financial statements were fair, balanced and understandable, allowing shareholders to more easily assess the Companys strategy, investment policy, business model, position and financial performance.
To review the risk management and internal control processes of the Company and its key service providers.
As part of this review the Committee again reviewed the appropriateness of the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy.
During the year the Committee reviewed the internal controls in place at the Companys AIFM, its Portfolio Manager, its Registrar and its Depositary.
Further information concerning risk management can be found within the Strategic Report on pages 21 and 22.
To recommend the appointment of the external Auditors and agree the scope of their work and their remuneration, reviewing their independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
To consider any non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditors.
The Committee reviews the need for non-audit services and authorises such on a case by case basis having given consideration to the cost effectiveness of the services and the objectivity of the Auditors.
Other than providing tax compliance services, the external Auditors carried out no non-audit work during the year.
To consider the need for an internal audit function.
Since the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third parties and has no employees, the Committee has determined there is no requirement for such a function.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available for review on the Companys website at www.
com Meetings and business The Committee met three times during the year.
The Committee met representatives of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which the Company, the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager operate.
The Committee meets with the Auditors, without representatives of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager being present, at least once a year.
The following matters were dealt with at these meetings: December 2014: Consideration and review of the preliminary results Consideration and approval of the annual report and financial statements Review of the Companys risk management processes Review of the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy and the measures put in place by the Companys service providers May 2015: Review of the Committees Terms of Reference Consideration and approval of the half year report Review of risk management and internal controls of its key providers Review of the AIFMs internal control framework September 2015: Approval of the Auditors engagement letter and review of their plan for the 2015 audit 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 37 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 37 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Audit Committee Report Financial Statements Internal Controls The Financial Statements, and the annual report as a whole, are In accordance with provision C. 2.1 and C. 2.3 of the UK the responsibility of the Board.
The Directors Responsibilities Corporate Governance Code, risk assessment and the review Statement is contained on page 43.
The Board looks to the of internal controls are undertaken by the Board in the context Audit Committee to advise them in relation to the Financial of the Companys overall investment objective.
The review Statements both as regards their form and content, issues which covers the key business, operational, compliance and financial might arise and on any specific areas requiring judgement.
The Company has outsourced all its activities and has obtained Significant Reporting Matters assurances and information from its various service providers The Committee considered certain significant issues in relation relating to their internal systems and controls to enable the to the Financial Statements.
These issues, and how they were Board to make an appropriate risk and control assessment.
addressed, were: Necessary steps will be taken should the review of internal controls identify any significant failings or weaknesses.
Accounting Policies The current accounting policies, as set out on pages 48 to 49, In accordance with guidance issued to directors of listed have been applied consistently throughout the last two years.
companies, the Directors confirm that they have carried out a In light of no unusual transactions during the year or other robust assessment of the effectiveness of the system of risk possible reasons, the Committee has found no reason to management and internal financial controls during the year change the policies.
and that: Going Concern a The Board has in place an ongoing procedure for The Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate for the Board identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks faced to prepare the financial statements on the going concern by the Company, which were in place for the year under basis.
The Financial Statements for the year ended review and up to the date of this report.
This procedure is 30 September 2015 can be found on pages 44 to 59. regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with FRC guidance: and Longer Term Viability The Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate for the b As mentioned above the Board is responsible for the Directors to make the statement on page 66 that they have a Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to its effectiveness and that it is designed to manage the continue its operations and meet its expenses and liabilities as risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
This can they fall due over the next five years.
only provide reasonable not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Recognition of Revenue from Investments The Committee wished to receive assurance that all dividends External Auditors receivable, including special dividends, had been accounted Meetings: for correctly.
They received the necessary confirmation.
This year the nature and scope of the audit together with Valuation of the Companys Partnership Interest in Frostrow Capital LLP  LLPs audit plan were presented to The Committee reviewed the consistently applied valuation the Committee on 23 September 2015. methodology of the Companys partnership interest in As Chairman of the Committee, I met the Audit Partner, Frostrow Capital LLP.
The proposed valuation, based upon a Mr Alex Bertolotti, and his Audit Senior on 23 November 2015 discounted multiple of revenue, was accepted.
to discuss the outcome of the audit and the draft 2015 annual Valuation of the Companys Investments report and financial statements.
The Committee then met The Committee reviews the valuation and existence of  LLP on 2 December 2015 to review investments every six months.
the outcome of the audit and to discuss the limited issues that arose.
Details of the fees paid to the Auditors for audit services, audit related services and other non-audit services are set out in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 50.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 38 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 38 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Audit Committee Report Independence and Effectiveness: External Auditors In order to fulfil the Committees responsibility regarding the  LLP were appointed as Auditors of independence of the Auditors, we reviewed: the Company by the Directors in June 2014 and subsequently the senior audit personnel in the audit plan for the year, by shareholders in February 2015. the Auditors arrangements concerning any conflicts of  LLP have carried out the audit for the interest, years ended 30 September 2014 and 2015 and were the extent of any non-audit services, and considered to be independent by the Board.
the statement by the Auditors that they remain Having indicated their willingness to continue to act as Auditors independent within the meaning of the regulations and to the Company for the forthcoming year a resolution their professional standards.
re-appointing  LLP as Auditors will be In order to consider the effectiveness of the audit process, we proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
reviewed: In accordance with EU Audit Regulations the Company will the Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan, need to re tender for new auditors at least every 10 years.
It the report arising from the audit itself, and will be mandatory to change audit firm after 20 years.
In the meantime, the Committee will continue to carry out an annual feedback from the AIFM.
assessment of the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee is satisfied with the Auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process, together with the Length of service as at degree of diligence and professional scepticism brought to Date of 10 December bear.
Auditors appointment 2015 The only non-audit work carried out during the year related to  tax compliance services.
LLP 19 June 2014 1.5 years Audit Partner Alex Bertolotti 19 June 2014 1.5 years The Audit Committee monitors the level of non-audit work carried out by the Auditors and seeks assurances from the Auditors that they maintain suitable policies and processes ensuring independence, and monitors compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements on an annual basis.
The Company operates on the basis whereby the provision of David Hunt, FCA non-audit services by the Auditors is permissible where no Chairman of the Audit Committee conflict of interest arises, where the independence of the 10 December 2015 Auditors is not likely to be impinged by undertaking the work and the quality and objectivity of both the non-audit work and audit work will not be compromised.
