Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals.
Nomination for re-election should not be assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 26 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 26 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance This Corporate Governance statement, on pages 26 to 35, The UK Corporate Governance Code includes certain forms part of the Report of the Directors on pages 65 to 69. provisions relating to: directors tenure The Board has considered the principles and the role of the chief executive recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance executive directors remuneration AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance the need for an internal audit function Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers out additional principles and recommendations on issues that these provisions are not relevant to the position of the are of specific relevance to investment companies.
Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and The Board considers that reporting against the principles and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance internal operations.
Therefore with the exception of Director Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
tenure, which is addressed further on page 27, the need for a The Company has complied with the recommendations of the separate Nomination Committee which is addressed further AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate on page 27 and the need for an internal audit function which is Governance Code, except as follows: addressed further on page 34, the Company has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of 21 principles split into three sections covering: - The Board - Board Meetings and relations with the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager - Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement The Board The Chairman, Anthony Townsend is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chairman has a seat on the Board of the Companys AIFM by virtue of the 1.
The Chairman should be Companys minority partnership interest in Frostrow.
position and therefore the Board does not believe that this compromises his independence.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the AIFM, the Portfolio Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman also continues to be independent of the Portfolio Manager.
There are no relationships that may create a conflict of interest between the Chairmans interests and those of Shareholders.
A majority of the Board should be The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent of the AIFM and of the Portfolio Manager.
None of the Board members has been independent of the AIFM and the an employee of the AIFM or Portfolio Manager nor does any Director have Portfolio Manager.
relationships or conflicts which are likely to affect their independent judgement.
All Directors will submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
The individual performance of each Director standing for re-election is evaluated annually by the remaining members of the Board and, if considered appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote in favour of their re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Mr Simon Hayes joined the Board in June 2015.
Accordingly, his appointment will be proposed to shareholders for ratification at the Annual General Meeting to be held in February 2016.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 27 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 27 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 4.
The Board should have a policy on The Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving directors should not be prevented from forming part of an tenure, which is disclosed in the annual independent majority.
It does not consider that a directors tenure necessarily report.
reduces his or her ability to act independently and, following formal performance evaluations, believes that each of those directors is independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect their judgement.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
In view of its non-executive nature, the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term, although new Directors are appointed with the expectation that they will serve for a minimum period of three years, subject to shareholder approval.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of engagement which are available for inspection on request at the office of Frostrow, the Companys AIFM, and from the Company Secretary at the Annual General Meeting to be held in February 2016.
There should be full disclosure of The Directors biographical details, set out on page 24, demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the length of service of each Director are set out on page 42.
Details of the Boards committees and their composition are set out on page 25.
Due to the Companys size and to avoid the need to establish separate committees, the nominations and remuneration functions are carried out by the full Board under the Chairmanship of the Chairman of the Company.
The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman of the Company to preside over Director nomination and Directors remuneration matters due to his independence and also his knowledge and experience of the investment trust industry.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not chair it.
His membership of the Audit Committee is considered appropriate given the Chairmans extensive knowledge of the financial services industry.
The Directors believe that Mr Hunt, a Chartered Accountant, has relevant financial knowledge and experience to enable him to Chair the Audit Committee effectively.
Full details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee can be found within the Audit Committee Report commencing on page 36.
All Directors, including the Chairman, are members of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee to enable them to be kept fully informed of any issues that may arise.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 28 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 28 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 6.
The Board should aim to have a The Board considers annually the skills possessed by the Directors.
balance of skills, experience, length of When considering new appointments, the Board reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess service and knowledge of the the skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge or company.
experience and who can, alongside existing Directors, devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in their biographies set out on page 24.
The Company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled by the most qualified candidates and recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board positions become available, the Company will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
During the year the performance of the Board, its committees and individual 7.
The Board should undertake a Directors including each Directors independence was evaluated through a formal and rigorous annual evaluation formal assessment process led by the Chairman.
This involved the circulation of its own performance and that of its of a Board effectiveness checklist, tailored to suit the nature of the Company, committees and individual directors.
followed by discussions between the Chairman and each of the Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the other Directors under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
The review concluded that the Board was working well.
The Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
Directors remuneration should The Board annually reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the Companys peer group and the investment trust reflect their duties, responsibilities and industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment and the value of their time spent.
responsibility of each Board member.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Policy Report and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 41 and in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 50.
As all of the Directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors fees.
The Board collectively decides on the level of fees paid to the Chairman.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 29 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 29 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 9.
The independent directors should The Board is comprised of Directors all of whom are independent.
Subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Board are entitled to take the lead in the appointment of vote on the appointment of new Directors and on recommending for new directors and the process should shareholders approval the Directors seeking re-election at the Annual be disclosed in the annual report.
An explanatory note as to why the Company does not have a Nomination Committee can be found on page 27.
The Chairman will not chair the meeting when the Board is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship.
Details of the Boards commitment to diversity are set out within the Business Review on page 23.
In order to facilitate the appointment of Mr Simon Hayes the Board engaged the services of a specialist recruitment consultant, Trust Associates.
Trust Associates prepared a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the Board.
The candidates were then interviewed by the Board and Mr Hayes was subsequently appointed.
Trust Associates has no other connection with the Company.
Directors should be offered New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the Companys investment strategy, policies and relevant training and induction.
The Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Chairman and the Board Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore not applicable to the Company.
should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 30 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 30 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement The AIFM and Portfolio Manager The Board meets regularly throughout the year and representatives of the 12.
Boards and managers should AIFM and the Portfolio Manager are in attendance at each meeting and operate in a supportive, Committee meeting.
The Chairman encourages open debate to foster a co-operative and open environment.
supportive and co-operative approach for all participants.
The primary focus at regular The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes establishing the investment objectives, strategy Board meetings should be a review of and benchmarks, the permitted types or categories of investments, the investment performance and markets in which transactions may be undertaken, the amount or proportion associated matters, such as gearing, of the assets that may be invested in any category of investment or in any one asset allocation, marketing investor investment, and the Companys share issuance, share buy-back and treasury policies and level of gearing and asset allocation.
relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial data, revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
Representatives of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager report on issues affecting the Company at each Board Meeting.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibility properly.
The Audit Committee reviews the Companys risk matrix and the performance and cost of the Companys third party service providers.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for strategy and has established an annual programme of agenda items under which it reviews the objectives and attention to overall strategy.
strategy for the Company at each meeting.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 31 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 31 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 15.
The Board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee reviews annually the performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
The Committee considers the quality, review both the performance of, and cost and remuneration method of the service provided by the AIFM and the the contractual arrangements with, the Portfolio Manager against their contractual obligations and the Board receives Portfolio Manager or executives of a monthly reports on compliance with the investment restrictions which it has self-managed company.
The Board also considers the performance analysis provided by the AIFM and Portfolio Manager.
The Management Engagement Committee is also responsible for the regular review of the terms of the AIFM Agreement and the Portfolio Management Agreement.
The Committee last met in September 2015, at which time it was agreed that no amendments to the agreements were required.
The agreements were entered into as part of the implementation of the AIFMD in July 2014 and will be reviewed on a periodic basis as necessary.
The Management Engagement Committee also reviews arrangements with the Companys other service providers.
The Board should agree policies The Portfolio Management Agreement between the Company, the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager sets out the limits of the Portfolio Managers authority, with the AIFM and the Portfolio beyond which Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed detailed Manager covering key operational investment guidelines with the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager, which are issues.
considered at each Board meeting.
A representative of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager attends each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Portfolio Manager is required to refer to the Board.
Frostrow in their capacity as the Companys AIFM have delegated the management of the portfolio and subsequent proxy voting to Lindsell Train as Portfolio Manager.
The Portfolio Manager notifies the Board of any contentious issues that require voting upon.
The Board has reviewed the Portfolio Managers statement of commitment to the Stewardship Code and voting policy and the Portfolio Manager reports on the application of the Stewardship Code and voting policy.
The Portfolio Managers statement of commitment to the Stewardship Code and voting policy can be found on the Portfolio Managers website in the corporate information section.
Reports on commissions paid by the Portfolio Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 32 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 32 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 17.
Boards should monitor the level The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares in the market and takes appropriate action when of the share price discount or premium considered necessary.
if any and, if desirable, take action to The Board considers the discount or premium to net asset value of the reduce it.
Companys share price at each Board meeting and reviews the changes in the level of discount or premium and in the share price since the previous Board meeting and over the previous twelve months.
Details of the Companys Discount Control Mechanism can be found on pages 6 and 7.
At each meeting the Board reviews a report from the AIFM on marketing and shareholder communication strategies.
It also considers their effectiveness as well as measures of investor sentiment and any recommendations on issuance and share buy-backs.
The Board does not consider that any conflicts arose from the AIFM promoting the Company alongside their other clients.
The Board should monitor and The Management Engagement Committee reviews, at least annually, the performance of all the Companys third party service providers, including the evaluate other service providers.
level and structure of fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders.
The Audit Committee also reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010.
The Board is satisfied that the Companys Auditors do not carry out any work for the AIFM and therefore no potential conflict will arise.
The Board should regularly A detailed analysis of the shareholder register of the Company is provided to the Directors at each Board meeting.
Representatives of the AIFM and monitor the shareholder profile of the Portfolio Manager regularly meet with institutional shareholders and private company and put in place a system for client asset managers to discuss strategy and to understand their issues and canvassing shareholder views and for concerns and, if applicable, to discuss corporate governance issues.
The communicating the Boards views to results of such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
Regular reports from the Companys broker are submitted to the Board on investor sentiment and industry issues.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the offices of the AIFM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, where they are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of the Portfolio Manager.
The Portfolio Manager will make a presentation to shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held in February 2016.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 33 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 33 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Chairman will ensure that all monitor the shareholder profile of the members of the Board are made aware of the issues and concerns raised by company and put in place a system for shareholders and that appropriate steps are taken so that the Board has an canvassing shareholder views and for adequate understanding of these views, through communications with the communicating the Boards views to Companys AIFM and advisors.
The Board should normally take All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are reviewed by the Board taking into account representations from the AIFM and responsibility for, and have a direct Portfolio Manager, the Auditors, legal advisers and the Companys involvement in, the content of stockbroker.
communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure that The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims to provide them with a full understanding of the Companys shareholders are provided with investment objective, policy and activities, its performance and the principal sufficient information for them to investment risks by means of informative annual and half-year reports.
This is understand the risk reward balance to supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, which they are exposed by holding the of the net asset value of the Companys shares and the monthly factsheet.
The annual report provides information on the AIFMs and Portfolio Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in note 16 to the Financial Statements.
Details of the principal risks identified by the Board and the actions taken to mitigate them can be found within the Strategic Report on pages 21 and 22.
The Directors statement on the longer term viability of the Company is set out on page 66.
The Board reviews the Portfolio Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and operational issues at each Board meeting.
A compliance report is circulated by the AIFM for review on a monthly basis.
The investment portfolio is listed on page 8.
com, is updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys financial reports, latest prospectus and announcements.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 34 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 34 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance Election and Re-Election of the Directors Conflicts of Interest Policy The Companys Articles of Association provide that a Director Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she appointed during the year is required to retire and seek has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests and that all Directors are required to submit themselves for a situational conflict.
re-election at least once every three years.
As the Company is a It is the responsibility of each individual Director to avoid an FTSE 350 company the Board has implemented the provisions unauthorised conflict situation.
He or she must request of the UK Corporate Governance Code whereby all Directors of authorisation from the Board as soon as he or she becomes the Company stand for re-election on an annual basis.
aware of the possibility of a situational conflict arising.
The Board has considered the position of all of the Directors as The Board is responsible for considering Directors requests for part of the evaluation process, and believes that it would be in authorisation of situational conflicts and for deciding whether the Companys best interests to propose them for election or they should be authorised.
The factors to be considered will re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the include whether the situational conflict could prevent the following reasons: Director from performing his or her duties, whether it has, or could have, any impact on the Company and whether it could Mr Townsend, who has been Chairman of the Company since be regarded as likely to affect the judgement and or actions of January 2008, brings a wealth of experience to the Board the Director in question.
If the Board is deciding whether to through his long City career.
He has been in the investment authorise a conflict or potential conflict, only Directors who trust industry for over 25 years and was Chairman of the have no interest in the matter being considered are eligible to Association of Investment Companies from 2001-2003. take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be Mr Allard has extensive experience of the investment most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors management industry and was previously a fund manager with are able to impose limits or conditions when giving M & G for over 20 years, specialising in equity income stocks.
authorisation if they think this is appropriate in the He has detailed knowledge of the markets in which the circumstances.
Company invests and takes a keen interest in all aspects of the Companys portfolio.
The Directors must also comply with the statutory rules requiring company directors to declare any interest in an actual Mr Collins is a financial journalist, he was City Editor of the or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company.
Daily Telegraph for 19 years and currently writes a weekly column for the Financial Times.
He has followed most of the A register of interests and external appointments is maintained companies in the Companys portfolio for many years and is a by the Company Secretary and is reviewed at each Board passionate advocate of shareholders interests.
Directors are required to confirm at these meetings whether there has been any change to their position.
It was Mr Hayes is Chief Executive of Peel Hunt LLP and has resolved at each Board meeting during the year that there extensive industry and financial expertise with a strong interest were no direct or indirect interests of a Director arising which in the investment trust sector.
conflicted with the interests of the Company.
Mr Hunt is Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Internal Audit Audit Committee.
He is a Chartered Accountant with over The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need 30 years experience at partner level of advising quoted for an internal audit function.
As the Company delegates to companies with Binder Hamlyn, Andersen and Smith & third parties its day-to-day operations and has no employees, Williamson: his contribution to the Companys Audit it has determined that there are no requirements for an Committee is particularly respected by his colleagues.
Mrs Renwick has over 20 years experience at Laing & Cruickshank and UBS Warburg in corporate finance and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy marketing.
She has specialist knowledge of investment A copy of the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy product distribution throughout UK markets which is of great can be found on its website at www.
The policy benefit to the Company.
is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
The Chairman is pleased to report that following a formal performance evaluation, the Directors performance continues to be effective and they continue to demonstrate commitment to the role.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:00 Page 35 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 35 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Corporate Governance Relationship with Shareholders Exercise of Voting Powers The Board, the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager consider The Board has delegated authority to the Portfolio Manager to maintaining good communications with shareholders and vote the shares owned by the Company that are held on its engaging with larger shareholders through meetings and behalf by its Depositary, BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK presentations a key priority.
Shareholders are informed by the Limited.
The Board has instructed that the Portfolio Manager publication of annual and half year reports which include submit votes for such shares wherever possible.
These reports are supplemented by the with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on daily release of the net asset value per share to the London financial returns.
The Portfolio Manager may refer to the Board Stock Exchange and the publication of monthly factsheets.
All on any matters of a contentious nature.
this information including interviews with the Portfolio Manager is available on the Companys website at Nominee Share Code www.
Where shares are held in a nominee company name and where the beneficial owner of the shares is unable to vote in person, The Board is also keen that the Annual General Meeting the Company nevertheless undertakes: AGM be a participative event for all shareholders.
The Portfolio Manager makes a presentation and shareholders are to provide the nominee company with multiple copies encouraged to attend.
The Chairmen of the Board and of the of shareholder communications, so long as an Companys Committees attend the AGM and are available to indication of quantities has been provided in advance: respond to queries and concerns from shareholders.
At least to allow investors holding shares through a nominee 20 working days notice of the AGM is given to shareholders company to attend general meetings, provided the and separate resolutions are proposed in relation to each correct authority from the nominee company is substantive issue.
Shareholders may submit questions for the available: and AGM in advance of the meeting or make general enquiries of the Company via the Company Secretary.
The Directors make that investors in the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme are themselves available after the AGM to meet shareholders.
automatically sent shareholder communications, including details of general meetings, together with a Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the proxy votes form of direction to facilitate voting and to seek received are relayed to the meeting and subsequently authority to attend.
published on the Companys website.
Proxy forms have a vote withheld option.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary of the AGM together with the full text of any special authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys resolutions and begins at page 74. general meetings.
The Company has made arrangements for investors through By order of the Board the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme to receive all Company communications and have the ability to direct the casting of Frostrow Capital LLP their votes.
The Company has also made arrangements with its Company Secretary registrar for shareholders who own their shares directly rather than through a nominee or share scheme, to view their 10 December 2015 account via the internet at www.
Other services are also available via this service.
The Board monitors the share register of the Company: it also reviews correspondence from shareholders at each meeting and maintains regular contact with major shareholders.
Shareholders who wish to raise matters with a Director may do so by writing to them at the registered office of the Company.
The Board receives marketing and public relations reports from the AIFM to which the marketing function has been delegated.
The Board reviews and considers the marketing plans of the AIFM on a regular basis.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
