OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present to you the Report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015.
We have spent time bedding in the significant regulatory changes introduced in the previous year and considering the impending new EU regulations concerning auditors and provision of non-audit services.
By mutual agreement with PwC the Committee has recommended to the Board and the Board has agreed that PwC will not seek re-appointment as auditors at the AGM in April 2016 and that EY be appointed for the 31 December 2016 audit, subject to approval by shareholders.
Role of the Committee managers and a due diligence report from the Companys share The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to registrars: monitor the integrity of the financial reporting and statements of The performance of the Companys third party service providers the Company, and to oversee the audit of the annual accounts, and administrators, other than F&C, and the fees charged in preparation of the half yearly accounts and the internal control and respect of those services: risk management processes.
The Committee met four times during Counterparty approval and F&Cs dealing efficiency and the year with F&Cs Head of Trust Accounting, Head of Investment associated costs: Trusts, Head of Business Risk and the Fund Manager in attendance.
Investment and leverage restrictions including limits on the PwC attended all of the meetings and twice met in private session writing of options: with the Committee.
The Board Chairman was invited to and The Companys trademarks and intellectual property rights: regularly attended Committee meetings.
The Companys Directors and Officers liability insurance: and The Committees Terms of Reference for approval by the Board.
Specifically, the Committee considered, monitored and reviewed the following matters: Comprehensive papers relating to each of these matters were The audited annual results statement and annual report and prepared by either F&C or PwC for discussion.
These were debated accounts and the unaudited half-yearly report and accounts, by the Committee and any recommendations were fully considered including advice to the Board as to whether the annual report and if there was a judgement to be applied in arriving at conclusions.
accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable: Recommendations were then made to the Board as appropriate.
The accounting policies of the Company including the application of new accounting standards: The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects relating to The Principal Risks faced by the Company and the effectiveness external financial statements and other significant published financial of the Companys internal control and risk management information as is noted in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities environment, including consideration of the assumptions on page 45.
On broader control policy issues, the Committee underlying the Boards Future Prospects statement on viability: has reviewed, and is satisfied with F&Cs Anti-Fraud, Bribery and The effectiveness of the audit process and the current Corruption Strategy and Policy and with the whistleblowing policy independence and objectivity of the external auditor, their that has been put in place by F&C under which its staff may, in appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial The policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply reporting or other matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place non-audit services in light of changing regulations: for communication to this Committee where matters might impact The need for the Company to have its own internal audit the Company with appropriate follow up action.
In 2015 there were function: no such concerns raised with the Committee.
The receipt of AAF and SSAE16 reports or their equivalent from F&C, the Custodian, the Private Equity managers and the subReport and Accounts 2015 | 41 Composition of the Committee reports provided by F&C.
The reports cover investment performance, Committee membership is listed on pages 26 and 27 performance attribution, compliance with agreed and regulatory and its terms of reference can be found on the website at investment restrictions, financial analyses, revenue estimates, www.
performance of the third party administrators of the F&C savings plans and on other relevant management issues.
All the Committee members are independent non-executive Directors.
I, Jeffrey Hewitt, am Chairman of the Committee and F&Cs Business Risk Department also provides regular control a Chartered Accountant and was for many years Group Finance report updates to the Committee covering risk and compliance Director of Electrocomponents plc, as well as currently or having whilst any significant issues of direct relevance to the Company are recently been audit committee chairman of other listed companies.
required to be reported to the Committee and Board immediately.
The other members of the Committee have a combination of F&C are integrating their control framework within the wider BMO financial, investment and business experience through the senior organisation and the Committee is monitoring the continued posts held throughout their careers.
Several have wide experience of awareness of Company relevant control issues.
The significant control issues considered by the Committee, and Internal controls and management of risk F&Cs response on policies and procedures in operation in 2015, are The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of summarised in the table below.
internal controls, for reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk management and control processes are embedded in the dayA key risk radar summary is produced by F&C in consultation with to-day operations, which are managed by F&C.
The Committee has the Board to identify the risks to which the Company is exposed, the reviewed and reported to the Board on these controls, which aim controls in place and the actions being taken to mitigate them.
The to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper Board has a robust process for considering the resulting risk matrix accounting records are maintained and the financial information used at each of its meetings and dynamically reviews the significance of within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks the risks and the reasons for any changes.
The Companys Principal identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and overall Risks are set out on page 22 with additional information given in risk management, is exercised by the Committee through regular note 25 on the Accounts.
Significant Issues considered by the Audit Committee in 2015 Matter Action Investment Portfolio Valuation The Companys portfolio is invested in securities listed on The Committee reviewed F&Cs, the sub-managers and Private Equity recognised stock exchanges and in Private Equity investments.
managers annual internal control reports which are reported on by The listed securities are highly liquid.
The Private Equity portfolio independent reporting accountants and which detail the systems and comprises funds of funds holding a diversity of unlisted investments controls around the daily pricing and valuation of securities.
Errors in valuation of the portfolio could The Committee reviewed the valuation of the unlisted portfolio in have a material impact on the Companys net asset value per share.
detail twice in the year and had access to the managers of the Private Equity funds of funds.
Specific recommendations by F&Cs Valuations Committee on individual securities investments were considered as appropriate.
Misappropriation of Assets Misappropriation of the Companys investments or cash balances The Committee reviewed F&Cs AAF Report for the year ended could have a material impact on its net asset value per share.
31 October 2015 which details the controls around the reconciliation of F&Cs records to those of the Custodian.
The Committee also reviewed the Custodians annual internal control report, which is reported on by independent reporting accountants, and which provided details on its control environment.
The Depositary issued reports confirming the safe custody of the Companys assets for the period ended 31 December 2015.
Income Recognition Incomplete or inaccurate recognition could have an adverse effect The Committee reviewed F&Cs AAF Report as above.
The final level on the Companys net asset value and earnings per share and its of income received was compared with forecasts made during the level of dividend cover.
The accounting treatment of special or unusual dividends were reviewed and agreed with F&C.
42 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT During the year, the Committee has in particular considered the the external audit for 2015.
The table on page 42 describes the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September significant control issues considered by the Committee in relation to the 2014 which strengthens the reporting on risk management and financial statements for the year and how these issues were addressed.
The Committee noted the robustness of the Boards As last year, procedures for investment valuation and recognition review of Principal Risks and of course participated as Board members themselves.
The integration of these risks into the analyses of income were the main areas of audit focus and testing, underpinning the Future Prospects Ten Year Horizon Statement supplemented by specific focus on policy and disclosure changes on viability on page 23 was fully considered and the Committee relating to the implementation of new UK accounting standard FRS 102.
The effects of the adoption of FRS 102 are described in note concluded that the Boards statement was soundly based.
The period of ten years was also agreed as appropriate for the reasons 2 b on the accounts.
For unlisted Private Equity investments in given in the statement though recognising that the period is longer particular, the Committee questioned the fund-of-fund managers on than that used by many other companies.
their processes in meetings during the year and noted the further challenge provided by PwC as part of the year-end audit process.
The systems of internal controls are designed to manage rather The year-end valuation is an estimate based on the September than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and valuations extrapolated to the year-end by adjusting for cash flows can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against and any known events as described in notes 2 c ii and 25 d on the material misstatement, or loss or fraud.
Further to the review by Accounts.
The Committee reviewed prior year experience on the validity of this estimation process by comparing the estimated value the Committee, the Board has assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls.
The assessment included a review of with the actual audited values which become known in May June of the F&C risk management infrastructure and the report on policies the following year.
The variances were not material for the priorand procedures in operation and tests for the year to 31 October years tested.
2015 the AAF Report and subsequent confirmation from F&C that there had been no material changes to the control environment.
The Committee met in February 2016 to discuss the final draft of This had been prepared by F&C for all its investment trust clients the Report and Accounts, with representatives of PwC and F&C in to the standards of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in attendance.
PwC submitted their Year-End Report and confirmed England and Wales Technical Release AAF 01 06.
The AAF Report that they had no reason not to issue an unqualified audit opinion in respect of the Report and Accounts.
The Committee established from independent reporting accountants KPMG sets out F&Cs control policies and procedures with respect to the management that there were no material issues or findings arising which needed of clients investments and maintenance of their financial records.
to be brought to the attention of the Board.
The Committee The effectiveness of these controls is monitored by F&Cs Group also noted that an objective and skilled third party had read the Report and Accounts and commented on fairness, balance and Audit and Compliance Committee, which receives regular reports from its Internal Audit department.
Procedures are also in place understandability.
Consequently, the Committee recommended to capture and evaluate any failings and weaknesses within F&Cs to the Board that the Report and Accounts were in their view, control environment and those extending to any outsourced service fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with accounting providers to ensure that action would be taken to remedy any standards, regulatory requirements and best practice.
Any errors or breaches relating to the Company Report which sets out the unqualified audit opinion, the scope of the are reported at each Committee and Board meeting by F&C.
No audit and the areas of focus, in compliance with applicable auditing failings or weaknesses material to the overall control environment standards, can be found on pages 47 to 51. and financial statements were identified in the year.
The Committee Auditor, assessment, independence and appointment also reviewed the control reports of the Custodian, the Depositary, third party sub-managers, Private Equity managers and the Registrar The Committee reviews the reappointment of the auditor every year.
and were satisfied that there were no material exceptions.
In May 2014 the Committee undertook a tender process for the external audit in light of the existing UK Code, FRC Guidance, the impending EU mandatory audit rotation regulations and the CMAs Through the reviews noted above and by direct enquiry of F&C and other relevant parties, the Committee and the Board have satisfied rules.
The process was described fully in the 2014 Audit Committee themselves that there were no material control failures or exceptions Report.
The Committee concluded that, notwithstanding their affecting the Companys operations during the year nor to the date of previous tenure, PwC should justifiably win the tender and continue this Report.
with their appointment as auditors.
Subsequently, shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting approved the re-appointment of Based on the processes and controls in place within F&C, the PwC as auditors.
Committee has concluded and the Board has concurred that there is no current need for the Company to have a separate internal audit function.
It was also noted last year that PwC had provided specialist tax services to the Company for a number of years and continued to External audit process and significant issues considered by do so on a contingent fee basis in respect of a long running case the Committee for reclaim of VAT.
The Committee and PwC took the view that this In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has considered the work did not compromise PwCs independence as auditors as the planning arrangements, scope, materiality levels and conclusions of outcome of the case is not dependent on any audit judgment and Report and Accounts 2015 | 43 the potential fee is not material to PwC.
During 2015 the FRC has the PwC partner and with me as Chair of the Audit Committee.
At the been considering and consulting on the non-audit services that an end of the review the AQR writes to both, giving their comments.
The external auditor can provide in light of the EU Regulations that were Committee is satisfied with the outcome, which underpins our view put out for member country modification ahead of implementation.
on the quality of the PwC audit.
One minor comment on a disclosure that was made has been acted upon in the current year Report and These restrictions take the form of prohibitions, particularly regarding tax work and work on a contingent fee basis.
The AQR process is useful in strengthening overall audit the conclusions of the FRCs consultations on the EU Regulations quality and is commended by the Committee.
including such prohibited non-audit services are not yet finalised, The Committee regard the continued independence of the external the Regulations will come into force on 17 June 2016 for application by companies in their first financial year after that date the year auditors to be a matter of the highest priority.
The Companys policy beginning 1 January 2017 for the Company.
In the consultation, with regard to the provision of non-audit services by the external the FRC has proposed that the EU Regulations be enacted fully, auditor ensures that no engagement will be permitted if: including the absolute prohibition of contingent fee arrangements.
the provision of the services would contravene any regulation or ethical standard: While PwC have confirmed to the Committee and the Board that the auditors are not considered to be expert providers of the they are independent of the Company and have complied with non-audit services: and relevant auditing standards, to which we have concurred, the Board the provision of such services by the auditor creates a conflict of interest for either the Board or the Manager: the services are and PwC have nevertheless mutually decided that in view of the contingent fee arrangement PwC would be unable to continue as considered to be likely to inhibit the auditors independence or auditor whilst pursuing the VAT claim.
PwC will therefore cease to objectivity as auditors.
be the auditors at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in April 2016.
As required, PwC have written a letter to the In particular, the Committee has a policy that the accumulated costs Company setting out the reasons a copy of which can be found on of all non-audit services sought from the auditors in any one year page 85. should not exceed 30% of the likely audit fees for that year: and any individual service likely to exceed 5,000 should be agreed Under the CMA Regulations that came into force on 1 January 2015, by the Committee prior to commencement of the services and be accompanied by terms regarding liability, cost and responsibilities.
there are specific requirements for an audit tender process and auditor selection.
Under these Regulations I, as Chairman, and the Committee have primary responsibility for an audit tender process The audit fee for the 2015 audit was 74,000, inclusive of a 5,000 and consequent recommendations on auditor selection to the Board one-off fee for review of the adoption by the Company of new UK Accounting Standards, having been agreed by the Committee.
In complying with these regulations, the Committee has considered the requirements in respect of the This compared with 67,000 last year as shown in Note 5 on the full audit tender process carried out in May 2014 as described in Accounts.
Non-audit services incurred with PwC in 2015 amounted the 2014 Report and Accounts and concluded that a repeat of to 20,000 and related to recovery of French withholding taxes, this process would not be required in seeking a replacement for compliance with certain other UK and overseas tax regulations and PwC.
EY came a very close second to PwC at that time and hence assistance with conversion of the Companys UK Corporation tax EY has been recommended to become the auditor.
The same EY return into required iXBRL computer format.
The Committee does team that participated in the May 2014 tender process has recently not view these activities as prejudicial to the independence of PwC.
refreshed its audit proposal to the Committee and Board.
The team is Committee evaluation of high quality and experienced in the audit of investment trusts and will further refresh the audit process.
The Board has accepted the The activities of the committee were considered as part of the Board Committees recommendation to appoint EY and this will be put to appraisal process.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting as noted on page 30.
EY currently provide limited tax compliance advice to the Company, in respect of recovery of, and compliance with, US tax on Private Equity investments and Indian tax on capital gains.
To avoid any difficulty with the proposed new FRC regulations, the Committee has required this work to be transferred to another provider and EY has agreed.
Jeffrey Hewitt Audit Committee Chairman The retirement of PwC does not imply any concern with the quality of 7 March 2016 their audit in 2015 or prior years.
From direct observation and indirect enquiry of relevant F&C management, the Committee remains satisfied that PwC has provided appropriate challenge in carrying out their audit responsibilities.
Additionally, during 2015 the audit of the 2014 Report and Accounts by PwC was subject to routine review by the Audit Quality Review AQR team of the FRC.
The AQR team reviews the process of the audit by examining the audit papers and discusses issues with 44 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
