OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Nomination Committee Role of the Committee finance and or capital markets experience, during the course of The primary role of the Committee is to review and make 2016.
Consideration has also been given as to which of the Directors recommendations with regard to Board structure, size and will replace Mr Keljik as Senior Independent Director and the Board composition, the balance of knowledge, experience, skill ranges approved a recommendation from the Committee in March 2016 and diversity and consider succession planning and tenure policy.
that Sir Roger Bone take on the role with effect from 26 April 2016.
All of the Committees responsibilities have been carried out over The final decision with regard to new appointments always rests with the course of 2015 and in January 2016.
The Committee met twice the Board.
during the year and specifically considered, monitored and reviewed the following matters: Diversity and tenure policy The structure and size of the Board and its composition In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee applies the policies particularly in terms of succession planning and the experience of the Board with regard to its belief in the benefits of having a and skills of the individual Directors and diversity across the diverse range of experience, skills and backgrounds, including Board as a whole: gender and length of service.
All appointments will continue to be tenure policy: based on merit and therefore the Board is unwilling to commit to the criteria for future Board appointments and the methods of numerical diversity targets.
The Board is also of the view that length recruitment, selection and appointment: of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or the appointment of new Directors and the reappointment contribution of directors of an investment trust company, where of those Directors standing for re-election at annual general continuity and experience can add significantly to the strength of the meetings: board.
In normal circumstances the Directors are expected to serve the need for any changes in committee membership: for a nine year term, but this may be adjusted for reasons of flexibility the attendance and time commitment of the Directors in fulfilling and continuity.
their duties, including the extent of their other directorships: the question of each Directors independence prior to publication Committee evaluation of the Report and Accounts: The activities of the Committee were considered as part of the Board the authorisation of each Directors situational conflicts of appraisal process.
interests in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the policy and procedures established by the Board in relation to these provisions.
Composition of the Committee Committee membership is listed on pages 26 and 27 On behalf of the Board and its terms of reference can be found on the website at Simon Fraser www.
com Chairman 7 March 2016 Succession planning No new appointments were made to the Board during the year, but this has been under active consideration.
In December 2015 the Committee met to consider the appointment of a search agency for the purpose of seeking a non-executive Director to replace Mr Keljik, who will retire immediately following the Annual General Meeting.
Following a presentation to the Committee in early January 2016, approval was given to appoint Nurole as the search agency.
This agency uses an innovative digital platform designed to assist organisations find the right people and those people to find the right roles by intelligently matching the competencies specified in the role with registered individuals.
The process is underway with a view to appointing one new non-executive Director, with banking, Report and Accounts 2015 | 37
