Corporate Governance Statement Introduction There is no chief executive position within the Company, as day-toThe Board has considered the principles set out in the UK Corporate day management of the Companys affairs has been delegated to Governance Code the UK Code and the AIC Code of Corporate the Manager.
The following table sets out the number of Board and Governance the AIC Code.
The Board believes that during the committee meetings held and attended during the year under review.
period under review the Company has complied with the provisions The Board held a strategy meeting in September 2015 to consider of the UK Code, in so far as they relate to the Companys business.
strategic issues and also met regularly in private session during the The Board is also adhering to the principles and recommendations of year, without any representation from the Manager.
Directors attendance Management AIFMD Audit Nomination Engagement The Company is defined as an AIF under the Alternative Investment Board Committee Committee Committee Fund Managers Directive issued by the European Parliament, which No.
of meetings 9 4 2 2 requires that all AIFs must appoint a Depositary and an Alternative 1 Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board remains fully Simon Fraser 9 4 2 2 responsible for all aspects of the Companys strategy, operations and Sarah Arkle 9 4 n a 2 compliance with regulations.
The Companys AIFM is FCIB.
Sir Roger Bone 9 n a 2 2 Stephen Burley 9 4 n a 2 Articles of association The Companys articles of association may only be amended by Francesca Ecsery 9 n a n a 2 special resolution at general meetings of shareholders.
Jeffrey Hewitt 9 4 n a 2 2 Christopher Keljik 8 3 2 2 The Board 3 Nicholas Moakes 8 n a 2 2 The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs and reviews the schedule of matters reserved for 1 Attends but is not a member of the Audit Committee 2 Absence due to illness its decision.
These are categorised under strategy, policy, finance, 3 Absence for a meeting convened at short notice due to prior commitments risk, investment restrictions, performance, marketing, appointments, the Board and public documents.
It has responsibility for all corporate Each Director has signed a terms of appointment letter with the strategic issues, dividend policy, share buyback and issue policy and Company, in each case including one months notice of termination corporate governance matters which are all reviewed regularly.
These are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and are also available In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors at annual general meetings.
have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers Directors are able to seek independent professional advice at the financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board Companys expense in relation to their duties.
No such advice was taken during the year under review.
The Board has direct access monitors compliance with the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting investment and gearing limits within which the Fund Manager to company secretarial advice and services of the Manager which, has discretion to act, and thus supervises the management of the through the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that Board investment portfolio which is contractually delegated to the Manager.
and Committee procedures are followed and applicable regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and other meetings The Board has the right of veto over the appointment of sub-managers are fully recorded through a process that allows any Directors recommended by the Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board has the power for the approval of Private Equity and unlisted investments and all to appoint or remove the Company Secretary in accordance with investments in in-house funds managed or advised by F&C.
the terms of the investment management agreement.
The powers of the Board relating to the buying back or issuance of the Companys Copies of both codes may be found on the respective websites: www.
uk and shares are explained on pages 11 and 31. www.
Investors in New Zealand should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may differ from those of the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
32 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Appointments Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors must also comply with the Under the articles of association of the Company, the number of statutory rules requiring company directors to declare any interest in an Directors on the Board may be no more than fifteen.
Directors may actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company.
be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
All new appointments by the Board are subject to election Audit Committee by shareholders at the next annual general meeting and institutional The Board has established an Audit Committee, the role and shareholders are given the opportunity to meet any newly appointed responsibilities of which are set out in the report on page 41.
An induction process is in place for new appointees and all Directors are encouraged to attend relevant Management Engagement Committee training courses and seminars.
All the other Directors stand for reThe Board has established a Management Engagement Committee election by shareholders annually.
the role and responsibilities of which are set out on page 35.
Board effectiveness Nomination Committee The 2015 annual appraisal of the Board, the committees and the The Board has established a Nomination Committee the role and individual Directors has been carried out by the Chairman.
This built responsibilities of which are set out on page 37. on the objectives identified from the appraisal for 2013 for which the Chairman was supported by independent consultants, the Board Committee terms of reference Advisory Partnership LLP, and from the objectives set following the The terms of reference for each of the committees are available internal appraisal in 2014 and in January 2015.
The process included on request and can also be found on the Companys website at confidential unattributable one-to-one interviews between the www.
Committee membership is listed on Chairman and each Director.
The Fund Manager, Head of Investment pages 26 and 27 and attendance at meetings on page 32.
Trusts and the Company Secretary also participated to provide allround feedback to the Board.
The appraisal of the Chairman was Remuneration Committee covered as part of the process and led separately by the Senior As the Board has no executive Directors and no employees, and is Independent Director.
The Chairmans report on progress against composed solely of non-executives, it does not have a remuneration the objectives was submitted to the Board in January 2016 and new committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration arrangements objectives set to take this further in the year.
for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Policy and Directors Annual Report on Remuneration Removal of Directors on pages 38 to 40 and in note 5 on the accounts.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office and may by ordinary resolution Relations with shareholders appoint another person who is willing to act to be a Director in his Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
The provisions under which a Director would automatically the annual and half-yearly reports that are available to shareholders, cease to be a Director are set out in the articles of association.
monthly fact sheets and general information are available on the Companys website at www.
Independence of Directors The Board, which is composed solely of independent non-executive A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys institutional Directors, regularly reviews the independence of its members.
shareholders and with private client asset managers.
All the Directors have been assessed by the Board as remaining independent of F&C and of the Company itself: none has a past Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, the Senior or current connection with F&C and each remains independent in Independent Director or any other member of the Board may do character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company relating to the Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
Secretary, at the address set out on page 34.
Conflicts of interest A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or potentially could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts with the interests of the company a situational conflict.
The Board therefore has procedures in place By order of the Board for the authorisation and review of situational conflicts relating to the for and on behalf of Directors.
Limits can be imposed as appropriate.
F&C Investment Business Limited Secretary Other than the formal authorisation of the Directors other 7 March 2016 directorships as situational conflicts, no authorisations have been sought.
These authorisations were reviewed in January 2016, and each Director abstained from voting in respect of their own directorships.
