Governance The Board has an excellent commitment to team performance and a positive determination to drive the business forward.
Our two main committees, Audit and Remuneration, have Chairmans introduction again had a quieter year in terms of their need to adopt new legal and governance requirements.
The Audit Committee Dear shareholder, reports on pages 44 to 48 on how it has risen to the new Welcome to the Boards governance report for 2015. requirements of the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, which has applied to the Company Following the changes that were made in 2014, the Board throughout the financial year.
composition has remained stable during 2015, which has enabled the Non-Executive Directors to build upon their I would also draw your attention to the new requirement knowledge to ensure that they can support and challenge for the Board to make a viability statement.
The Boards the management team in its execution of our strategy.
consideration of this can be found on page 25.
We undertook our first  Board evaluation, I look forward to welcoming shareholders to the AGM which and the results are set out below.
The report concludes that will be held on 10 May 2016 and to receiving and answering there is an excellent commitment to team performance and a your questions.
positive determination to drive the business forward.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank Nigel Davies, of NJMD Ian Durant Corporate Services, for conducting the evaluation on our behalf.
Chairman 1 March 2016 The Board has worked together really well, despite the short terms of office of several of the Non-Executive Directors and I see strong, but challenging, relationships being built with the Chief Executive and his senior team.
We continue to operate in our culture of openness, challenge and debate, and the size of the Board facilitates this.
Each of the NonExecutive Directors serves on each of the three main Board committees and is able to take account of the relationship between the work of the committees.
During the year, the Board has been able to focus on overseeing the delivery by the executive of the key priorities that were set for the business, and as reported elsewhere, we have had another successful year.
As we did for the first time at our 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM, in April 2015, we asked shareholders to vote by poll.
I am pleased to say that the process is now established, and the resolutions were strongly supported by shareholders both institutional and private, for which I offer my thanks on behalf of the Board.
38 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance the strategies proposed by the Chief Executive and the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The edition Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined of the Code issued in September 2014 applied throughout prior to adoption.
This Governance report, together with information contained elsewhere within the Directors report, The Board generally schedules six meetings per year and describes how the relevant principles and provisions of the meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
In 2015 one additional Governance Code were applied in 2015 and will be relevant short meeting was held to consider the plans for the to the Company for the 2016 financial year.
The Company was re-elected to the FTSE 350 index on The Board also holds one session each year, with all of the 22 December 2014 and has remained a constituent of that Operating Board in attendance, to consider strategy and key index throughout 2015.
The Company maintains a Premium priorities in the next financial year.
listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is The Board confirms that it was compliant with the Governance recorded in the table below, where the number of meetings Code throughout the year, and all of the policies and terms of actually attended are shown with the number of meetings that reference referred to in this report are available on the the individual could have attended.
corporate website at: http: corporate.
Audit Remuneration Nominations The Board Main Board Committee Committee Committee Effectiveness Number of The Chairman chairs the Nominations Committee whose meetings held 7 4 3 2 primary function is to consider the blend of skills and experience that the Directors bring to the Board.
This includes Ian Durant 7 7 2 2 independent and objective experience of food retailing and Roger Whiteside 7 7 manufacturing, finance, marketing, property and corporate Richard Hutton 7 7 finance to complement the existing skills and experience of Raymond Reynolds 7 7 the Executive Directors.
1 Helena Ganczakowski 6 7 3 4 3 3 2 2 Allison Kirkby 7 7 4 4 3 3 2 2 The Board meets regularly to discharge its duties.
At these 2 Peter McPhillips 7 7 4 4 2 3 2 2 meetings, it reviews strategy and financial performance against Sandra Turner 7 7 4 4 3 3 2 2 key indicators, resources, risk management and other matters reserved for the Board.
Helena was unable to attend one Board and an Audit Committee meeting held on running the Companys business rests ultimately with the the same day but had reviewed all papers beforehand and provided a number of observations and questions that were raised by other Directors.
Chief Executive, the Non-Executive Directors ensure that 2.
Peter provided his views on the Remuneration Committee meeting that he could not attend, to the Chair in advance.
The Board Remuneration Nominations Audit Committee Chief Executive Committee Committee Operating Board Social Responsibility Risk Committee Steering Group Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Governance continued During the year, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors undertook a number of visits and meetings as part of the day-to-day running of the business, in order to ensure that they were sufficiently well-versed in operations to facilitate strong support and challenge.
This is what the Non-Executive Directors had to say about their experiences: It is important that Non-Executive Directors Seating is what our understand all aspects customers have said of the business, including they want, and we try 3am shop deliveries to accommodate them of fresh sandwich wherever possible.
Allison Kirkby Ian Durant Visit to new Glasgow mall shop Night-time deliveries Freshers Fairs show the potential for Greggs among the student population on campus.
Helena Ganczakowski Attending Freshers Fair with the Marketing team It is critical that we look at our shops as Seeing the supply customers actually chain from crops in experience them, and the field to flour in the hear first-hand their bakery helps to provide feedback.
an understanding of raw Sandra Turner material costs.
Visiting shops with the Retail team Peter McPhillips Accompanying the Commercial Director on a supplier visit 40 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, the Chairman Succession, development and evaluation solicits his or her views on key items of business ahead of the The Board is satisfied that a process is in place for meeting, in order that all individual views are presented at orderly succession to the Board and to positions of senior the meeting.
management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
All Directors are invited to attend the Audit Committee The Chief Executive meets with the Chairman and the and the Chief Executive attends the Remuneration and Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis in order that Nomination Committees.
succession and development plans can be drawn up for Executive Directors and members of the Operating Board.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet formally twice each year and from time to time, as required.
All Directors are able to receive training and to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Board modus operandi Company.
They also have direct access to the Company The Board has a policy on the separation of the roles of the Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman sets the all governance matters.
agenda for Board meetings in accordance with a specific Schedule of Matters Reserved policy which is reviewed and Evaluation approved annually, and ensures that the Board is supplied, The performance of the Board, its Committees and of all in a timely manner, with information in a form and of a quality Directors is evaluated annually by a formal and rigorous process.
appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
In 2014 the Board identified that it should review the way in The Board considers that it effectively leads and controls which social responsibility was positioned at Board meetings the Company.
All Directors take decisions objectively and in to include a consideration of the Companys vision and values.
the interests of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors As a consequence of that review, progress against social scrutinise the performance of management in meeting responsibility priorities were presented at each Board meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of in the same way as the key priorities for the year and at the performance.
All Directors receive induction training on joining strategy meeting held mid-year, the Board approved the social the Board and regularly update and refresh their knowledge responsibility priorities for 2016, alongside its core business plans.
through reading, attendance on relevant courses and or activities outside the Company.
For the first time in 2015 the Board had its annual evaluation facilitated by an external consultant.
The Company Secretary At each Board meeting, the Board receives and discusses conducted an informal tender process, and subsequently reports from each of the Executive Directors and the Company the Board appointed Nigel Davies of NJMD Corporate Secretary.
Additionally, and as part of the process of Services to provide support.
Mr. Davies had no prior link maintaining an awareness of the Companys activities and with the Company.
assessing the ability of the management team, members of the senior management team are invited to attend Board meetings Each Director and the Secretary responded directly to to present papers to the Board.
This process also affords senior Mr. Davies questionnaire, which was followed up with a managers the opportunity to bring matters to the attention face-to-face discussion.
Mr. Davies then prepared a report for of the Board.
During the year, the Board received regular the Board, which was tabled at its meeting in December 2015. updates including: The report concluded that: Key priority progress and strategic developments.
There is an excellent commitment to team performance and a Customer insight, competitor activity, marketing positive determination to drive the business forward We have not found any areas of major concern or identified any matters and category plans.
which are of a particular concern to individual Directors.
Wage negotiations and people issues.
Following a review of the report, the Directors asked a number of questions of themselves, and agreed a number of actions to Food safety and health and safety.
be undertaken during 2016 including: The Board sets itself a rolling agenda, which facilitates agenda planning for scheduled meetings across the year.
Increase formality of risk appetite review.
Introduce formal process for the review of In this way the Board monitors its activities and ensures that it is operating effectively.
Diversity The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least annually without the Executive Directors present, and the The Board believes it is in the best interests of the Company to bring more women through to the top levels of the Senior Independent Director meets the Non-Executive Directors annually without the Chairman present to appraise organisation and, as a result of this belief, a programme was launched in 2012 to encourage women to strive for the most the Chairmans performance.
senior positions in the business.
Our gender reporting is now contained within page 30 of the social responsibility report.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Governance continued Re-election of Directors the Operating Board, visiting bakeries, shops and offices, The Board has resolved that, in line with Governance Code and being provided with an extensive Board Handbook which provision B.
7.1, all Directors will be subject to annual recontains key information and policies that are relevant to the election by shareholders.
Following recommendation by the position.
For new Executive Directors, and Non-Executive Nominations Committee, all of the Non-Executive Directors Directors for whom the appointment is their first to a UK-listed who will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General company, the induction includes details of the legal duties and Meeting are considered by the Board to be independent in obligations of being a Director of the Company.
character and judgement and are free from any business or other relationship or circumstance which is likely to affect or New Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to provide to interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
formal feedback of their first months on the Greggs Board during a scheduled Board meeting.
Board committees The Board delegates some of its activities to the following Risk management committees, each of which has written terms of reference, Details of the Companys principal risks and the management which are available on the Companys website.
The Company of them are set out within the strategic report and given on Secretary acts as secretary to and is in attendance at each of pages 24 to 25. these committees, and each of the committees is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all material controls, The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent including financial, operational, compliance and risk Non-Executive Directors: Allison Kirkby Chair, Helena management systems during the year under review and up Ganczakowski, Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner.
The to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Committee met four times in the year, and a fuller report on its activities is set out on pages 44 to 48.
Relations with shareholders The Board ensures that there is effective communication The Remuneration Committee currently consists of four with individual and institutional shareholders through the independent Non-Executive Directors: Sandra Turner Chair, announcement of regular trading updates, as well as general Helena Ganczakowski, Allison Kirkby and Peter McPhillips.
The presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary Committees main duties that it discharged during the year results and the posting of results on the Companys website.
are set out within the Directors remuneration report which is The Board receives reports on any comments received from set out on pages 49 to 65 of this annual report.
This includes shareholders and market analysts following these presentations.
for information purposes the Boards Policy on Remuneration, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on The Chief Executive and the Finance Director carry out 1 May 2014.
A separate Executive Director committee, after extensive engagement with institutional shareholders and discussion with the Chairman, sets the fees for the Nonmarket analysts, meeting them as part of Company Executive Directors so as to ensure that no Director is involved presentations and briefings, holding individual meetings in setting his or her own remuneration.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Ian Durant The Chairman has undertaken three meetings with significant Chairman and all of the Non-Executive Directors.
The shareholders during the year.
Topics of conversation included Committees main functions which it discharged during the culture, Board composition and executive remuneration.
year are to review the balance and constitution of the Board: to advise the Board as to whether Directors should be The Company Secretary and the Companys Brokers draw nominated for re-election by the members: and to approve the attention of the Board to all relevant shareholder and manage the process for setting the specification for all communications.
The Board also reviews briefings and Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that comments by analysts and shareholders in order to maintain specification and making recommendations to the Board on an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
the basis of merit and compliance with objective criteria in respect of all new Board appointments.
The Annual General Meeting AGM is well attended and a short presentation of business performance is given to In recruiting additional Directors the Nominations Committee attendees by the Chief Executive although no non-public defines the role and uses external consultants to assist in sensitive information is shared.
The Chairman and the Chairs identifying suitable candidates from which the Committee of the Board Committees are available to answer any issues selects a short list and conducts interviews.
The final candidate raised and any newly-appointed Directors being available to is then subject to formal recommendation by the Committee meet shareholders.
During informal sessions both before and and approval by the Board.
after the meeting, the Chairman and all Directors are available to meet with any of the 60 or so individual private shareholders The Nominations Committee did not seek external consultancy who are in attendance and who wish to ask questions.
This is support during 2015. in addition to the opportunity given to shareholders to ask questions of the Board during the formal meeting, which Following appointment, new Directors are subject to an session is always welcomed by those in attendance.
In 2015, in-depth tailored induction process.
In the case of Noninformation stalls were set up at the entrance to the meeting Executive Directors, this includes meeting with members of informing shareholders of the Companys progress on key social responsibility topics, including farm animal welfare.
42 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts At each AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable each resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue All substantial issues, including the receipt of the annual report in operational existence for the next 12 months.
For this reason, and accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing resolutions.
All resolutions were strongly supported by the accounts see basis of preparation on page 76.
For the first shareholders, and were determined by poll, in accordance time, the Board is required to make a viability statement in with best practice.
accordance with Code provision C. 2.2: this can be found on page 25.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve Policies through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Freedom of association or Finance Director, or for circumstances where such contact At Greggs, we recognise the right of all employees to freedom would not be appropriate.
of association and collective bargaining.
Whilst we do not have a formal Freedom of Association policy, the Company The Company provides on its website: www.
co. uk a encourages all its employees in bakeries, shops and offices significant amount of information both about its customer to become, and remain, members of a union.
offerings in the bakery food-on-the-go market, as well as detailed information on the governance arrangements.
Bribery and corruption Greggs has an Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy which Substantial shareholdings applies to all employees and prohibits the offering, giving, At 1 March 2016 the only notified holdings of substantial voting seeking or acceptance of any bribe in any form to any person rights in respect of the issued share capital of the Company or company by anyone acting on its behalf, in order to gain an which may have altered since the date of such notification, advantage in an unethical way.
without any requirement for the Company to have been informed were: Business conduct We have a specific policy that sets out the standards of ethical Percentage Number of of issued behaviour that are expected of all employees.
shares held share capital Old Mutual Group 7,957,333 7.87% Whistle-blowing Our whistle-blowing policy creates an environment where Standard Life 5,153,213 5.09% FMR 5,027,000 4.96% employees are able to raise concerns without fears of disciplinary action being taken against them as a result of any Norges Bank 3,048,851 3.01% disclosure.
Any matters raised are treated in confidence and an independent review will be undertaken where this is Accountability, audit and going concern appropriate.
The Chair of the Audit Committee is the The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a fair, designated first point of contact for any concerns which cannot balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys be addressed through normal management processes.
In order to assist the Board to comply with the requirements within the Governance Code, the Audit Political donations Committee was requested to undertake an assessment of the Greggs has a clear policy forbidding political donations or annual report and to make a recommendation to the Board.
This includes financial and in-kind contributions This request has been enshrined within the Audit Committees made by the Company.
terms of reference, which are available at: www.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The actions undertaken by the Audit Committee in confirming Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval its advice to the Board included the consideration of a detailed of this Directors report confirms that, so far as they are review that has been undertaken by the Head of Business individually aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Assurance and reviewing the annual report as a whole to the Companys auditor is unaware: and that they have taken all conform that it presents a fair, balanced and understandable the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make assessment.
In considering the advice of the Audit Committee, themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to and having reviewed the annual report including the contents establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
of the strategic report on pages 01 to 33, together with the statutory accounts themselves, the Board duly considers the By order of the Board annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the necessary information Jonathan D Jowett for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Company Secretary business model and strategy.
Greggs plc CRN 502851 A statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Fernwood House preparation of accounts is given on page 66.
A statement Clayton Road of auditors responsibilities is given in the report of the auditor Jesmond on page 69.
Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 1TL 1 March 2016 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43
