Audit Committee report The activities of the Committee enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Company.
The Committee will continue to keep its activities under review Introduction in the light of regulatory developments and the emergence of I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee best practice.
In particular, the 2014 UK Corporate Governance for 2015.
Code has taken effect for the first time in our 2015 financial year and we are awaiting finalisation of the UK implementation The Committee plays an important part in the governance of the EU Directive and Regulation on statutory audit.
of the Company with its principal activities focused on the integrity of financial reporting, quality and effectiveness of Overall I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee internal and external audit, risk management and the system enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters of internal control.
impacting the Company during the year, along with oversight of the governance and operation of its key controls and I have set out below the main matters considered by the ultimately to draw the conclusions set out in the report below.
Committee during the year and the conclusions drawn.
We meet formally at key times within our reporting calendar Allison Kirkby and the agendas for our meetings are designed to cover all Chair of the Audit Committee significant areas of risk over the course of the year and to 1 March 2016 provide oversight and challenge to the key financial judgements, controls and processes that operate within the Company.
44 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Composition Meetings during the year The Audit Committee is comprised of the following: The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
Details of Committee members attendance is given on page 39.
Allison Kirkby Chair Helena Ganczakowski The Committee normally invites the Company Chairman, the Peter McPhillips Executive Directors, the Head of Business Assurance and the Sandra Turner external auditor to attend its meetings.
Time is set aside bi-annually for discussion with the external auditor and with the It is the practice of the Company for all independent Head of Business Assurance, in each case in the absence of all Non-Executive Directors to serve as members of the Audit Executive Directors.
The Committee also has access to the Committee.
There have been no changes in the composition Companys management team and to its auditor and can seek of the Committee during 2015. further professional advice, at the Companys cost, if required.
The Chair has regular contact with the Finance Director, and Training is provided for any new members of the Audit internal and external auditors, in addition to scheduled Committee by way of a thorough induction process which Committee meetings to ensure that emerging issues are includes access to the external auditor, the Head of Business addressed.
She also has access to and, in 2015, made contact Assurance and relevant members of management.
with an audit partner independent of the partner responsible for the audit.
The Directors biographies on pages 34 and 35 detail the Committee members previous experience.
The Board Financial reporting considers that Allison Kirkby has recent and relevant financial In 2015 the Audit Committee reviewed the 2014 annual report, experience and is confident that the collective experience interim results, preliminary results announcement and reports of the members enables them to act effectively as an from the external auditor on the outcome of their reviews Audit Committee.
Role and responsibilities During the year, and up to the date of this report, the The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be accessed at: Committee considered key accounting issues and judgements corporate.
co. uk investor-centre corporate-governance and related disclosures in the Groups accounts.
areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2016 The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: are as follows: ensuring that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring the integrity of the accounts and information published by the Company and reviewing significant financial judgements contained in them: advising the Board on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: reviewing the internal financial controls and the Groups approach to risk management: oversight of whistle-blowing arrangements: monitoring compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Governance Code: oversight of the Companys external and internal auditors and reviewing the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Audit Committee report continued Area of focus Action taken Dilapidations Dilapidation provisions have been made based on the future expected The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the need for repair costs required to restore the Groups leased buildings to their fair dilapidation provisions and concluded that the principles applied condition at the end of their respective lease terms, where it is considered were appropriate.
a reliable estimate can be made.
The balance held in respect of dilapidation provisions at the end of the year was 3,343,000 2014: 3,456,000.
Accounting for onerous leases Onerous lease provisions have been made for shops which have been The Committee reviewed managements assessment in respect of these vacated, have been identified for closure or re-site or are not generating leases and concluded that the assumptions made were appropriate.
sufficient profits to cover the lease costs in full.
The key area of judgement in making this provision is the determination of the length of time it will take to find a suitable exit opportunity for each lease.
The onerous lease provision held on the balance sheet at 2 January 2016 is 2,289,000 2014: 3,155,000.
Asset impairment The financial statements include asset impairment provisions made by The Audit Committee considered the sensitivities of the assumptions assessing expected future cash flows.
The results of the impairment reviews used and assessed whether any reversal of impairment was indicated by were presented by management to the Committee based on the following improved trading in the impaired shops.
It concluded that the impairment methodologies.
For shop assets historic cash flows including attributable provisions were appropriate and that they reflected suitably the future plans overheads are used as a base, with a 0% growth rate and a discount rate of of the business.
10% applied over an appropriate period based on the remaining lease term.
For supply chain assets the potential net realisable value of the sites was considered and the net book value of any obsolete equipment compared to its recoverable amount.
The carrying value of fixed assets at the end of the year is reduced by impairment provisions totalling 3,445,000 2014: 4,186,000.
Going concern The accounts continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Information provided by the Finance Director regarding future financial plans, risks and liquidity is presented to the Committee to enable them to determine whether the going concern basis of accounting remained appropriate.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the going concern statement on page 43 of the Directors report.
Viability Recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced a new The Committee reviewed the process undertaken by management to requirement for the Board to consider the period over which they are able support and allow the Directors to make the Groups Viability Statement.
to conclude that the Company will remain viable, having taken into account The Committee considered and provided input into the determination of severe but plausible risks and risk combinations.
On account of this being a which of the Groups principal risks and combinations thereof might have an new requirement, the Committee considered this to be a significant impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency.
The Committee reviewed the reporting matter.
results of managements scenario modelling and the stress testing of these models.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the viability statement on page 25 of the strategic report.
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes The determination of the defined benefit obligation depends on the Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Company by selection of certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation rates independent actuaries.
The Committee assessed the underlying and mortality rates.
assumptions and concluded that they were appropriate and also discussed the appropriateness of the assumptions with the external auditor.
The net liability held in relation to defined benefit pension schemes at the end of 2015 was 3,910,000 2014: 8,518,000.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee is responsible for advising the Board on whether it The Committee received a report from the Head of Business Assurance who believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, is not involved in the preparation of the annual report and accounts and balanced and understandable.
who conducted an independent review of it.
The following factors were considered during the course of this review: ensuring that all the statements are consistent with one another: verifying that figures in the narrative sections are consistent with the relevant financial detail: identifying any duplication of information: confirming that bad news is included, as well as good news: and highlighting any inappropriate use of technical language or jargon.
The Audit Committee considered the feedback from this report alongside its own review of the annual report and accounts when making its recommendation to the Board regarding fair, balanced and understandable.
46 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts The Committee also considered other key accounting issues The Audit Committee favours a presumption that non-audit and related disclosures in the Groups financial statements work will be awarded to a firm other than the audit firm unless as follows: there is a good reason to use the auditors.
An annual base plan for non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is agreed in whether any changes in accounting policy were required advance by the Audit Committee.
Expenditure in accordance following changes in the business or in legislation: with this plan can then be committed without further referral whether the Companys tax policy remains appropriate: to the Audit Committee.
Expenditure that is not included in the the impact of changes in accounting standards and their agreed plan is subject to strict authority limits and is reviewed relevance, if any, to the Company: and by the Committee.
reports from the Company Secretary and Finance Director which assess the Companys compliance with Listing Rules.
All use of the external auditor for non-audit work must be reported to and approved by the Committee.
In circumstances External audit where non-audit fees are significant relative to the audit fee, Assessing external audit effectiveness an explanation would be provided in the subsequent Audit The Audit Committee discussed and agreed the scope of the Committee report.
In addition, the Audit Committee ensures audit with the external auditor and agreed their fees in respect that the external auditor has its own policies and is subject to of the audit.
professional standards designed to safeguard their independence as auditor.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit in line with the Financial Reporting Councils Practice aid The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied for audit committees which was issued in 2015.
It considered that, the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, continues to be the results of external quality inspections by the Audit Quality objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG LLP Inspection Team of KPMG.
It sought feedback from senior does perform non-audit services for the Group but the Audit management, by way of a detailed questionnaire, in respect of Committee is satisfied that its objectivity is not impaired the effectiveness of the audit process with particular reference by such work.
to audit planning and design and audit execution.
The FRC have yet to conclude their deliberations on the The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the audit implementation of the EC Audit Directive and Regulation in through the reporting from and communications with the the UK.
Their consultation document and emerging best auditor and an assessment of the auditors approach to key practice suggest that KPMG will not be able to undertake any areas of judgement and any errors identified during the course blacklisted non-audit work if they remain as auditor beyond of the audit.
the effective date for the EU implementation of 17 June 2016, but the Committee will review the position once the FRC The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that guidance has been finalised and take appropriate action the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor be at that time.
In 2015, non-audit fees paid to KPMG LLP and related KPMG Appointing the auditor and safeguards on non-audit services operations amounted to 52,000 which is 37 per cent of the KPMG has been the Companys auditor for more than 20 years audit fee for the year and principally related to taxation and the transitional rules in the EU Directive require an initial services and pension scheme audits.
change of audit firms no later than 2020.
Having reappointed KPMG in 2014 following a competitive tender, the Committee Reappointment of auditor expects to change audit firms in accordance with the In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, requirements of the EU Directive.
The Committee will continue a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP will be to consider annually whether to conduct an audit tender for proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
audit quality or independence reasons.
Risk management and internal control It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the Internal Control independence and objectivity of the external auditor including The Committee reviewed the Companys internal control the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by it and its environment to satisfy itself that procedures are in place suitability for re-appointment.
to ensure that assets are well protected, authority levels for expenditure are clear, segregation of duties exists and The Company has a formal policy to ensure that the performance is regularly monitored.
Processes are in place provision of non-audit services by the external auditor does to ensure that key controls are being operated and compliance not compromise the auditors independence or objectivity.
with these processes is the subject of inspection by the Internal It monitors the level and type of non-audit fees on an annual Audit team and subsequent review by the Audit Committee.
basis and ensures that the overall level of non-audit fees remains in line with current ethical guidance governing the accounting profession.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Audit Committee report continued Whistle-blowing The Companys whistle-blowing policy is made available to all employees through the intranet, as well as via posters displayed across the business.
This gives information regarding how to raise a concern in strict confidence.
Three reports were made during the year, all relating to health and safety issues.
The events were reported either directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee by telephone or email, or came in via another external route.
In each case the issues were investigated, a judgement was made and action taken by senior management, supported by Business Assurance and with an appropriate level of discretion.
The outcome of all matters was reported to the Board during the year.
The Companys Business Conduct policy, which documents the whistle-blowing procedures, has been refreshed during the year.
Risk management process The Audit Committee undertakes a review of the risk management process in the Group at least annually, as set out in its Terms of Reference.
The process is detailed on page 24, and has been reviewed by the Committee to confirm its appropriateness in light of the risks identified.
The key areas that the Committee has specifically considered are as follows: Area of focus Action taken Review of principal risks and uncertainties The Committee considered the proposed disclosure of principal risks and uncertainties within the annual report which had resulted from the Risk Committees review of the risks facing the Company.
The Committee recommended a focus on those risks to which Greggs is more exposed than its peers, to provide greater clarity.
SAP implementation The Committee has received regular updates on the implementation plans for SAP, including timeframes, resource requirements and governance arrangements.
Insurance review A major tendering exercise of the Companys insurance provision was undertaken in 2014, and the Audit Committee evaluated the outcome of this to ensure that it was satisfied with the arrangements in place.
Resource levels within the Finance function The Committee considered the resourcing of the Finance team, particularly with regard to the implementation of the relevant modules within the SAP programme.
It concluded that recent appointments provided an appropriate balance of skills within the team.
Cyber risk assessment The Audit Committee Chair completed the Governments Cyber Governance Health Check 2015 by means of a questionnaire to assess the Boards view of Greggs management of cyber risk.
This identified five low risk areas where additional focus is required and actions are in progress to address each of these.
No significant areas of concern were noted.
Internal audit The work of the Internal Audit function is set out in more detail within the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 24 to 25 of this annual report.
The team is led by the Head of Business Assurance, supported by the Risk Manager, the Information Security & Compliance Manager and 16 auditors, the majority of whom work across the retail estate to provide assurance over the Companys retail operations.
The Audit Committee approves the annual plan for the team and monitors progress against that plan.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit team and its level of resource are reviewed by the Committee at least annually.
Committee effectiveness Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance and considers where improvements can be made.
Allison Kirkby Chair of the Audit Committee 1 March 2016 48 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
