CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT our Company Secretary.
The Board also has management.
It ensures that risk, regulatory Statement of compliance overall responsibility for the Groups system of and compliance management within the with the UK Corporate internal controls and risk management.
The Board reviews management arrangements are described performance, including that of the senior Governance Code below.
The Board is also responsible for engaging with shareholders.
It is the decision-making body GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK We support the UK Corporate Governance for all other matters deemed material to the Code published by the Financial Reporting Group in strategic, financial and reputational The Group operates within a clear governance Council the Code.
We confirm that the terms.
framework which is set out in the report that Group complied with all of the provisions of follows.
The Groups internal control and risk the Code throughout the year ended 30 June The Executive Directors are directly management framework is described below in 2015 and can confirm that the Board believes responsible for running the business the Internal Controls section.
the Annual Report and Financial Statements operations.
The Non-Executive Directors are for 2015 taken as a whole, are fair, balanced, responsible for constructively challenging Certain responsibilities of the Board are understandable and provide the information proposals on strategy, scrutinising the delegated to the Board Committees to assist necessary for shareholders to assess our performance of management, determining the Board in carrying out its functions and performance, business model and strategy.
levels of remuneration and for succession to ensure independent oversight of internal planning.
The Non-Executive Directors must control and risk management.
Other nonFurther explanation of how the main also satisfy themselves on the integrity board committees form part of the Corporate principles and supporting principles of the of financial information and that financial Governance framework, but are not formally Code have been applied is set out in this controls and systems of risk management are appointed committees of the Board.
These Corporate Governance statement and in the robust.
committees feed back to the main Board and Directors Remuneration Report.
A copy Board Committees via an Executive Director of the Code is publicly available on the The Directors are also responsible for where appropriate.
Financial Reporting Councils website at ensuring that obligations to shareholders www.
and other stakeholders are understood and met, and that a satisfactory dialogue with BOARD SIZE, COMPOSITION AND CHANGES The Companys auditor, PwC, is required shareholders is maintained.
All Directors are DURING THE YEAR to review whether the above statement equally accountable to our shareholders for reflects the Companys compliance with the the proper stewardship of our affairs and the As at 30 June 2015 there were six Directors provisions of the UK Corporate Governance success of the Company.
on the Board: the Chairman, four independent Code specified for its review by the Listing Non-Executive Directors, and one Executive Rules and to report if it does not reflect such Except for a formal schedule of matters Director.
The size and composition of the compliance: no such report has been made.
reserved for decision by the Board, the Board has delegated the day-to-day management Board is regularly reviewed by the Board and, of the Group to the Chief Executive who is in particular the Nominations Committee, supported by the Executive Committee and to ensure that there is an appropriate and senior management.
The Chief Executive diverse mix of skills and experience.
and Executive Directors of the Group are The Board responsible to the Board for developing During the year, the following changes were strategy and the profitability and overall made: performance of the Group.
Tracey Taylor stood down from the Board as ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE There is a documented schedule of matters Chief Financial Officer on 5 December 2014: BOARD which are reserved for Board decision and and Peter Hargreaves stood down from the approval.
These matters are significant to Board as Executive Director on 14 April 2015.
The Board has overall responsibility for the the Group as a whole due to their strategic, management and performance of the Group.
financial or reputational implications, and Simon Cleveland, a partner in Deloitte LLP, It sets the strategic direction of the Group, include, but are not limited to, the agreement was contracted as Interim CFO until the new monitors performance, determines the of strategies, recommendation of dividends, permanent CFO, Chris Hill, joins the Group in appropriate risk appetite, and ensures that approval of acquisitions and major capital 2016, subject to Regulatory Approval.
Simon sufficient resources in talent and capital are expenditure.
In addition, it is only the Board Cleveland does not serve on the Board of in place to achieve the objectives set and which can appoint and remove Directors and Directors.
ensures solid succession planning for senior 36 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 GOVERNANCE financial year and the Board convened eleven After the year end, the Group announced that the requirements set out above, Hargreaves Lansdown will aim to maintain female times in the last financial year.
Four of these Dharmash Mistry would step down from the representation on the Board at least at the were physical meetings and seven were Board on 31 August 2015 and a new noncurrent level and give due consideration to conference calls.
executive director had been selected, subject increasing the level if appropriate candidates to Regulatory Approval, who is expected to are available when Board vacancies arise.
Physical meetings are held in such a way join the Board immediately after the AGM in as to encourage robust and constructive October.
A copy of our full statement on Board challenge and debate which enables the NonDiversity can be found on www.
Executive Directors to use their knowledge Details on our Board members, including and experience to critically review strategies other directorships, are on pages 34 and 35. proposed by management.
This approach THE ROLES OF CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF ensures that we act in the long-term best EXECUTIVE interests of our shareholders.
INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Between Board meetings, Directors are also are clearly defined, separate and approved by provided with monthly information packs The Code sets out the circumstances the Board.
which include detailed commentary and that should be relevant to the Board in analysis.
To ensure that Directors are as fully determining whether each Non-Executive The Chairman is responsible for the informed as possible, minutes are circulated Director is independent.
We have given operation, leadership and governance of from each Committee, including the Executive due regard to provision B.
1.1 of the UK the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and Committee, and each Board meeting includes Corporate Governance Code and the Board setting its agenda.
In conjunction with the a report from the Committee Chairmen as has concluded that Dharmash Mistry, Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the appropriate.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Stephen Robertson, Chris Barling and Chairman plans agenda items and timings for Directors have also held meetings separate to Shirley Garrood were independent directors Board meetings.
The Chairman ensures that those with the Executive Directors, including throughout the financial year.
Michael the membership of the Board is appropriate meeting with the external auditor and the Evans was independent on appointment as to the needs of the business and that Board Head of Internal Audit.
Chris Barling is currently the Senior Committees carry out their duties, including Independent Non-Executive Director.
reporting back to the Board.
DIRECTORS The Chief Executive has executive DIVERSITY responsibilities for the operations, results Under the existing Articles of Association and strategic development of the Group.
He all directors have to submit themselves for When assessing new appointments to our is responsible for the delivery of strategy and re-election annually if they wish to continue Board, we review carefully the combined leads the executive management team.
serving and are considered by the Board to skills and experience of the existing Board be eligible.
Other than Dharmash Mistry, members to determine what characteristics who stood down on 31 August 2015, all we are looking for from a new director.
Each BOARD SUPPORT other current directors wish to be re-elected member of the Hargreaves Lansdown Board and the Board confirms that all individual must have the skills, experience and character The Company Secretary is responsible to performance reviews demonstrated that the that will enable each director to contribute the Board for ensuring Board procedures are directors continue to demonstrate effective both individually, and as part of the team, to followed, applicable rules and regulations are performance and commitment to their roles.
the effectiveness of the Board and the success complied with and that the Board is advised of the Company.
We believe that diversity on governance and relevant regulatory amongst Board members is of great value but matters.
All Directors have access to the TRAINING that diversity is a far wider subject than just services of the Company Secretary.
We will give careful consideration to for Directors to fulfil their duties they can also Our Chairman is responsible for preparing issues of overall Board balance and diversity seek independent professional advice, at the and implementing a personalised induction in making new appointments to the Board.
programme for all new Directors, to include guidance as to their duties, responsibilities As at 30 June 2015, the Board numbers six and liabilities as a director of the Company.
in total, of which one is executive and five BOARD MEETINGS We believe that the best way to learn about independent including the Chairman.
Female a business is to spend time within it, and directors constitute 17% of the Board and The Board convenes at least four times each we encourage new Directors to spend time 10% of the Executive Committee.
Subject to Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED with our senior managers and executives in A number of recommendations have been independent oversight of internal control a number of business areas and to receive made and these will be implemented over and risk management.
The three principal demonstrations of key operations and the course of the next year.
These include an Board Committees Audit, Remuneration, systems where relevant.
increase in the frequency of Board meetings and Nomination play an essential role and the time allotted for the formal Board in supporting the Board in fulfilling its cycle, introduction of a rolling twelve month Every Director has access to appropriate responsibilities.
The Risk Committee became agenda, and an increase in the engagement of training throughout their appointment a formally appointed committee of the Board the Non-Executive Directors with management as director and we regularly assess the from October 2014.
The Chairman of each outside of Board meetings.
An internal review requirement for director training as part of Committee reports to the Board.
The minutes will be carried out in six months time to each Directors annual appraisal.
of each Board Committee meeting are ensure that progress is maintained.
Our overall objective is to maintain and Individual appraisal of each Executive enhance professional standards for all our The Board Committees all have formal terms Directors performance is undertaken by either employees.
We believe that these standards of reference that have been approved by the the Chief Executive or Chairman each year are particularly important for all staff who Board, and performance of the Committees and involves meetings with each director fall under the scope of the FCA Training and is assessed annually by the Board.
All staff under the scope Committees terms of reference sets out the Directors, led by the Senior Independent of these rules are required to perform certain specific matters for which delegated authority Director, carry out an appraisal of the training annually.
has been given by the Board.
These terms performance of the Chairman.
The Chief of reference are reviewed annually and the Executives performance was evaluated by We have also introduced an E-learning terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, the Chairman with input from the rest of the platform for all staff, and a talent development Nomination and Risk Committee are available Board.
Further on the Groups website www.
co. uk details are available on page 31. investor-relations.
A summary of the terms of reference for each committee is included in OTHER INFORMATION the committee summaries below.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND Certain additional information in relation to PERFORMANCE EVALUATION the Companys share capital, the powers of AUDIT COMMITTEE directors and amendments to the Articles of During the course of the year, the Board Association that is required to be disclosed has made good progress against its agreed Details of the composition and work of the pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the actions arising out of the 2014 Board review.
Audit Committee are provided in the Audit Directors Report on pages 63 to 65.
Specifically it has achieved greater strategic Committee Report on pages 44 to 46. focus, improved the quality, timeliness and method of delivery of Board information, and created a new Risk Committee.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Board committees For its review in 2015, the Board carried out Details of the composition and work of the an externally facilitated Board effectiveness Remuneration Committee are provided in the review.
The review was carried out by Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 Independent Audit Limited, and covered This section of the report sets out how the to 62. the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, Board and its Committees work within the its individual Directors and its Committees.
Groups governance framework and corporate One to one discussions were held with the governance guidelines.
RISK COMMITTEE Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive, a number of subsidiary The Board is authorised to manage the The Risk Committee is responsible for company directors and the Company business of the Company in accordance with advising the Board on overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy and for assessing the Secretary.
The reviewer observed the the Companys Articles of Association.
The risk management processes embedded within Board and Committee meetings in April.
Articles of Association may be amended by the business.
It oversees and feeds back to All Directors were given the opportunity to special resolution of shareholders, unless the Board on current risk exposures, and is provide comments on the draft report.
The the Articles specify otherwise.
Certain responsible for reviewing and recommending effectiveness review was discussed and responsibilities of the Board are delegated to the Board the Groups Internal Capital approved at the Board meeting on 1 July 2015. to the Board Committees to assist the Board Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
in carrying out its functions and to ensure 38 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 GOVERNANCE Barling, Dharmash Mistry, Shirley Garrood and The Committee also reports back to the Board Other committees Stephen Robertson.
on the management of the major risks facing the Group as assessed against the Groups The Nomination Committee meets at least Risk Appetite.
Further information about the twice each year and the Committee met three Key Risks facing the Group are on pages 26 These committees form part of the Corporate times during this year.
Governance framework, but are not formally each director is set out in the table on page appointed Non-Executive committees of 40.
From 1 October 2014, the Risk Committee the Board.
The main Committees are the became a formal Board Committee.
Until this Executive Committee, the Investment We have a formal, rigorous and transparent date, the Risk Committee was chaired by the Committee, and the Treasury Committee: procedure for the appointment of new Chief Operating Officer and also comprised the directors to the Board.
The process involves Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, IT Director, the Nomination Committee interviewing Operations Director, Marketing Director and a EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE suitable candidates who are proposed by Non-Executive Director.
existing Board members, by an external The Board has delegated full authority to search company, or via searches performed From 1 October 2014, the Committee is the Executive Committee subject to a list of by the Company itself.
Consideration will be chaired by Michael Evans, and comprises matters which are reserved for decision by given to ensure appointees have enough time Shirley Garrood, Chris Barling and Stephen the full Board only.
In particular, the Executive available to devote to the role and that the Robertson.
The subsidiary directors are Committee is responsible to the Chief balance of skills, knowledge and experience invited to attend as necessary.
Executive for developing and monitoring every on the Board will be maintained.
When the aspect of the Groups business on a continuing Committee has found a suitable candidate, The Risk Committee meets at least four basis, for developing and implementing the Chairman of the Committee will make times each year and the Committee met four business strategy as agreed by the Board a proposal to the whole Board and the times during this year.
The attendance by and ensuring that day-to-day operations are appointment is the responsibility of the whole each director, since the date the Committee conducted in accordance with the relevant Board following recommendation from the became a formal Board Committee, is set out regulatory and statutory requirements.
During the year, the Executive Committee meets at least quarterly Committee reviewed and approved its terms but more frequently when required, and met During the year the Committee engaged an of reference, considered the appropriateness five times during the current financial year.
external search company to lead the search of the risk framework, reviewed the risk The attendance by each director is set out in for a new Chief Financial Officer.
After the year appetite, and challenged and approved the the table on page 40. end, the Group announced the appointment of ICAAP for recommendation to the Board.
At Chris Hill, subject to Regulatory Approval, who each meeting, the Executive Risk Register The Executive Committee is chaired by the is expected to join the Group in early 2016. was reviewed, emerging risks deliberated, Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, and in his incident reporting discussed and emerging absence by Ian Hunter.
During the year the During the year the Committee initiated a themes considered.
Appropriate focus was committee also comprised the following: search for a new Non-Executive Director given to cyber and fraud detection, the annual who would be capable of becoming Chair of report from the MLRO was approved as was a Peter Hargreaves Executive Director the Investment Committee.
The Committee report on conflicts of interest and prevention stood down 14th April 2015 utilised the Groups extensive links with the of bribery.
Tracey Taylor Chief Financial Officer Investment community to generate a long stood down 5th December 2014 list of potential candidates.
The selected Nigel Bence Chief Operating Officer candidate, subject to Regulatory Approval, is NOMINATION COMMITTEE stood down 5th December 2014 expected to join the Board immediately after David Davies Chief Information Officer the AGM.
The Nomination Committee leads the process Nick Marson Operations Director stood for Board appointments, re-election and down 7th September The Committee has reviewed the succession succession of directors and the Chairman.
It Ian Hunter Marketing Director plans for the senior management team and is responsible for making recommendations Vikki Williams Chief Operating Officer considered individuals with the potential to to the Board concerning the composition appointed 1st June 2015 take on management positions in the future.
and skills of the Board including proposed The Board continues to keep the organisation appointees to the Board and the membership Michael Evans, Mark Dampier, Lee Gardhouse, structure under review and succession will of the Committees.
The Committee is chaired Stuart Louden, Rob Byett and Chris Worle by Michael Evans and the Committees form part of these discussions.
are invited to attend the Executive other members at 30 June 2015 were Chris Committee.
From 1 July 2015, Mark Dampier, Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Lee Gardhouse, Stuart Louden, Rob Byett and TREASURY COMMITTEE Chris Worle were all appointed members of the Executive Committee.
Biographies of the The Treasury Committee recommends above are available on our website: www.
and oversees changes to the treasury hl.
We also have an Interest Rate Committee, INVESTMENT COMMITTEE CASS Oversight Committee and three Project Boards.
The Investment Committee is responsible for monitoring the investments held within the HL Multi-Manager funds.
It is also responsible for ensuring that there are no conflicts of interest between the HL Multi-Manager funds and clients investing with the Group on an execution only basis.
The Investment Committee meets at least four times a year and met four times during this year.
From 1 July 2015, the Investment Committee formally reports to the PLC Board, and will in due course be chaired by an independent NonExecutive Director.
Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee Board Board calls Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Risk Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Directors Ian Gorham 4 4 7 7 - - - 5 5 - 1 Peter Hargreaves 3 3 3 6 - - - 3 5 - 2 Tracey Taylor 2 2 3 4 - - - 2 3 - Michael Evans 4 4 7 7 - 9 9 3 3 - 3 3 Chris Barling 4 4 5 7 5 5 9 9 3 3 - 3 3 Dharmash Mistry 4 4 4 7 5 5 7 9 3 3 - - Stephen Robertson 4 4 4 7 5 5 - 3 3 - 3 3 Shirley Garrood 4 4 6 7 5 5 7 9 3 3 - 3 3 Executive Committee 3 Nigel Bence - - - - - 2 3 - Nick Marson - - - - - 4 5 - Ian Hunter - - - - - 5 5 - David Davies - - - - - 4 5 - Where Board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice.
In addition to the four scheduled Board meetings during the year, seven additional Board calls were held as updates or to deal with specific matters between the formal Board meetings.
Represents the number of meetings held since 1 October 2014, at which date the Risk Committee became a formal Board Committee.
1 Attendance represents number of meetings prior to stepping down in April 2015.
2 Attendance represents number of meetings prior to stepping down in December 2014.
3 Attendance represents number of meetings prior to stepping down in December 2014.
40 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 GOVERNANCE were to appoint or re-appoint directors, Relations with the votes were shown with and without shareholders the votes of the controlling shareholder Peter Hargreaves.
There is a Relationship Agreement in place between Peter Hargreaves and the Company to ensure that We are committed to maintaining good the independence provisions as set out in the communications with our shareholders.
We Listing Rules are complied with.
The terms of have a programme of communication with the agreement have been fully complied with.
shareholders based on our financial reporting Following the AGM, the results of voting are calendar including the interim and annual published through a Regulatory Information reports, Interim Management Statements, Service and on our website.
the Annual General Meeting AGM and the Investor Relations section of the corporate website at www.
In addition to this, the Chief Executive and Internal controls Chief Financial Officer meet with institutional investors after results announcements and upon request on an ad hoc basis during the year.
They, together with the INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Company Secretary and Head of Investor Relations, also provide a point of contact The Board is responsible for the effectiveness for investors who wish to raise questions, of the Groups systems of internal control and queries or concerns.
Chris Barling, our Senior risk management, the key features of which are Independent Non-Executive Director, is also outlined in the following chart and detailed below.
available to meet key investors.
Through the monitoring processes set out Following dialogue with individual below, the Board has conducted a review of institutional shareholders, the Chairman, the effectiveness of the system of internal Chief Executive and the Chief Financial control during the year ended 30 June 2015 Officer ensured the Board was fully briefed and until the date of approval of this Report on shareholders views such that any and Financial Statements.
issues or concerns were fully understood and considered by the Board.
Analyst and The system of internal control is designed broker briefings are regularly provided to to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk the Board.
In addition, the Groups brokers of failure to achieve business objectives.
sought feedback from investors following the It provides reasonable but not absolute 2014 final and 2015 interim results, and this assurance as to the effectiveness of the feedback was reported to the Board.
safeguards protecting the business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
In All Directors made themselves available that context, the review, in the opinion of the to meet shareholders at our AGM and Board, did not indicate that the system was they value the opportunity of welcoming ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board individual shareholders and other investors is not aware of any change to this status to communicate directly and address their up to the date of approval of this Annual questions.
However, in acknowledgement that the business and the risks it faces are To ensure compliance with the Code, at continually evolving and as part of a process all general meetings separate resolutions of continuous improvement, steps are being are proposed on each discrete subject.
taken to further embed internal controls and Resolutions have been passed on a show risk management into business operations.
of hands, and proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution are displayed at the meeting.
Where the resolutions Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 41 Internal controls Key features of the internal control framework Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board Risk Audit Executive Committee Committee Committee Management Committees Risk and Internal Compliance Audit Operational departments FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE SECOND THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE LINE OF DEFENCE GROUP RISK STRATEGY TERMS OF REFERENCE The Board regularly reviews the Groups policies which are in place to manage the The Group Risk Strategy requires senior The Board operates within clearly defined Groups exposure to risks, such as treasury, managers to identify, evaluate and manage terms of reference, and it reserves certain interest rate risk and counterparty risk.
Our risks in their business units.
Risk registers matters for its own consideration and public interest disclosure whistleblowing are kept at department level and regular decision.
It has established appropriate policy encourages employees to raise meetings are held between department committees to oversee control activities.
concerns about anything that they suspect managers and members of the Risk team These committees also have clearly is fraudulent, corrupt, dangerous or seriously to ensure that risk management remains defined terms of reference.
They can raise concerns on a high on the agenda of the business.
Target Committee processes are fundamental to the confidential basis, enabling proportionate and dates for resolution of issues are continually effectiveness of our internal controls.
independent investigation to be undertaken.
A summary of significant risks is We thoroughly investigate any allegations of provided within the Business Review.
misconduct and irregularity and consider the ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE AND implications for our control environment.
Risk management processes within the Group POLICIES accord with the Internal Control: Guidance to Due to the nature of our business, we are Directors formerly the Turnbull guidance, The Board regularly reviews the Groups subject to attempted external fraud on a and are supported by reports from the organisational structure to seek to ensure regular basis.
Strict processes and controls Internal Audit function which include focus on that clearly defined lines of responsibility mean that we are able to identify attacks significant risks faced by the Group.
exist, with appropriate delegation of and deal with them appropriately on a timely authority.
Roles and responsibilities are basis.
We are continually looking at ways clearly communicated to each member of of making our clients transactions with us MANAGEMENT INFORMATION staff within their Apportionment Forms.
more secure and have dedicated resource These forms are reviewed annually and within the business whose focus is on Detailed packs of key information are updated if necessary.
We also employ external consultants to test our defences and to circulated monthly to our senior management minimise fraud risk.
Our 42 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 External Audit GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL AUDIT AND REGULATORY business performance is monitored closely companies can only aspire to and ensures SUPERVISION by the Board and senior management, in that the requirements of our clients are particular monitoring of: foremost in our employees decision making The majority of the activities of the Group, process.
including the systems of business control, progress towards strategic objectives: are subject to supervision by the Financial financial performance, within a Conduct Authority.
The Group is required on framework including forecasting, GROUP FINANCE a regular basis to submit detailed prudential financial reporting, reviewing variances and statistical returns covering all areas of against plan and prior year and taking The Group Finance department manages its business and meets regularly with its appropriate management action: and our financial reporting processes to ensure the information which enables our Board supervisors, conducting the relationship in an risk management processes.
to discharge its responsibilities is provided open and constructive manner.
In addition, on a timely basis.
It ensures cost controls the Audit Committee also receives reports are in place and that the business efficiently from our external auditor.
RISK COMMITTEE manages its resources.
It also produces a financial forecast based on the strategic and The Risk Committee reports to the Board operational plans of the business which is on the management of the major risks and continuously reviewed and is used to plan emerging risks facing the Group as assessed and review regulatory capital requirements.
against the Groups Risk Appetite.
GROUP LEGAL REMUNERATION POLICY The Group Legal department ensures Risk management is embedded into the appropriate controls are in place to assist the Apportionment Forms of every employee business in both fulfilling its legal obligations and awareness and mitigation of the risks and to ensure that any unnecessary risks are faced by the Company are key factors used avoided or mitigated.
This policy creates an environment which ensures excessive risk taking is not rewarded.
We GROUP COMPLIANCE believe that nothing will better encourage employees to look after the long-term Our Compliance function manages future of the Group than being shareholders relationships with the Groups key regulators themselves, and so staff have the opportunity alongside identifying major compliance and to invest in regular Save As You Earn share regulatory risks.
Our Money Laundering schemes and exceptional performance by Reporting Officer MLRO is part of the Risk key employees and senior managers will be and Financial Crime team and is responsible rewarded with the grant of executive share for ensuring we have suitable anti-money awards.
laundering AML procedures and controls, and adequate AML training for all staff.
The MLRO specifically considers the risk of loss OUR VALUES AND CULTURE through financial crime and the controls in place to mitigate the risk of such loss.
Any system of internal control is dependent on the people operating it.
Our Culture defines what we expect from our people.
INTERNAL AUDIT We pride ourselves on the culture which exists within the Company.
We have a oneOur Internal Audit function reports to the firm mentality which helps everyone take Audit Committee on the effectiveness of key responsibility for the whole of the business.
We have a saying success comes from putting the client first, Hargreaves Lansdown second and your department third.
This engenders service levels which many other Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 43
