AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT members to carry out their duties.
The taking into consideration relevant UK induction programme covers the role of the professional and regulatory requirements: Audit Committee, its terms of reference and and expected time commitment by members, and overseeing the Groups procedures for public interest disclosure an overview of the Groups business, including whistleblowing.
the main business and financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members also meet some of the Groups staff, as appropriate.
OnThe Audit Committee reports its findings going training includes attendance at formal to the Board, identifying any matters in conferences, internal briefings and briefings by respect of which it considers that action external advisers.
or improvement is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
However, the Board retains ultimate MEETINGS responsibility for reviewing and approving Shirley Garrood financial reports and other public statements.
The Audit Committee meets at least four Chairman of the Audit Committee times each year but more frequently when The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be required, and met five times during this available at the Annual General Meeting to financial year.
The attendance by each The responsibilities of the Audit Committee answer any questions about the work of the director is set out in the table on page 40. are set out in its Terms of Reference, Committee.
The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, Chief which are designed to assist the Board in Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and discharging its responsibilities for: Chief Executive are routinely invited to, and COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE attend, the majority of meetings, although the monitoring the financial reporting process Committee reserves the right to request any including the integrity of our annual and The members of the Audit Committee at 30 of these individuals to withdraw.
The external interim reports, preliminary results and June 2015 were: auditor also attended all meetings.
any other formal announcements relating Shirley Garrood Chairman Chartered to financial performance: Accountant appointed 25 October 2013 In between the formal schedule of meetings, ensuring that the integrity of our Annual Chris Barling appointed 26 August 2010 the Committee Chairman keeps in regular Report and Financial Statements, taken as Dharmash Mistry appointed 3 October 2011 contact with the Chief Executive, Chief a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable Stephen Robertson appointed 3 October Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit, Chief and provides shareholders with the 2011 Risk Officer and the Senior Engagement information necessary to assess the Partner of the external auditor.
Companys performance, business model All members of the Committee are and strategy: independent.
The biographies of Committee reviewing the Groups internal financial members can be found on pages 34 to 35.
OVERVIEW OF THE ACTIONS TAKEN BY controls and the Groups internal control THE AUDIT COMMITTEE TO DISCHARGE ITS and risk management systems: On an on-going basis, membership of the DUTIES reviewing the statements to be included Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the in the Annual Report and Financial Committee and any recommendations for new In discharging its responsibilities the Audit Statements concerning internal controls: appointments are made to the Nomination Committee concentrated on 5 main areas: monitoring and reviewing the Committee for onward recommendation to the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit Board.
Appointments are for a period of three Financial Reporting function: years and are extendable by no more than two Internal controls and key risks making recommendations to the additional three-year periods.
The UK Corporate Effectiveness of the Audit Committee Board, for a resolution to be put to the Governance Code requires the inclusion of at Effectiveness of Internal Audit shareholders for their approval in general least one member with recent and relevant Effectiveness and independence of the meetings in relation to the appointment financial experience and our Committee external auditor or removal of the external auditor and the Chairman currently fulfils this requirement.
approval of the remuneration and terms 1.
Financial Reporting of engagement of the external auditor: The Group provides an induction programme With support and input from the external reviewing and monitoring the external for new Audit Committee members and onauditor, the Committee has considered, auditors independence and objectivity going training to enable all of the Committee challenged and reviewed financial reporting and the effectiveness of the audit process, 44 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 GOVERNANCE performance, business model and strategy.
The for the Group, assessed whether suitable Given the nature of HLs business, the revenue stream is non-complex, being Committee examined the 2015 Annual Report accounting policies have been adopted, mainly high volume, low value transactions and Financial Statements and was specifically whether management have made appropriate which turn into cash quickly, therefore tasked by the Board to advise it on whether the estimates and judgements and whether the degree of judgement required over report is fair, balanced and understandable.
disclosures in published financial statements this significant area is limited.
Whilst were fair, balanced and understandable.
considering revenue, the Committee The Committee did this by satisfying itself received information from the Chief Financial that there is a robust process of challenge, The Committee has also considered, Officer CFO, the finance team and the including challenge by the Committee itself.
challenged and reviewed regular financial external auditor.
The Committee reviewed The Committees own challenge process management information, the Groups internal and discussed monthly management included questioning the Chief Executive on capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP information during the year including the overall messages and tone of his review document and risk appetite statement until absolute levels of revenue and variances statement, examining and challenging reports the formation of the Risk Committee during in revenue between 2014 and 2015, from both management and the external the year.
with particular emphasis on the impact auditor relating to the Annual Report, and of RDR changes and reduced interest reviewing consistency with internal reports The integrity of the financial statements is rates.
Information is also provided to the presented to the Board by management, underpinned by the control environment.
In committee on the performance of cash the Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal this regard, the Committee has considered reconciliations, stock reconciliations and Audit and Chief Risk Officer during the year.
risk and control reports from the Head of client account reconciliations, which all After challenge, debate and consideration Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer, and underpin the revenue calculation.
Increased of all relevant information, the Committee the Compliance and Risk Director and confidence has been derived from the concluded that it could recommend to the satisfied itself that the integrity of the control external audit approach such that revenue Board that the 2015 Annual Report and environment supporting the financial reporting streams were recalculated on 100% of our Financial Statements are fair, balanced and and disclosure process is appropriate.
most significant revenue streams, with understandable.
sample based testing on the remainder.
Internal controls and key risks SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGMENTS AND The Committee received regular reports The Audit Committee receives reports at each FINANCIAL REPORTING FOR 2015 from management on the actions taken meeting from Compliance and Risk, as well as following the external audit benchmarking Internal Audit.
The Committee challenged the As part of its work in the year, the Audit exercise of our IT controls in 2014 and key executives on the content and veracity of Committee, on behalf of the Board, has were satisfied that any improvements those reports and the Committee has been examined the Annual Report and Financial required were put in place.
The external satisfied that appropriate arrangements, Statements, Interim Report and Financial audit also included a review of material actions or mitigating controls are in place.
Statements, the Interim Management balances, including counterparty balances, Topics addressed this year included: Statements, related disclosures, consistency of and an assessment of our overall control accounting policies and the financial reporting environment with an emphasis this year The ongoing project to upgrade and process.
This has included the review and on IT controls and controls over journal enhance our IT operating platform approval of the Annual Report, and consideration entries and reconciliations.
IT security, including cyber risk and of the Income Statement, Statement of specifically Denial of Service attacks Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial The Committee evaluated whether the Considering root cause analysis for any Position, Statement of Changes in Equity, Going going concern basis of accounting was systems outages Concern statement and the Statement of Cash appropriate by assessing the ICAAP Monitoring CASS, implementation of Flows, with an emphasis on ensuring that these and forecasts.
This included a review PS14 9 and client money reports are fair, balanced and understandable.
of possible extreme stress scenarios.
Monitoring changes to the management The Committee concluded that the of SIPP monies As part of the review of the Annual Report, liquidity and capital position of the Group Overseeing the implementation of the Audit Committee concluded that there are remained appropriate.
improved measurement and reporting of no significant financial judgements and that key controls and process mapping the key area of discussion for the Committee The Company has in place arrangements to Reviewing the Risk Management in the financial statements is revenue as it is ensure that the Annual Report, taken as a arrangements including the assessment of a significant focus for stakeholders.
Within whole, is fair, balanced and understandable the top ten key risks, potential impact and this, the Committee considered the basis for revenue recognition: and provides shareholders with the information resulting actions responsibility passed to necessary to assess the Companys the Risk Committee from 1 October 2014 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 45 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Audit department the Committee is happy year to 30 June 2015 but not included in the The implementation of a process to with both its resources and plans.
The Audit Committee has agreed ensure continuous monitoring of controls Institute of Internal Auditors recommend a higher base fee for 2015, better reflecting as required by the Financial Reporting that an external review of the Internal Audit the work the external auditor is performing.
Council for the forthcoming year.
function is carried out no less than every five years.
Our Internal Audit function had a There is also an increase in fees in 2015 due to 3.
Effectiveness of the Audit Committee satisfactory external review carried out in May the additional work undertaken by the auditors The Audit Committees effectiveness was 2012.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee in respect of specific CASS and client monies independently reviewed as part of the overall was in regular contact with the Head of compliance auditing due to regulatory changes.
Board effectiveness review undertaken Internal Audit throughout the year.
There are no contractual or similar obligations in the year.
The results showed that the restricting the Groups choice of external auditor Committee is effective and working as should The Audit Committee met with the Head of and the external auditor has confirmed to the be expected.
Certain recommendations have Internal Audit privately this year in order to Committee that they remain independent.
been made as part of the review, actions discuss any matters directly in the absence of have been agreed where improvements were management.
The Audit Committee met with the external suggested: auditor privately this year in order to 5.
Effectiveness and independence of the discuss any matters directly with the Senior An additional meeting has been added external auditor Engagement Partner in the absence of to the calendar for the coming year in The Audit Committee is responsible for the management.
order to ensure there is adequate time for development, implementation and monitoring discussion and debate.
of the Groups policy on external audit.
The PwC have acted as auditors to the Group Drafts of the annual financial statements policy assigns oversight responsibility for since 2013.
In line with the EU audit were provided to the Committee at an monitoring the independence, objectivity regulation requirements, Hargreaves earlier stage to ensure there is sufficient and compliance with ethical and regulatory Lansdown will be required to review PwC as time for members of the Committee to requirements to the Audit Committee, and statutory auditor by 2023.
This regulation review and make comments.
day to day responsibility to the Chief Financial requires the Company to undertake a formal A more rigorous approach to evaluating Officer.
The policy states that the external tender process at least every ten years.
In the effectiveness of the external auditors auditor is jointly responsible to the Board addition, the lead engagement partner is has been adopted.
and the Audit Committee and that the Audit required to be replaced every five years in Guidance published by the Financial Committee is the primary contact.
Reporting Council last year requires boards to consider culture as a significant The Groups policy on external audit can be The Committee continues to remain satisfied factor in the organisations risk and found on the Groups website at www.
co. with the performance and effectiveness control framework, as a result, the Internal uk and it is regularly reviewed to ensure of PwC and that they continue to remain Audit team will carry out a review of that the independence and objectivity of our independent and objective.
The Committee culture in the coming year.
It sets out has therefore recommended to the Board A revised control framework is being the categories of non-audit services which that a resolution is put to shareholders developed and a process mapping the external auditor will and will not be recommending their reappointment together exercise is being undertaken, to ensure allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide with their terms of engagement and that the Committee has an appropriate minimis levels and Audit Committee Chairman remuneration at the Annual General Meeting overview of the risk and control processes approval.
The policy establishes guidelines of the Company.
This will continue to be within the Group.
for the recruitment of employees or former assessed on an annual basis.
employees of the external auditors and for the 4.
Effectiveness of Internal Audit recruitment of our employees by them.
The The external auditor will be asked to attend The Audit Committee assists the Board in policy further states that our external auditor the AGM and will be available to answer fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the may only be used for non-audit work where shareholders questions about the audit and adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit department.
Internal Audit there are specific circumstances which mean their report found on page 67. presents its plans for audit, using a risk they are the only firm able to provide a good based approach, to the Committee twice service at an acceptable price.
There were no Signed on behalf of the Audit Committee.
a year for prioritisation and approval.
The non-audit fees during 2015 2014: nil.
Fees Internal Audit charter can be found on our for the audit for 2015 were 220,000 2014: website at www.
In the prior year there was a Shirley Garrood 39,000 overrun on the audit fees which was Chairman of the Audit Committee Having conducted a review of the Internal subsequently recognised as an expense in the 16 September 2015 46 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
