54 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc UK best practice As noted in the Chairmans introductory letter to this the role of the Board Statement, prior to the IPO in October 2015, oversight and The Board is the main decision making body of the Company.
entrepreneurial leadership for the Hastings Group was It provides leadership within a framework of prudent and provided by the Board and Committees of Hastings Insurance effective controls enabling risk to be assessed and managed.
Group Investment plc, the previous Group parent entity.
It also carries ultimate responsibility for the effective direction Since August, the Board met eight times in 2015: five of these and control of the Group and is accountable to shareholders were to consider matters in connection with the IPO.
At the for financial and operational performance.
other three meetings the Board considered the Groups third quarter interim management statement announced in The Boards activities during the year included monitoring October, appointment of the external auditor, approval of the financial performance against strategic initiatives and 2016 budget, review of the Groups reinsurance programme financial targets set at the beginning of the year, monitoring and updates on strategic initiatives.
the effectiveness of internal control, internal audit and risk management systems, monitoring the statutory audit of Board committees the Annual Report and Financial Statements, reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditor and The Board delegates certain matters to various Committees: each with their own Board approved Terms of Reference the level of non-audit work performed by the auditor.
which will be reviewed annually.
The Board has four Committees, Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk.
Since its establishment in August 2015 the Board formally met eight times during the financial year.
It is intended that The principal activities of each Committee are set out in their respective reports on pages 58 to 64.
The Board during the coming year it will meet formally at least eight times a year with additional meetings as necessary.
There is formal and Committee meetings are structured to allow sufficient time for consideration of all items and each Chairman schedule of matters reserved for Board decision which will be subject to annual review and approval.
Matters included encourages constructive debate and challenge.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent are the formulation and development of strategy, major acquisitions or disposals, significant bank borrowings, Board professional advice if required.
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board on matters considered level appointments, the approval of financial reports and price sensitive statements and overall business risk assessment.
by each Committee at the subsequent Board meeting A copy of the schedule is available online at www.
All Directors have access to the minutes com company-information corporate-governance.
Clear responsibilities are allocated to the Non-Executive The membership of these Committees is a matter for the full Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Board upon recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
These responsibilities are set out in Each of the Committees comprises solely Non-Executive writing and are available from the Company Secretary or at Directors, with the exception of the Nomination Committee, www.
com company-information corporateof which the Chief Executive Officer is a member.
Committee is chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director: the Nomination Committee is chaired by the The respective Board of Directors of the Groups regulated Chairman of the Board.
The current membership of each entities are responsible to the UKs Financial Conduct Authority Committee can be found on pages 46 and 47.
Executive FCA and the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission Directors also attend meetings of the Committees when FSC for ensuring compliance with each entitys regulatory required to do so by the Chairman of the relevant Committee.
obligations and that dealings with the FCA and FSC are handled in a constructive, co-operative and transparent manner.
Board and Committee Terms of Reference can be found at www.
Board activity during 2015 At each meeting the Board received updates from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and from the respective Chairmen following meetings of Board Committees.
These updates included the financial and operational performance of the Group and business and market developments of which the Board should be aware.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 55 A.
2 Division of responsibilities Board and committee meeting attendance The roles of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and Details of the number of meetings of the Board and its Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are clearly Committees of the Company held since August 2015 up to defined.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are 31 December 2015 and the attendance of each Director at not to be exercised by the same individual.
The division of those meetings, are set out below.
As noted in the Chairmans responsibilities between the Chairman, Chief Executive and introductory letter to this Statement, some of the successor the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are set out Committees did not meet during the financial year ended in writing and approved by the Board.
31 December 2015: however, meetings were convened early in 2016.
Information on the role and responsibility of each The Chairman, Mike Fairey, is responsible for the leadership Committee are provided in their respective reports on pages and effectiveness of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer, 58 to 64.
Gary Hoffman, is responsible for leading the day-to-day Committee management of the Group in line with the strategy set by Board Audit Nom Rem Risk the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Thomas Colraine is available to shareholders if they have total meetings concerns and will attend sufficient meetings with, and listen held 8 1 0 3 0 to the views of, major shareholders to help to develop a Mike Fairey 8 3 balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of Gary Hoffman 8 major shareholders: he also acts as a sounding board for Richard Hoskins 8 the Chairman.
3 The role of the Chairman Malcolm Le May 6 1 3 The Chairman sets the agendas for the Board meetings Pierre Lefevre 8 1 in conjunction with the Company Secretary and promotes Richard Brewster 7 open and constructive debate between Directors and NonExecutive Directors during meetings.
Edward Fitzmaurice 8 3 Sumit Rajpal 6 3 The Chairman met the independence criteria as set out Michele Titi-Cappelli 8 in B.
compliance with the UK corporate A.
4 The role of Non-Executive Directors Governance code The Chairman actively invites the Non-Executive Directors The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance views.
They provide constructive challenge to management Code 2014 Code and assessment of its compliance with and help develop proposals on strategy.
The Board has appointed Thomas Colraine as Senior a. leadership Independent Non-Executive Director.
1 The role of the Board shareholders if they have concerns and to attend sufficient The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group within meetings with and listen to the views of major shareholders a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables to help to develop a balanced understanding of the issues risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups and concerns of major shareholders.
strategic aims and ensures that the necessary resources are in place to achieve those aims.
The Board met eight times The Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors during the year.
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved without the Executive Directors present during the year.
The for the Board, together with delegated authorities.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will meet with Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present in the coming financial year to appraise the Chairmans performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
Minutes of every Board and Committee meeting are taken by the Company Secretary and are approved as a true and accurate account by the respective Board or Committee at the subsequent meeting.
56 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc UK best practice continued B. effectiveness B.
4 Development All Directors have full unfettered access to senior B.
1 The composition of the Board management.
An annual effectiveness evaluation will be When making appointments to the Board, the Board and undertaken by the Board in the coming year and the training the Nomination Committee consider the wide range of skills, and development needs of each Director will be assessed.
knowledge and experience required to maintain an effective Board.
The Board believes that it and its Committees have the Newly appointed Board members are provided with a full appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and induction programme.
Following this induction, meetings are knowledge of the Company and the industry within which it arranged with senior managers to provide ongoing education operates to enable them to discharge their respective duties and information about the business.
5 Information and support The Board has an appropriate combination of Executive and The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, Non-Executive Directors.
In particular it has an appropriate ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely number of independent Non-Executive Directors such that information.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Board is aware that the Company does not fully comply with the provisions of the Code as half B.
6 Board evaluation of the Board is not composed of independent Non-Executive The Board, its Committees and Directors will undertake an Directors.
The Company intends to be fully compliant with the evaluation of their performance during the Companys next Code in this respect prior to the end of the next financial year full financial year during 2016. and is actively seeking to make a further independent NonExecutive Director appointment during the course of 2016.
7 Re-election of the Directors The Board is also conscious that it is not representative in All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at terms of diversity.
The Board will continue to seek appropriate, the first AGM after their appointment, and will be subject well qualified candidates irrespective of race, gender, disability, to annual re-election thereafter.
religion or belief, sexual orientation or age.
2 Board appointments C. 1 Financial and business reporting The Board is responsible for the appointment of Executive Directors.
The appointment of new Non-Executive Directors The Board is responsible for preparing fair, balanced and understandable financial information.
The Strategic Report to the Board is led by the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee report is on page 61. is set out on pages 2 to 51 inclusive and this provides information about the performance of the Group, the Following the IPO in October 2015, shareholders Hastings A, business model, strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups business.
L. P. Hastings B, L. P. Goldman, Sachs & Co. Goldman Sachs and the Founder Shareholders Founders continue to have C. 2 Risk management and internal control systems significant direct and indirect via Hastings Investco Limited investment in the Company.
Pursuant to a Relationship The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks the Company faces and maintains sound risk Agreement, Goldman Sachs and the Founders are each able to appoint two of the Directors to the Board while they or persons management and internal control systems.
The Board has established a Risk Committee and an Audit Committee: each connected to them continue to hold a direct or indirect interest in 20% or more of the Companys shares and one Director will convene at least four times a year.
Further information on while they or persons connected to them continue to hold a risk management and internal control systems is set out in the direct or indirect interest in at least 5% but less than 20% of Companys Viability Statement on pages 40 to 45, the Audit the Companys shares.
The first such appointees were Sumit Committee report on pages 58 to 60 and the Risk Committee Rajpal and Michele Titi-Cappelli Goldman Sachs and Richard report on pages 62 and 63.
Brewster and Edward Fitzmaurice Founders.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys B.
3 Commitment risk management and internal controls during 2015, including When appointed, Directors are informed of the time financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Board commitment expected from them and is stipulated in confirms there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating their contract of employment or letter of appointment and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, as appropriate.
which has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
Neither of the Executive Directors holds any Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 57 C. 3 The role of the Audit Committee Directors conflict of interest The activities of the Audit Committee which assists the Board No Director had, during the year, any beneficial interest in with its responsibilities for risk management, internal control any contract significant to the Companys business, other and its relationship with the auditors are set out in the Audit than a contract of employment.
The Company has procedures Committee report on pages 58 to 60. in place for managing conflicts of interest.
At the start of each Board meeting each Director reviews and confirms his D. Remuneration her other directorships and advisory roles or trusteeships D. 1 Setting levels of remuneration held.
Should a Director become aware that they, or their The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration connected parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed to attract, retain and motivate the Board but also structures transaction with the Company, they are required to notify executive remuneration so as to link rewards to corporate the Board in writing or at a Board meeting.
The Companys and individual performance.
Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest and impose any limits on a Directors No Non-Executive Director has been awarded share options participation in Board decision making relating to that conflict.
or other performance related incentives during the period.
Whistle-blowing Executive Director notice periods are set at one year or less.
A whistle-blowing policy is in force across the Group to enable colleagues to bring to the attention of any Director serious D. 2 Development of executive remuneration policy matters of misconduct which they believe would damage and packages the performance or reputation of the Group.
The Board acknowledges that, while the Group does not fully comply with the requirements of the Code in that not all annual General Meeting aGM members of the Remuneration Committee are independent The Company welcomes the interaction with shareholders Non-Executive Directors, it believes that the independence at its Annual General Meeting and the Chairman of the Board of the Remuneration Committee is not compromised as it and each of its Committees will be available at the AGM.
has an independent Chairman and a majority of independent Shareholders are entitled to vote on all resolutions put to Non-Executive Directors.
the AGM and votes cast will be counted, whether in person or by proxy, by means of a poll on every resolution in the The activities and composition of the Remuneration Committee Notice of AGM.
and its approach to setting the remuneration policy can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report set out The results of the votes on the resolutions, including the on pages 66 to 75. number of votes for and against each resolution and the number of shares for which the vote was directed to be e. Relations with shareholders withheld, will be provided at the meeting, published on the E. 1 Shareholder contact Companys website and publicly available by means of formal The Board values opportunities to meet with shareholders announcement.
and is kept informed of shareholder views.
The AGM for 2016 will be held at 11:00am on Wednesday The Board exercises due care and diligence to ensure that 25 May at Instinctif Partners, 65 Gresham Street, London, information, including that which is potentially price sensitive, EC2V 7NQ.
The Company confirms that it will send the Notice is released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance of AGM and related documentation to shareholders at with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
least 20 working days before the meeting, either by post, to those shareholders who prefer a paper copy, or by email to E. 2 Annual General Meeting those shareholders who have agreed that the Company can The Board welcomes the opportunity to meet with communicate with them electronically.
The Notice of AGM shareholders at the AGM.
and the Proxy form are available from the Investors section on the Companys website www.
com investorIndependence of non-executive Directors information .
The Board considers all the independent Non-Executive Directors to be independent and although each of them company website holds shares in the Company, these shareholdings are not Shareholders and other interested parties can considered sufficiently material to impact their independence.
access further information about the Company at www.
