62 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Risk committee The Committee is supported by separate Risk Committees in each of the Groups trading entities, Retail and Underwriting, which met throughout the year.
The Board fully reviews the risk profile of all matters that it has considered in the financial year under report.
The Groups Risk Management Framework is a development of the framework in place pre-IPO and will be further enhanced throughout the coming year.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups Risk Management Framework and delegates the oversight of this to the Risk Committee.
The Committee is a formal sub-committee of the Board with its own defined Terms of Pierre lefevre Chairman of the Risk Committee Reference.
The principal purpose of the Risk Committee is to advise the Board on risk management issues, recommend the Group framework of risk limits and risk appetite to the Board Dear shareholder for approval and oversee the risk management arrangements I am pleased to present the first report of the of the Company and Group generally.
The Committee ensures Risk Committee for the financial year ended that the material risks facing the Group have been identified and that appropriate arrangements are in place to manage, 31December 2015.
The current Risk Committee mitigate and monitor those risks effectively and also ensures became effective following the IPO in October that responsibility for managing, mitigating and monitoring this year taking over from the previous Group risk in each of the regulated subsidiaries has been effectively Risk Committee.
References to the activities of the delegated to the respective company Boards.
Risk Committee in this report are before and after It is proposed that the Committee will meet at least four times flotation.
Although there was no meeting of this a year and at other times as required.
Risk Committee prior to the year end, an inaugural meeting was convened in February 2016.
Role and responsibilities of the committee The Risk Committees within the trading entities are composed of independent Non-Executive Directors and executive management.
At each meeting of the respective Committee consideration is given to significant movements in the risk profile as well as emerging risks of each entity: risk appetite proposals are also made for approval by the respectiveBoard.
Members of the Risk committee Both Committees oversee the effectiveness of the Risk The Risk Committee is made up of the following Non-Executive Management Framework for their respective entities.
Directors: chairman Members Conduct risk in the Groups UK regulated subsidiary, and Pierre Lefevre Ian Cormack regulatory compliance and customer outcome matters is Michele Titi-Cappelli separately considered by Retails Customer and Financial Conduct Committee CFC.
The CFC is also composed Malcolm Le May of independent Non-Executive Directors and executive management: all of the subsidiary Board Committees Biographies of the Committee members are set out on pages are chaired by a Non-Executive Director.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Chairmen formally report to the respective entity Boards and Committee and takes the minutes of meetings.
The Terms of the minutes are available to all Directors.
The Chairman of the Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board Risk Committee regularly meets with the Chairmen of these and are available online at www.
com companyrespective Committees and is also chairman of Underwritings information corporate-governance.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 63 The implementation of a common approach to the Priorities for 2016 Governance and application of the Risk Management In the coming year the Risk Committee will focus on: Framework enables there to be a direct link between the Enhancing and embedding the Group Risk Framework trading entities and the Group, to form a Group wide view to include: of risk.
Furthermore, in the trading entities, there are links established between Strategic Risk and the Business Group Risk Appetite Statements: Risks that enables an assessment of any deterioration or risk reporting: improvement of risks, top to bottom and bottom to top.
alignment of Risk Appetite Statements throughout Subsidiary level Strategic Risks are then linked, where the Group : appropriate, to the Groups Risks, which again enables an assessment of any movement in a risk at entity level and the establishing data links between trading entities and Group level risks: implications for Group Risks.
This cohesive and integrated approach to Risk Management leverages the Risk Committees conducting a series of stress tests to examine in more at subsidiary level and provides effective assessment of the detail Group risks, control and key indicators: and Groups Risk.
ensuring that ongoing compliance with Solvency II is sufficiently embedded in Underwriting through systems Internal control and risk management of governance, risk management and capital adequacy.
The description of the Groups internal control and risk Overseeing and ensuring that the implementation of management is covered in the Managing Our Risks report the Claims and Broking platform upgrades through 2016 on pages 40 to 45. is successful and does not impact operations, services to customers or the profitability of the Group: Implementing assurance processes oversight that allows Group to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management processes applied within the trading entities: and Reviewing resource requirements and if necessary increase risk resources at Group level.
On behalf of the Risk Committee Pierre lefevre Chairman 14 March 2016
