58 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc audit committee The Audit Committee supports the Board by reviewing the integrity of the financial information, robustness of internal controls, the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies and standards, the effectiveness of external and internal audit and providing clear, complete, fair, balanced and understandable financial reports to shareholders.
The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, making any necessary recommendations for action or improvements.
The Committees Terms of Reference can be found on the Companys website www.
thomas colraine Chairman of the Audit Committee Meetings Subsequent to the IPO the Committee met once during Dear shareholder the year under review to recommend to the Board the appointment of KPMG as external auditors to the Company, I am pleased to present the report of the approve the external audit strategy and approach, approve Audit Committee for the financial year ended the internal audit plan for 2016 and recommend for approval 31December 2015.
The current Audit Committee the policy on Provision of Audit and Non-Audit Services.
The Committee met twice during the current year to review the became effective following the IPO in October Annual Report and Accounts and met with KPMG.
Prior to this a Group Audit Committee was already in place, the last meeting of which was It is proposed that the Committee will meet at least four times held on 14September 2015.
References to the a year and at other times as required.
activities of the Audit Committee in this report How the committee addresses issues with are before and after listing.
Financial Statements and matters communicated to the committee by the auditors Financial reporting and significant financial judgements Provision for outstanding claims The provision for claims outstanding is an area of significant judgement as it estimates the cost required to settle all unpaid Members of the audit committee claims, both reported and incurred but not reported, at the The Audit Committee is made up of the following independent balance sheet date.
Non-Executive Directors: The Groups internal actuary has accumulated significant chairman Members experience in projecting future claims development and a Thomas Colraine Malcolm Le May detailed understanding of how ultimate liabilities outturn over Pierre Lefevre time based on initial notifications, environmental conditions Ian Cormack and changes to legislation or reporting processes.
This experience is built into the Reserving Policy and the actuarial Each member has significant experience working with listed models used to calculate the year end claims reserves, which entities on matters relating to financial probity and internal are overseen by Underwritings Reserving Committee.
Biographies of the Directors are set out on pages Reserving Committee is a management function responsible 46 and 47.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the for oversight of the process and recommending the reserves Committee and takes the minutes of all meetings.
There are robust controls in place surrounding the data used by the internal actuary and all Although not members, the external auditor, KPMG LLP estimates and assumptions are internally peer reviewed.
This KPMG, the internal auditor, Grant Thornton, the Chief approach applies rigour and independence to ensure there is Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are notified an appropriate margin over the actuarial best estimate to allow of all meetings and may attend by invitation.
At each meeting, for uncertainty and volatility.
The Groups external actuary the Committee has the opportunity to talk to the external and prepares an independent projection of claims reserves.
internal auditors without the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer being present.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 59 Having been approved by Underwritings Reserving There is also further judgement required in establishing the Committee and Board, detailed papers were provided to recoverability of the reinsurers share of insurance contract the Audit Committee explaining the Reserving Policy, the liabilities, particularly the longer-term assets arising from methodology and judgements applied in the actuarial larger claims and periodical payment orders PPO.
The calculations to support the provisions made.
This included Group manages its exposure to credit risk with respect to reports and calculations provided by the external actuary.
its reinsurers through diversification, purchasing both excess The Committee met with management and considered of loss and quota share reinsurance and using two panels representations from both the internal and external actuaries of reinsurers to provide cover under each arrangement, to challenge the methodology applied, the best estimate by reviewing the financial strength of reinsurers prior to calculations and the external actuarys independent report.
finalisation of any contract, by using reinsurers with strong During these discussions additional information on reserving credit ratings and by reviewing the creditworthiness of levels was provided and challenged by the Committee as reinsurers on an ongoing basis.
The creditworthiness of to their adequacy and level of prudence, and any variances reinsurers is considered by reviewing credit grades provided between the internal and external best estimates were by rating agencies and other publicly available financial debated and understood.
information on a quarterly basis as well as monitoring the recent payment history of reinsurers to ensure they are in The Audit Committee also asked the Groups external accordance with expected settlement terms.
auditors to provide an update on the procedures they used to test the reserving process and best estimate calculations Having considered all the information presented and having in accordance with the applicable accounting and auditing satisfied themselves with the enquiries made, the Committee standards.
The external auditors further confirmed the confirmed they were satisfied with the Groups approach and challenges made, representations they received and the accuracy and recoverability of the reinsurance assets held conclusions they made based on this.
and reasonableness of the claims reserves held.
Having considered all the information presented and having Significant issues related to the Financial satisfied themselves with the enquiries made, the Committee Statements confirmed they were satisfied with the Groups approach and Other than the areas of significant judgement described, the completeness and reasonableness of the provision for there were no other significant issues related to the Financial claims outstanding held.
Statements considered by the Committee and discussed with the external auditors during the year and in relation to the Reinsurance assets 31December 2015 year end.
In common with many insurers, the Group uses both nonproportional excess of loss and quota share reinsurance external audit arrangements to limit its exposure to claims.
The excess of Prior to the audit being conducted, the Committee considered loss programme limits the Groups exposure on any individual the content and scope of audit work and the audit fees claim and the quota share arrangement provides 50% cover proposed by KPMG and discussed changes in accounting on all motor claims after excess of loss recoveries.
The Group policies and new developments within the business which would remain liable for all amounts due to policyholders might affect financial reporting going forward.
KPMG Audit should any reinsurer fail to pay.
plc was appointed as the auditor to the Groups subsidiaries in 2010.
The Directors of the Company appointed KPMG LLP An accurate calculation of reinsurance assets is vital to ensure as auditors to the Company in November 2015 and their rean appropriate gross and net position is recognised within appointment is proposed at the upcoming AGM in May 2016. the Financial Statements.
The calculation of reinsurance recovery assets is intrinsically linked to the calculation of outstanding claims liabilities, requires the same estimations and judgements as considered by Underwritings Reserving Committee, and is subject to the same level of control and review.
60 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc audit committee continued adoption of policy on the provision of audit and Priorities for 2016 non-audit services In the coming year the Audit Committee will focus on: Under the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Continued enhancement of the Groups reserving process: Code the Committee, as representative of the shareholders, Appointment of a new Group audit partner, after the is required to oversee the relationship with the auditors and keep the nature and extent of non-audit services under review.
mandatory rotation of the current Group audit director in 2016: The Committee must satisfy itself that the independence and objectivity of the auditor are not compromised.
The Committee Assessment of the potential impact on the Group of IFRS 9 reviewed and recommended to the Board a fully Code Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts compliant Group Policy on the Provision of Audit and Nonwith Customers and ensuring the Group is well prepared Audit Services: Board approval was sought and obtained.
to comply with these new accounting standards: and Ensuring the Groups internal audit function continues In assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process by the Committee, the auditors were asked to articulate the steps its systematic and disciplined approach.
that they have taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
This year, the Committee reviewed and challenged the Fair, balanced and understandable external audit plan to ensure that having identified potential The Board sought advice from the Committee that the areas of risks to ensure KPMG would employ effective audit information presented in this Annual Report, when taken as procedures to examine them.
The Committee monitors a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and contains the the auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups during the exercise of their duties, which informs the Audit position and performance, business model and strategy.
Committees decision to recommend reappointment on an The steps taken by the Committee, or on its behalf, to provide annual basis.
The total amount paid for non-audit work during this advice to the Board included setting up a committee of the year was 1.3m and was for matters relating to the IPO in senior individuals within the Group to draft the annual report, KPMGs role as Reporting Accountant.
with each of these individuals having responsibility for the production of certain sections of the document.
Following The Committee recommends that KPMG be reappointed a detailed review of the annual report, the Committee as auditors to the Company at the upcoming AGM.
concluded that it was fair, balanced and understandable and contains the information necessary for shareholders to assess Internal audit the Groups position and performance, business model and The internal audit function is managed and resourced via strategy, and advised the Board accordingly.
a third-party relationship with Grant Thornton UK LLP.
It brings a systematic, disciplined approach to the evaluation Discharge of responsibilities and improvement of the effectiveness of risk management During the year under review, the Audit Committee has control and governance processes.
Internal audit provides continued its detailed scrutiny of the appropriateness of the insight and recommendations based on the assessment of Groups system of internal controls, and the robustness and data and business processes.
integrity of the Groups financial reporting, along with both the internal and external audit processes.
The Committee The independence of the internal audit function helps to has devoted significant time to reviewing these areas, which ensure that accurate reports are provided to the Board, are integral to the Groups core management and financial Audit and Risk Committees without undue management processes, as well as engaging regularly with management.
influence on the audit and its processes.
The internal audit The Committee has, where necessary, taken the initiative in function service provider is chosen through a tender process requesting information in order to provide the appropriate involving reputable audit firms and the independence of that constructive challenge for its role.
Internal audit also reviews the effectiveness of the Group risk functions.
On behalf of the Audit Committee No significant deficiencies in the system of internal controls were identified following an internal audit review.
thomas colraine Chairman of the Audit Committee 14 March 2016
