Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 61 nomination committee The Committee is a formal sub-committee of the Board with its own defined Terms of Reference.
The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee is to review the composition of and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
It also leads the process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board other than those appointed by the pre-IPO major shareholders and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
As per its Terms of Reference, the Committee can obtain information and advice during the period under review from independent recruitment consultants at the expense of the Company.
During the period under review, no advice was sought.
Mike Fairey Chairman of the Nomination Committee Role and responsibilities of the committee Dear shareholder When proposing appointments of Directors, the Committee considers the independence, skills, knowledge and experience I am pleased to present the first report of the that a candidate possesses compared to the skill sets and Nomination Committee for the year ended experience of the Board as it currently stands.
The current Nomination of candidates also takes into consideration the breadth of knowledge that the Board has and that it is required to Committee became effective after the IPO.
provide a well-balanced environment which encourages Prior to this a Group Remuneration and scrutiny and appropriate challenge.
Nomination Committee was in place.
References to the activities of the Nomination Committee As noted in my Chairmans statement, the composition of the Board currently does not fully comply with the UK Corporate in this report are before and after flotation.
Governance Code 2014 in that half the Directors excluding Appointments made to the Board and the Chairman should be independent of the Group.
Hastings subsequently the Committee itself were agreed by is intent on becoming fully compliant by the end of 2016. the pre-IPO Board in August and September 2015 The Committee and the Board is aware that the composition just prior to Admission.
Since that date no further of the Board as it currently stands is not as diverse as it Committee meetings have been convened.
During the coming financial year the Committee will proposed that the Committee will meet at least review the composition and diversity of the Board and make twice a year and at other times as required.
The Companys policy is to ensure that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and the Board does not intend to adopt a quota system with prescriptive, quantitative targets.
Instructions to external agents appointed for senior appointments will require a list of candidates to be provided from as many different backgrounds as possible.
Members of the nomination committee The Nomination Committee is made up of the following Priorities for 2016 Directors: In the coming year the Nomination Committee will focus on chairman Members Board composition and succession planning for Directors and Mike Fairey Richard Brewster senior executive management within the Company and the Thomas Colraine Groups trading entities.
Ian Cormack On behalf of the Nomination Committee Gary Hoffman Sumit Rajpal Mike Fairey Membership may vary depending on whether an individual Chairman members own position is under review.
Biographies of the Committee members are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The 14 March 2016 Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and takes the minutes of all meetings.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available online at www.
