Papers are sent to Directors normally at least a week in advance of the Board Meetings and the Relationship Board meetings by the Company Secretary.
Board papers include: with the Manager A review of the infrastructure market detailing key developments Principle 12.
Boards and managers should operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Investment activity in the period and the pipeline of potential new The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility, within investment opportunities clearly defined frameworks.
A review of portfolio performance in the period with material issues identified and discussed The day-to-day administration of the Company has been A review of any Health and Safety matters in the period delegated to Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd in its capacity as A detailed financial review, including detailed management Company Secretary and Administrator.
accounts, valuation, and treasury matters The Investment Adviser has two roles Adviser to the Company Reports from the Broker and from the Financial PR company and Operator of the Groups limited partnership which owns the Groups underlying investments.
Matters relating to Companys risk management and internal control systems including associated stress tests, which were previously The role of Adviser includes reporting on the performance of the considered by the Board, are now considered by the Risk Committee investment portfolio, preparing the semi-annual valuations, the which, in turn, reports any significant matters findings to the statutory accounts, the management accounts, business plans, Board and are covered in Principle 16 below and are set out in more presenting results and information to shareholders, co-ordinating all detail in Section 8 Risk Committee Report.
service providers to the Group and giving the Board general advice and feedback.
The Board regularly requests further information on topics of interest to allow informed decisions to be taken.
The role of Operator includes managing the partnership and taking direct responsibility, within parameters set by the Board, for the On a semi-annual basis, the Board, through the Audit Committee, also decisions relating to the day-to-day management of the Groups considers the interim and annual reports as well as the detailed investment portfolio, the Groups debt facilities, swap arrangements, valuation of the investment portfolio prepared by the Investment and the sourcing of new investments.
Members of the Investment Adviser and the third party expert opinion on the proposed valuation.
Advisers asset management team are appointed as directors of the On at least an annual basis, the Board considers more detailed analysis Groups project companies and as part of their role in actively of the Groups Budget and Business Plan for the prospective year.
managing the portfolio, they attend board meetings and make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to the Principle 14.
Boards should give sufficient attention to overall strategy.
Investment Advisers Executive and Investment Committees for The Board considers a formal strategy report prepared by the consideration and determination.
Investment Adviser at a separate meeting at least once a year.
In the year ended 31 March 2015, a one-day Board meeting was held in Representatives of the Investment Adviser and the Company Secretary September, with the Investment Adviser, which was dedicated to and Administrator attend all Board meetings and, when requested by reviewing and determining the overall strategy of the Group: in the respective Chairman, meetings of the Audit, Management particular the scope and relevance of the current Acquisition Engagement, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk committees.
The exercise involved a fundamental analysis of certain market segments to ensure they are complementary or additive to The Trust Associates Board Evaluation Report contained two the existing portfolio.
The Acquisition Strategy, which has been particularly noteworthy comments on this front.
Firstly, when dealing consistently applied since May 2009, has been reaffirmed subject to with the Investment Adviser, strong challenge and independence are some small changes in emphasis which were driven by market observed on the part of the Board, but that there is also a strong sense conditions.
See Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy, under of collegiality and mutual trust between the two bodies.
Secondly, that the heading Acquisition Strategy for details.
the Directors reported that the Investment Adviser always explains its thinking in detail, that it respects the Boards views and highlights In addition to the strategy day, adherence to the Acquisition Strategy issues that the Board may not have thought of unprompted.
is discussed regularly at Board meetings.
As well as considering acquisitions, the Board also considers disposals, portfolio Principle 13.
The primary focus at regular board meetings should be performance, levels of gearing and likely achievable dividend growth.
a review of investment performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
In addition to the statutory matters discussed at each quarterly Board meeting, the principal focus is on the reports provided by the Investment Adviser, as well as those put forward by the Companys Broker and Financial PR Agent.
These are all standing agenda items.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 63 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued Principle 15.
The board should regularly review both the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and it performance of, and contractual arrangements with, the manager or has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the executives of a self-managed company.
Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their own internal The Management Engagement Committee MEC of the Board is review processes, and the work carried out by the Groups external responsible for reviewing all major service providers to the Group, auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of which includes in particular the Investment Adviser.
The terms of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is reference of this committee include a review of the relationships maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Group is between the Company and its main service providers, including their therefore considered unnecessary albeit, from time to time, performance, compliance with their contracts, and levels of fees paid.
independently conducted assurance assignments may be The Committee typically meets once a year and its recommendations commissioned by the Board.
are given to the Board for consideration and action.
The Board recognises that these control systems can only be The MEC met once in the year to 31 March 2015, to review the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to performance of the key service providers.
No material weaknesses achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not were identified, some recommendations were conveyed to certain absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and providers, and the recommendation to the Board was that the relies on the operating controls established by both the Company current arrangements are appropriate and provide good quality Administrator and the Investment Adviser.
services and advice to the Company and the Group.
The Investment Adviser prepares management accounts and Principle 16.
The board should agree policies with the manager updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which allow the covering key operational issues.
Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To help achieve this end, the The Board and the Investment Adviser have agreed clearly defined Board established a designated Risk Committee which first met in July investment criteria, return targets, risk appetite, and exposure limits.
It follows an ongoing process designed to meet the particular Reports on these performance measures, coupled with cash needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
projections and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board and the relevant committees at each quarterly meeting.
The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal control through a matrix which identifies the key functions carried out by the Principle 17.
Boards should monitor the level of the share price Investment Adviser and other key service providers, the various discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated Through detailed quarterly reports, the Board monitors the with each activity and the controls employed to minimise and Companys share price, share register and discount premium to NAV mitigate those risks.
A scoring based on 1 to 5 for Likelihood and 1 per share.
Since April 2009, the share price has been trading at a to 5 for Impact is used and these are multiplied together to give a premium to NAV per share due to strong and sustained demand from total score.
Mitigation is considered on a scale of 1 to 5 and this the investment community.
As a result of this demand the Board has leads to the derivation of a residual risk rating.
The matrix is updated encouraged the Investment Adviser to source new investments quarterly and the Risk Committee is provided with regular reports which meet the Companys investment criteria.
Although initially highlighting all material changes to the Groups risks and their funded by borrowings under the Groups revolving debt facility, these ratings and the action which has been, or is being taken.
are typically refinanced within a matter of months by way of new equity issuance.
The issuance of new shares is the principal tool The key findings and updates from the Risk Committee are, as with the available to the Board to manage the premium.
However, as the other committees, reported to the Board after the relevant meeting.
Board is wary of the drag on returns that results from holding uninvested cash, new equity is only raised following an investment At each Board meeting, the Board also monitors the Groups or when an investment is imminent.
investment performance in comparison to its stated objectives and it reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting to ensure Should the Companys shares trade at a discount at some point in the that the Investment Adviser and the Operator adhere to the agreed future, the Boards authority to purchase shares for cancellation was Investment Policy and approved investment guidelines.
The pipeline renewed at the Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2014.
The of new potential opportunities is considered and the prices paid for Directors are proposing that it is tabled for renewal when it otherwise new or incremental investments during the quarter are also reviewed.
expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2015.
Further, the Risk Committee receives regular reports from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of compliance matters and duties performed by them on behalf of the Company.
