Section 8: Risk Committee Report I chair the Risk Committee which has been in operation throughout Statement of the Chairman of the the year since its inaugural meeting held in July 2014 and operates Risk Committee within clearly defined terms of reference available on the Companys The Company has put a risk management framework in place website.
It comprises all the Directors and it met three times in the covering all aspects of the Groups business.
As the Company is an year to 31 March 2015.
Going forward, it intends to meet four times Investment Company, it outsources key services to the Investment a year, to coincide with the quarterly Board meetings.
Adviser and other service providers.
It therefore places reliance on these service providers own systems and controls, details of which The duties of the Risk Committee in discharging its responsibilities the Board has received and reviews annually.
comprise defining a risk appetite for the Group and a robust assessment and monitoring of all matters relating to the risks to The risk management framework utilises three lines of defence, which the Group is exposed and their management and mitigation, in being cascading approaches by which the interests of the Company particular, in respect of risk exposure and controls, stress and and its shareholders are effectively safeguarded and protected.
The scenario planning, regulatory compliance, project company controls, first line is the development of systems essentially the day-to-day tax policies and matters and the three lines of defence.
management of risk through effective controls as documented in, e. g. the Companys and the Investment Advisers Policies and I, or another member of the Risk Committee, will be available at the Controls Manuals.
The second line is that of oversight, namely the Annual General Meeting to respond to any questions from challenge mechanism that is provided by the Risk Committee which shareholders regarding our activities.
reviews, challenges and monitors to ensure that policies are up-todate and delegated authorities are respected complied with, and Ian Russell responds to new strategic priorities and emerging or changing risks.
Risk Committee Chairman The third and final defence is third party assurance which is utilised to provide an independent challenge to the risk management 20 May 2015 framework of the Company, an audit of key controls and guidance as to best practice, with the results reported to the Audit Committee.
Main Duties and General Approach The main duties of the Risk Committee are: Under direction from the Board, the identification, assessment and management of risk are integral elements of the Investment ensuring that the Company implements an effective risk Advisers and the Operators work in both the management of the governance structure and control framework which envelops key existing portfolio and in seeking new investment opportunities.
This risk areas with appropriate reporting: is the so-called first line of defence, described above.
considering on an annual basis and recommending for approval The Risk Committee reviews the key risks affecting the Company at by the Board the Groups risk appetite, taking account of the each regular board meeting, by reference to a risk analysis matrix current and prospective macroeconomic and financial developed and monitored in conjunction with the Investment environment: Adviser.
This review, which forms part of the second line of defence, reviewing, challenging and approving, at least on an annual includes consideration of any new circumstances which could arise basis, risk limits and tolerances, inter alia by asset type, by creating additional risks for the Group.
For each identified risk, a geography sovereign risk, by counterparty exposure, for mitigation strategy is, where appropriate, developed and interest rate exposure, for currency exposure, and for borrowing implemented, together with appropriate monitoring by the at the Group level: Investment Adviser and other key service providers as appropriate.
confirming ongoing regulatory compliance where appropriate, e. g. FATCA: Significant Activities in the Year overseeing the Group risk profile, challenging the assessment The Company has a risk policy principle to ensure that all significant and measurement of key risks whilst monitoring the actions risks are identified, assessed, and their likelihood and impact taken to manage them: effectively mitigated within acceptable levels.
Part of the Companys risk management processes include a risk appetite statement, reviewing and recommending scenario assumptions for inclusion approved at a Board Meeting held to consider the implementation of in business planning Corporate Plan and receive the results of AIFMD in April 2014, which the Committee considered at its stress and scenario analysis to determine whether proposed inaugural meeting in July 2014 and forms a standing agenda item at mitigation is sufficient to manage the business risk profile within each subsequent meeting.
The statement is designed to articulate the Boards appetite: the risks that the Company is prepared to accept to generate the making recommendations to the Board having taken advice from targeted returns for shareholders, as set in the Companys Objectives the Investment Adviser, on material changes to investment and see Section 2.1 Overview, Approach, Objectives, History and strategy, treasury policy and operational risk policy.
Further, it is designed to reflect the Companys investment mandate, as per the Acquisition Strategy and Investment Policy see Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy, under the heading Investment Selection and Pricing for details, the current economic and business environment in which the Group operates, the Companys strategic objectives see Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy and business plans: and investors expectations.
72 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 The Committee considered and noted compliance with the Approved specific project issues warranting discussion with the Board.
The Delegation Parameters ADPs, which are a component of the Committee noted that in the majority of instances where specific Companys risk management processes.
The ADPs, which project issues had arisen, the problems related to residual necessarily operate within the limits of the Investment Policy, are construction defects affecting operational performance.
An action designated thresholds pre-agreed with the Risk Committee and arising from this review is how to improve areas of due diligence approved by the Board which retains ultimate responsibility for Risk during the acquisition process to spot any potential defects which Management from time to time, in view of the Companys risk could subsequently cause performance issues.
appetite, within which the Investment Adviser may make specific, unilateral investment and asset management decisions.
They In February, the Investment Adviser provided the Committee with a provide the Board with comfort on the delegation of the investment progress update and outline plan on the control environment at the management functions as they are designed to optimise risk and project companies in which the Group invests, prepared with a view return by empowering the Investment Adviser for the more to ensuring there is an appropriate standard level of controls across conventional investment operations of the Group, whilst reserving the Groups portfolio of investments.
The conclusion of the prior Board approval for other matters exceeding the ADP limits.
assessment work was that there were generally adequate control environments, though some weaknesses were identified and a As a result of counterparty analysis and portfolio development, an number of recommendations are currently being implemented.
In additional segmentation of the sector weighting ADP was made accordance with Companys third line of defence, the Committee may during the year.
In addition, in July, the committee considered a consider engaging a third party to carry out some assurance work to memorandum prepared by the Investment Adviser concerning a test this control environment further in due course.
specific investment opportunity in Australia which would exceed the then current ADP threshold for the territory.
On the basis of the riskThe Committee also discussed the risk of cyber-attacks.
Comfort was reward dynamics presented by the opportunity, and the small taken that the Companys key service provider had appropriate IT relative change a successful consummation of the transaction would systems and policies in place.
It was noted that the Investment have in terms of geographic exposure to Australia, the Committee Adviser had confirmed that its IT systems, particularly its firewalls, recommended and the Board approved an amendment to the ADP to had been subject to annual penetration testing by a specialist third permit the Investment Adviser to proceed.
Ultimately however, the party recently, and had passed.
The debate also covered the project companies in which the Group At the Committees first meeting, a programme of various potential invests and whether any of the buildings such as schools and stress scenarios for the Company, and the related analyses, to be hospitals had building management systems BMS connected to the presented to the Committee by the Investment Adviser were agreed.
If these systems are connected to allow for remote As stated by the risk appetite statement, the principal aim is to monitoring and resetting, these systems are at risk of attack.
The ensure that, in the relevant stress scenario, the Company retains the Committee has asked the Investment Adviser to investigate how many ability to generate sufficient cash flow to cover targeted dividends BMS systems are connected to the internet, with a view to taking and grow the net asset value per share.
expert advice on the potential risk, and ways it can be mitigated.
In particular, during the year, the Committee received analysis and The Committee was informed that the Company had received considered the hypothetical implications of: notification from the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK on 22 August 2014, and from the Central Bank of Ireland on 20 October the voluntary termination of one of the Groups projects: 2014, that it was registered as a self-managed non-EEA Alternative Investment Fund AIF, and would be able to market into the UK and a change to Gilt rates: the Republic of Ireland, respectively, for new issues of shares.
At the the insolvency of any one of the facilities management contractors: time of writing, the Company is applying for a marketing licence for a reduction to residual values although few investments have Sweden, so that it is authorised to do the same in that territory.
The embedded residual value : Committee was also notified that the Company is registered and ready to commence reporting as required by the newly adopted the impact of adverse foreign exchange movements: and FATCA regime.
the Groups current tax environment, including in the latter case, the OECDs base erosion and profit shifting project BEPS which The Committee considers, at each meeting, various regulatory was endorsed by the G20 in July 2013. compliance reports from the Investment Adviser and from the Administrator.
No significant action points or notable comments The Committee, recognising the impact the BEPS project could have arose in respect of these regular reviews.
on the Groups future cash flows, agreed that the Investment Adviser should engage, on behalf of the Company and through The The Committee is committed to the continued development of stress Infrastructure Forum, in consultation with the OECD and monitor the scenario testing and the use of other risk management tools to progress of the BEPS project.
supplement its current practice and the adoption of best practice.
Further assurance work will also be considered as and when it is At each meeting, the Investment Adviser provided the Committee appropriate to do so.
with a project and risk review.
The content included, inter alia, an analysis of counterparty exposure and portfolio concentration, a summary of pertinent fund matters and the Companys financial risk management policies and status, together with commentary on H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 73 Kicking Horse Canyon, Canada 74 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015
