Section 9: Audit Committee Report The following pages set out the Committees report on its activities The external auditors and the third party valuation expert are invited in respect of the year ended 31 March 2015.
I chair the Audit to attend the Audit Committee meetings at which the Annual and Committee which has been in operation throughout the year and Interim Reports are considered and at which they have the operates within clearly defined terms of reference available on the opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee without Companys website.
It comprises all the Directors except for Mr G representatives of the Investment Adviser being present.
The Audit Picken, Chairman of the Board and it met four times in the year to Committee has direct access to the external auditors and to key 31 March 2015. senior staff of the Investment Adviser and it reports its findings and recommendations to the Board which retains the ultimate The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities responsibility for the financial statements of the Company.
include reviewing the Annual and Interim Accounts, the valuation of the Groups investment portfolio, the system of internal controls, and Significant Issues Considered the terms of appointment of the external auditors together with their After discussions with both the Investment Adviser and the external remuneration.
It is also the formal forum through which the external auditors, the Audit Committee determined that the key risks of auditors report to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice material misstatement of the Groups financial statements related to: yearly.
The objectivity of the external auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the 1.
Valuation of investments key forecast assumptions external auditors are appointed to perform non-audit services and 2.
Valuation of investments valuation discount rates the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
Valuation of Investments We have reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of As outlined in Note 12 to the financial statements, the total carrying the Companys independent auditors and recommended to the Board value of financial assets at fair value at 31 March 2015 was that KPMG Channel Islands Limited be reappointed in respect of the 1,709.7m.
Market quotations are not available for these financial coming financial year.
assets such that their valuation is undertaken using a discounted cash flow methodology.
This requires a series of material I or another member of the Audit Committee will continue to be judgements to be made as further explained in Note 3 and Note 4 to available at each Annual General Meeting to respond to any the financial statements.
questions from shareholders regarding our activities.
The Audit Committee discussed the valuation process and John Hallam methodology with the Investment Adviser in July 2014 and November Audit Committee Chairman 2014 as part of the review of the Interim Report and again in February 2015 and May 2015 as part of the review of the Annual Report and 20 May 2015 Accounts.
The Investment Adviser carries out a valuation semiannually and provides a detailed valuation report to the Company.
The The main duties of the Audit Committee are: Audit Committee also receives a report and opinion on the half-year and year-end valuation from a third party valuation expert.
giving full consideration and recommending to the Board for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual financial The Audit Committee met with the external auditors at the time at statements and reviewing the external auditors report thereon: which the Audit Committee reviewed and agreed the external reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence auditors Group audit plan in February 2015 and also at the and objectivity of the external auditors: conclusion of the audit of the financial statements in May 2015 and reviewing the draft valuation of the Groups investments prepared in particular discussed the audit approach to the valuation.
by the Investment Adviser, receiving an independent review of the valuation from a third party expert and making a recommendation Valuation of Investments to the Board on the valuation of the Groups investments: key forecast assumptions The Audit Committee considered in detail those assumptions that reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the audit, are subject to judgement that have a material impact on the audit related and non-audit fees payable to the external auditors valuation.
The key assumptions are considered to be future inflation and the terms of their engagement: rates, deposit interest rates and tax rates.
These assumptions are set reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the out and explained in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio and Note following financial year, including a review of appropriateness of 4 of the financial statements.
In addition a more detailed cashflow proposed materiality levels: analysis was undertaken for certain investments by the Investment reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting Adviser.
This review considered new data that was used to reforecast policies: and project cashflows across a number of investments, resulting in a net ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal 21.6m increase in the value of the portfolio.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 75 Section 9: Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment Advisers report, in Investment Entities conjunction with a report and opinion on the valuation from a third Accounting Standard party valuation expert.
The Investment Adviser confirmed to the The Audit Committee discussed the Investment Entities standard Audit Committee that the valuation assumptions were consistent which the Company early adopted for the March 2014 financial with those used for acquisitions and the third party valuation expert statements and considered it appropriate to continue applying the confirmed that the valuation assumptions were within a range of standard for the March 2015 financial statements, consistent with acceptable outcomes.
The Investment Adviser provided sensitivities showing the impact of At the meeting of the International Accounting Standards Board changing these assumptions and these have been considered by the IASB in October 2014, Investment Entities: Applying the Audit Committee and the auditors.
The auditors considered the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and judgements on these assumptions using their own expertise and IAS 28 was issued in December 2014 a revision to the existing experience and comparisons to observable market data.
On the standard that states that investment entities should measure all of basis of their audit work there were no adjustments proposed.
their subsidiaries that are themselves investment entities at fair value.
The Audit Committee concluded that the Investment Advisers This revision to the Investment Entities standard does not become valuation process was robust, a consistent valuation methodology effective to the Company until the financial year ending in March had been applied throughout the year and that the key forecast 2017.
The potential impact on the Companys financial statements is assumptions applied were appropriate.
unclear at this point, though it is not expected to impact either earnings or net assets materially.
A further assessment is however Valuation of Investments required on which subsidiaries can be consolidated, if any, and Discount rates whether financial information will require different presentation, The discount rates adopted to determine the valuation are selected including the use of pro-forma statements.
and recommended by the Investment Adviser.
The discount rate is applied to the expected future cash flows for each investments The Audit Committee debated the timing and potential impact of the financial forecasts derived adopting the assumptions explained application of the revised standard with the Investment Adviser and above to arrive at a valuation discounted cash flow valuation.
The Audit Committee concluded that the current application resulting valuation is sensitive to the discount rate selected.
The of the standard remains the clearest way to present the current Investment Adviser is experienced and active in the area of valuing financial performance and position of the Group to stakeholders and these investments and adopts discount rates reflecting their current that potential changes as a result of the revised standard will not be and extensive experience of the market.
The Investment Adviser sets effective until the financial year ending in March 2017. out the discount rate assumptions and the sensitivity of the valuation of the investments to this discount rate in Section 2.5 Tender of the external audit Valuation of the Portfolio and Note 4 of the financial statements.
KPMG Channel Islands Limited KPMG has been the external auditors for the HICL Group since the Company listed on the London In particular, the Audit Committee considered in detail the two Stock Exchange in March 2006.
The lead audit director has changed reductions of 0.2% 0.4% in total in the reference discount rate once, in 2010, to Mr Stormonth, in accordance with audit director applied at 31 March 2015 compared with that applied respectively in rotation arrangements.
the 30 September 2014 and 31 March 2014 valuations.
The Investment Adviser explained this was principally as a consequence During the year, the Audit Committee initiated and completed the of increased competition in the secondary market for social and process of tendering the external audit for the financial year ending transportation infrastructure assets, which had been seen during March 2016.
The intention to tender was first stated in the March bidding and general market activity.
This was also corroborated by 2014 Audit Committee Report and took into consideration best the third party valuation expert.
practice in light of the revisions to the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code and the 2013 AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
The Audit Committee challenged the Investment Adviser on their material judgements and also compared this to feedback from the Feedback on the proposed tender process was obtained from a number third party valuation expert.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that of major shareholders.
The Audit Committee then issued a request for the range of discount rates were appropriate for the valuation carried a proposal to four firms in November 2014 following a review by the out by the Investment Adviser.
Audit Committee to determine which firms to invite to tender.
The auditors explained the results of their audit and that on the basis Mr J Hallam, as Chair of the Audit Committee, and Mrs S Evans, of their audit work there were no adjustments proposed that were together with representatives from the Investment Adviser, met in material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
December 2014 with all four firms who were invited to tender.
Proposals were submitted subsequently from three firms whilst the fourth firm decided to withdraw from the process.
76 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 Following an Audit Committee review of the submissions, the To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee members resolved to recommend the continuing Committee reviewed: appointment of KPMG as auditors, deeming this course of action to be in the best interests of shareholders, by virtue of the strength of the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and the KPMG audit team and a lack of demonstrable differentiation variations from it: shown by the challengers.
reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the course of the audit: Assessment of the external auditors feedback from the Investment Adviser evaluating the The objectivity of the external auditors is reviewed by the Audit performance of the audit team: and Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external the Financial Reporting Councils annual report on audit auditors may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external The Audit Committee is satisfied with KPMGs effectiveness and auditors, with particular regard to any non-audit work that the independence as auditors having considered the degree of diligence auditors may undertake.
In order to safeguard auditors and professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
independence and objectivity, the Audit Committee ensures that any other advisory and or consulting services provided by the external auditors do not conflict with their statutory audit responsibilities.
Advisory and or consulting services generally only covers reviews of interim financial statements, tax compliance and capital raising work.
Any non-audit services conducted by the auditors outside of these areas which are above 20,000 in aggregate in any year require the consent of the Audit Committee before being initiated.
The external auditors may not undertake any work for the Company in respect of the following matters preparation of the financial statements, valuations used in financial statements, provision of investment advice, taking management decisions or advocacy work in adversarial situations.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
Total fees paid amounted to 0.7m for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014: 0.7m of which 0.3m related to audit and audit related services to the Group, 0.3m related to the audit of the Groups project subsidiaries which are paid to the UK associate of KPMG Channel Islands Limited and other audit related services, and 0.1m was in respect of taxation advisory and non-audit services.
Notwithstanding such non-audit services, the Audit Committee considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, the Audit Committee considered: changes in audit personnel in the audit plan for the current year: a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and its associates.
