Under the supervision of the Nomination Committee, the Company continues to work with Thomas & Dessain International Search and Selection to manage a structured and thorough search process.
AUDIT COMMITTEE In accordance with the AIC Code, an Audit Committee has been established and its membership and Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website.
In the opinion of the Board, the constitution, terms of reference and activities of the Audit Committee fulfil all the requirements of the AIC Code, save that the Company does not maintain an internal audit function.
The report of the chairman of the Risk Committee can be found on page 37.
The Board continue to seek to ensure that all areas of risk and control were addressed by either that committee or the Audit Committee.
Consequently the terms of reference of each committee make the division of responsibilities between them clear.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the controls and systems in place to address, inter alia, the risks of loss or misappropriation of assets, mis-statement of liabilities or failure of financial reporting systems or processes, including valuation reporting and processes.
The Audit Committee also examines the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP or EY, remuneration and engagement, as well as their independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee monitors the performance of the auditor and may, if deemed appropriate, consider arranging for the external audit contract to be tendered in 2016 being ten years from the initial appointment with the aim of ensuring a high quality and effective audit.
Each year the Board examines the Audit Committees performance and effectiveness, and ensures that its tasks and processes remain appropriate.
Key areas covered included the clarity of the Audit Committees role and responsibilities, the balance of skills among its members and the effectiveness of reporting of its work to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee have relevant financial experience and knowledge and ensure that such knowledge remains up to date.
Overall the Board considered the Audit Committee had the right composition in terms of expertise and has effectively undertaken its activities and reported them to the Board during the year.
MANAGEMENT AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In accordance with the AIC Code, a Management and Remuneration Committee has been established and its membership and Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website.
The function of the Management and Remuneration Committee is: a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator, the Investment Manager and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: Page 26 v. 2.7
