Audit Committee Report MEMBERSHIP The current Chairman of the Audit Committee is Steve Le Page, who became Chairman on his appointment to the Board on 3 June 2014.
Paul Meader was a member of the Committee throughout 2014 and 2015.
Richard Crowder Company Chairman was a member of the Audit Committee throughout 2014 but resigned from the Committee on 13 January 2015.
John Le Prevost joined the Committee on 28 November 2014 and served until the date of his resignation, and Sarita Keen joined the Committee on 3 June 2015 on her appointment to the Board.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE AIC CODE In the opinion of the Board, the Audit Committee of the Company complies with the recommendations and requirements of the AIC code in all respects except as follows The Chairman of the Company was a member of the Committee as the Board considered that he was independent on appointment.
The Company does not have an internal audit function, because it has no employees and operates no systems of its own, relying instead on the employees and systems of its external service providers.
It should also be noted that the Company has established a Risk Committee to address the risks pertaining to the investment performance of the Company, and therefore the scope of the Audit Committee does not extend to consideration of those risks.
The Board has reviewed the scope of both Committees and is satisfied that all risks to which the Company is subject are appropriately managed.
The Audit Committee met on five occasions during 2015 four in 2014.
The auditor attended two of these meetings, during which time the Committee and the auditor met privately, that is in the absence of any service providers.
KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE In the period since the last Audit Committee report, the key activities of the Committee have been Monitoring and assessing the financial systems and controls operated by the Companys key service providers: Overseeing the preparation and publication of, and giving appropriate advice to the Board in respect of, the interim report for the six months ended 30 June 2015 and the current annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015: Page 40 v. 2.7 Discussing with the Auditors the review, by the Audit Quality Review Team AQRT of the Financial Reporting Council, of the Auditors audit of the 31 December 2014 financial statements of the Company: Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit and the performance, independence and quality of the auditors to the Company.
Each of these key activities is covered in more detail in the following sections.
FINANCIAL SYSTEMS AND CONTROLS OPERATED BY SERVICE PROVIDERS In common with most investment funds, the Company is reliant on the systems, processes and controls operated by its service providers.
Throughout the year, the Committee is alert to any indication that service providers may not be performing as expected, such as inaccurate or delayed information, shareholder feedback and the level and standard of interaction between service providers.
In so doing the Committee uses its collective knowledge of how other entities are serviced as well as their own experience from previous roles with other service providers.
During November 2014 a Director visited the Companys Secretary and Administrator to carry out a detailed review of their processes under the direction of the Management & Remuneration Committee, and the findings have been taken into account by the Committee.
Finally, in March 2015 the non-executive directors all visited BlueCrest, the investment manager of AllBlue Limited and AllBlue Leveraged Feeder Fund Limited the BlueCrest Funds, to discuss their processes and activities and their possible impact on the Company.
In addition, the Committee has reviewed the third party controls reports ISAE 3402 or equivalent reports provided by the following key service providers during 2015 ISAE 3402 Report from the administrator of AllBlue: ISAE 3402 Report from the investment manager of AllBlue.
On 1 December 2015, BlueCrest, and the Board of Directors of each of the relevant BlueCrest Funds or General Partner, where appropriate announced that the BlueCrest Funds would embark upon a programme to return the capital managed in those funds to investors.
The Board of the Company, as more fully described in the Chairmans Statement, after due process appointed Highbridge Capital Management, LLC Highbridge as its investment manager.
During the process of selecting Highbridge an operational due diligence report was obtained from an independent agency experienced in carrying out such work.
That report did not identify any control or operational weaknesses at Highbridge which were of concern to the Board or the Company.
On the basis of the activities described immediately above, the Committee identified some delays and inaccuracies, none of which resulted in any financial loss.
As a result, the Committee is satisfied that the Companys reliance on service providers during 2015 was not misplaced and that the systems of internal Page 41 v. 2.7 control operated on the Companys behalf, both during the calendar year 2015 and currently, should prevent material error or misstatement of financial information.
PREPARATION OF INTERIM AND ANNUAL REPORTS Prior to each reporting period end, the Committee met with the Secretary and Administrator, and also with the auditor prior to the annual reporting date.
As Chairman, I also met with each of these parties separately.
The primary purpose of all of these meetings was to consider the timetable for production of the reports, to review the proposed scope of the external audit of the annual report, and the arrangements for cooperation between the Companys service providers.
The Companys key risks, principal accounting policies and significant areas of judgment or estimation all as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report were also considered for appropriateness and completeness.
As a result of these meetings we were able to conclude that the annual report production process had been properly planned and prepared for.
In August 2015 and April 2016 the Committee reviewed the draft interim and annual reports, respectively, for compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and applicable Law or regulation, and also reconsidered the key risks, principal accounting policies and significant areas of judgment or estimation to ensure the disclosure of these items and their application in the reports remained appropriate.
This review and reconsideration included further meetings with the auditor and Secretary and Administrator.
It also included certain activities connected with the review of service providers, as detailed above.
The significant issues which the Committee considered in relation to these Financial Statements, in addition to those set out elsewhere in this section, were the existence and valuation of the Companys investment holdings.
Existence was verified by obtaining direct confirmation from the administrators of AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and ICS.
The price at which each investment is valued was also confirmed directly in this way.
In addition, the Committee considered the results of the service provider monitoring referred to above and especially the ISAE 3402 report from the administrator of AllBlue, and also reviewed the cash and valuation statements received post year end.
The Committee concluded that the investments existed and were properly valued in accordance with the accounting policy of the Company, set out on page 51 Having carried out the activities set out above the Committee concluded that the Financial Statements were fairly stated.
The Committee also read the entire annual report for consistency both internally and with their detailed knowledge of the Company throughout the year, and also considered whether it was as clear and as concise as possible.
We then considered the information needs of the likely users of the annual report and whether they were met.
Our conclusion was that, taken as a whole, the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Finally in respect of the annual report, in April the Committee considered the regular monitoring of the Page 42 v. 2.7 Companys cash position carried out by the Board, together with a detailed cash forecast for the period until 30 April 2017.
The principal uncertainty involved in the forecasting of the Companys cash requirements is the level at which cash will be utilised in support of the Companys quarterly tender offer to Shareholders.
The Committee is satisfied that with the level of cash held, the regular monitoring by the Board and the liquidity of the Companys investments, it is appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern basis.
AQRT REVIEW OF THE 2014 EXTERNAL AUDIT The AQRT of the Financial Reporting Council carries out inspections of the audits of public interest entities in the UK and Crown Dependencies, including Guernsey.
Each year the AQRT routinely selects a number of audits carried out by the large audit firms, including Ernst & Young LLP, with a view to inspecting the audits of all FTSE 350 companies over a five year cycle.
Ernst & Young LLPs audit of the Companys 31 December 2014 Financial Statements was part of this routine inspection programme in the 2014 2015 cycle.
The inspection was carried out during the second half of 2015 and the results of the inspection were reported to Ernst & Young LLP and the Company in January 2016.
The AQRT reported findings in two areas from their work.
These have been carefully considered by the Audit Committee.
They have also been discussed between Ernst & Young LLP and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP has appropriately responded to these findings in the 2015 audit and that the quality of the 2014 audit was not compromised.
AUDITORS As noted above the Committee has met with the auditors on several occasions and this has given us the opportunity to assess the quality of the people involved in our audit and of the content and relevance of their presentations.
We have also been able to take into account the results of the AQRT review of the 2014 audit, as noted above.
During our meetings with them we considered their risk assessment, planned responses and general approach as well as their actual delivery against plan, and we separately discussed with our Administrator the degree of challenge they experienced from the auditors.
We concluded that the external audit process was appropriate to the Companys circumstances and likely to prove effective.
The auditors provide only minimal non-audit services to the Company, and it is the Committees expectation that this situation will continue, as we do not anticipate the need to seek any services from them, other than the verification of the conversion ratio as described on page 32.
The Committee has a formal policy concerning non-audit services, detailed on the companys website, should the need arise.
The Committee has also considered all the aspects of auditor independence set out in the Code and in the Ethical Standards applicable to our auditor, at both the planning and final delivery stages of the audit.
We Page 43 v. 2.7 note that Ernst & Young are also auditors to the significant investments held by the Company at the year end and to other structures managed or advised by BlueCrest and its affiliates.
We have carefully considered whether these other audit relationships might impinge upon the independence of our auditors and have concluded that any perceived risk in this respect is adequately safeguarded against.
The Committee having concluded that the external audit is effective and that the auditors are independent and competent has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP be put to the forthcoming AGM of the Company.
Steve Le Page Chairman of the Audit Committee Page 44 v. 2.7
