Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Corporate governance codes Board of Directors Corporate governance Board of Directors codes The Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings the Board aims to promote the long-term success of the Company and HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate deliver sustainable value to its shareholders.
Led by the Group Chairman, the Board sets the strategy During 2015, HSBC complied with the applicable code and risk appetite for the Group and approves capital and provisions of: i the UK Corporate Governance Code issued operating plans presented by management for the by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014: and achievement of the strategic objectives.
Implementation ii the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code set out in of the strategy is delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
The UK Directors Corporate Governance Code is available at www.
uk The names and brief biographical details of the Directors and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code is available are included on pages 249 to 254.
The Board has adopted a dealing code for transactions Executive Directors in HSBC Group securities by Directors Code for Dealing in The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group HSBC Group Securities.
This code of conduct meets the Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC requirements of the FCA Listing Rules and the Rules employees.
Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that The Stock Exchange of Hong Non-executive Directors Kong Limited has granted waivers from strict compliance Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees and with the Rules which take into account accepted practices in do not participate in the daily management of HSBC: they the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
bring an independent perspective, constructively challenge Following specific enquiry, each Director has confirmed and help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the that he or she has complied with the code of conduct performance of management in meeting agreed goals and throughout the year.
All Directors are routinely reminded of objectives and monitor the Groups risk profile and the their obligations under the Code for Dealing in HSBC Group reporting of performance.
bring a wide variety of experience from the public and private sectors, including the leadership of large complex multinational enterprises.
Non-executive Directors terms of appointment The Board has determined the minimum time commitment expected of non-executive Directors to be about 30 days per annum.
Time devoted to the Company could be considerably more, particularly if serving on Board committees.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial threeyear term and, subject to re-election by shareholders at annual general meetings, are typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
The Board may invite a director to serve additional periods.
All Directors are subject to annual election by shareholders.
Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each of the non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in London.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for running HSBCs business.
Descriptions of the roles 1 The Group Risk Committee is responsible for the oversight of internal and responsibilities of the Group Chairman and the Group control other than internal control over financial reporting and risk management systems Hong Kong Corporate Governance Chief Executive are available at www.
com aboutCode provision C. 3.3 paragraphs f, g and h. If there were no hsbc corporate-governance board-committees.
Their key Group Risk Committee, these matters would be the responsibility of responsibilities are set out below.
