Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on HSBCs website.
To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBCs website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.
If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email.
If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBCs website and would like to receive a printed copy or, if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email quoting your shareholder reference number to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2015 is available upon request after 18 March 2016 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Computershare Investor Services PLC Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor The Pavilions Hopewell Centre Bridgwater Road 183 Queens Road East Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hong Kong United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future.
Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC.
BH New York Stock Exchange ADS HSBC Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Senior Manager Investor Relations Head of Investor Relations Asia-Pacific HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central United Kingdom Hong Kong Telephone: 44 0 20 7991 3643 852 2822 4908 Email: investorrelations@hsbc.
hk Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2015, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs website: www.
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC 20549-0213 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
Investors should call the Commission at 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
The legislation requires HSBC Holdings to publish additional information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 by 31 December 2016.
This information will be available at the time on HSBCs website: www.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 473 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
