Appointments to the most senior positions Internal control within HSBC require the approval of the Board.
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the Risk identification and monitoring.
Systems and effectiveness of risk management and internal control procedures are in place to identify, control and report systems and for determining the aggregate level and types on the material risk types facing HSBC as set out below: of risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic wholesale credit risk: objectives.
retail credit risk: Procedures insurance risk: To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under the FCA Handbook and PRA Handbook, procedures asset, liability and capital management risk: have been designed for safeguarding assets against market risk: unauthorised use or disposal: for maintaining proper accounting records: and for ensuring the reliability and financial management risk: usefulness of financial information used within the business model risk: or for publication.
reputational risk: These procedures can only provide reasonable but not pension risk: absolute assurance against material mis-statement, errors, losses or fraud.
They are designed to provide effective strategic risk: internal control within HSBC and accord with the Financial sustainability risk: and Reporting Councils guidance for directors issued in 2014, operational risk including accounting, tax, legal, internal control and related financial and business regulatory compliance, financial crime compliance, reporting.
Our procedures have been in place throughout fiduciary, political, physical, internal, external, the year and up to 22 February 2016, the date of approval contingency, information security, systems, of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. operations, project and people risks.
In 2014, the GAC endorsed the adoption of the COSO 2013 Exposure to these risks is monitored by risk framework for the monitoring of risk management and management committees, asset, liability and capital internal control systems to satisfy the requirements of management committees and executive committees in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Additionally, subsidiaries and, for the Group, in Risk Management the risk management framework enabled the GRC to Meetings of the GMB RMM which are chaired by monitor controls over principal risks to meet the the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The RMM meets regularly requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and to discuss enterprise-wide risk management matters.
the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code.
Asset, liability and capital management matters are HSBCs key risk management and internal control monitored by the Group ALCO, which reports to the procedures include the following: RMM.
The Global Standards Manual GSM HSBCs operational risk profile and the effective brings together the common standards and principles implementation of the Groups operational risk used in the conduct of all business, whatever its location management framework are monitored by the Global or nature.
The GSM overlays all other manuals Operational Risk Committee, which reports to the RMM.
throughout the Group and is a fundamental component Model risks are monitored by the Model Oversight of the Groups risk management structure.
It establishes Committee which also reports to the RMM.
the high level standards and policies by which, and within which, all members of the Group conduct their Changes in market conditions practices.
The GSM is mandatory and applies to, and in place to identify new risks arising from changes in must be observed by, all businesses within the Group, market conditions practices or customer behaviours, regardless of the nature or location of their activities.
which could expose HSBC to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage.
The Group employs a top and Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board.
Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the emerging risks framework at all levels of the organisation, Group Chief Executive has been delegated authority which enables it to identify current and forward-looking risks and to take action which either prevents them limits and powers within which to manage the day-to-day materialising or limits their impact.
During 2015, affairs of the Group, including the right to sub-delegate attention was focused on: those limits and powers.
Each relevant Group Managing Director or Group Executive Director has delegated economic outlook and capital flows: authority within which to manage the day-to-day affairs geopolitical risk: of the business or function for which he or she is accountable.
Delegation of authority from the Board turning of the credit cycle: requires those individuals to maintain a clear and regulatory developments affecting the business appropriate apportionment of significant responsibilities model and profitability: and to oversee the establishment and maintenance of regulatory commitments and consent orders: systems of control that are appropriate to their business HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 275 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Internal control Going concern and viability regulatory focus on conduct of business and financial Global function management.
Management of the crime: global functions are responsible for setting policies, procedures and standards to control the principal risks dispute risk: detailed under Risk identification and monitoring people risk: above.
execution risk: Authorities to enter into credit and market risk third-party risk management: exposures are delegated with limits to line management of Group companies.
The concurrence of the appropriate model risk: global function is required, however, to credit proposals cyber threat and unauthorised access to systems: with specified higher risk characteristics.
Credit and and market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary company level and aggregated for risk data management.
concentration analysis on a Group-wide basis.
Strategic plans are prepared for global Internal Audit.
The establishment and maintenance of businesses, global functions and geographical regions appropriate systems of risk management and internal within the framework of the Groups overall strategy.
control is the responsibility of business management.
Annual Operating Plans, informed by detailed analysis of The Global Internal Audit function, which is centrally risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk controlled, provides independent and objective that the Group is prepared to take in executing its assurance in respect of the adequacy of the design and strategy, are prepared and adopted by all major HSBC operating effectiveness of the Groups framework of risk operating companies and set out the key business management, control and governance processes across initiatives and the likely financial effects of those the Group, focusing on the areas of greatest risk to initiatives.
The Group Head of Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Committee Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the GAC and reviews material public disclosures made by HSBC administratively to the Group Chief Executive.
Executive Holdings for any material errors, misstatements management is responsible for ensuring that issues or omissions.
The membership of the Disclosure raised by the Global Internal Audit function are Committee, which is chaired by the Group Company addressed within an appropriate and agreed timetable.
Secretary, includes the heads of Finance, Legal, Risk, Confirmation to this effect must be provided to Global Communications and Investor Relations.
The integrity of Internal Audit.
disclosures is underpinned by structures and processes Role of Board Committees within the Global Finance and Global Risk functions that support expert and rigorous analytical review of On behalf of the Board, the GAC has responsibility for financial reporting complemented by certified reviews overseeing risk management and internal controls over by heads of global businesses, global functions and financial reporting and the GRC has responsibility for certain legal entities.
overseeing risk management and internal controls, other than over financial reporting.
The Groups financial reporting process for preparing the consolidated Annual Report During the year, the GRC and the GAC have kept under and Accounts 2015 is controlled using documented review the effectiveness of this system of internal control accounting policies and reporting formats, supported and have reported regularly to the Board.
In carrying by a chart of accounts with detailed instructions and out their reviews, the GRC and the GAC received: guidance on reporting requirements, issued by Group regular business and operational risk assessments: Finance to all reporting entities within HSBC in advance of each reporting period end.
The submission of regular reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and financial information from each reporting entity the Group Head of Internal Audit: to Group Finance is subject to certification by the reports on the annual reviews of the risk control responsible financial officer, and analytical review framework of HSBC Holdings which cover all internal procedures at reporting entity and Group levels.
controls, both financial and non-financial: Responsibility for risk management.
Management are half yearly confirmations to the GAC and GRC from audit primarily accountable for measuring, monitoring, and risk committees of principal subsidiary companies mitigating and managing the risks and controls in their regarding, in relation to audit committees, whether their areas of responsibility.
Processes are in place to ensure financial statements have been prepared in accordance weaknesses are escalated to senior management and with Group policies, present fairly the state of affairs of addressed, supported by the three lines of defence the relevant principal subsidiary and are prepared on a model.
going concern basis: IT operations.
Centralised control is exercised over all reports confirming if there have been any material IT developments and operations.
Common systems are losses, contingencies or uncertainties caused by employed for similar business processes wherever weaknesses in internal controls: practicable.
internal audit reports: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 276 assessed the effectiveness of relevant IT, business, external audit reports: monitoring and period-end mitigating controls.
prudential reviews: and regulatory reports.
Going concern and viability The GRC and GAC have separately established governance The financial statements are prepared on a going concern frameworks for their respective oversight and interaction basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and with the audit and risk committees of key entities within the Parent Company have the resources to continue in business Group.
These provide for regular reporting, issues escalation for the foreseeable future.
and processes for the nomination and endorsement of In addition to the requirement to consider whether the going subsidiary committee appointments.
These principles and concern basis is appropriate, the Directors now have an processes have in turn been cascaded by these key entities to obligation under the UK Corporate Governance Code to state their respective subsidiaries to provide clear vertical channels in a Viability Statement whether they believe the Group and of governance.
parent company will be able to continue in operation and The internal control responsibilities of the GAC and GRC meet their liabilities, taking account of their current position are complemented by the activities of the Conduct & Values and principal risks, our top and emerging risks, and specify Committee CVC and the Financial System Vulnerabilities the period covered by and the appropriateness of this Committee FSVC which, respectively, oversee internal statement.
controls over conduct-related matters and financial crime It is expected that the period assessed under the Viability compliance.
The GRC receives regular reports at each of its Statement will be significantly longer than 12 months, which meetings on the activities of both the CVC and the FSVC.
The is the period over which going concern is assessed.
For HSBC, GRC monitors the status of top and emerging risks and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group considers whether the mitigating actions put in place are and parent company will be able to continue in operation appropriate.
In addition, when unexpected losses have arisen and meet liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
or when incidents have occurred which indicate gaps in the control framework or in adherence to Group policies, In making the going concern and viability assessments, the GRC and the GAC review special reports, prepared at the Directors have considered a wide range of information the instigation of management, which analyse the cause relating to present and future conditions, including future of the issue, the lessons learned and the actions proposed by projections of profitability, cash flows, capital requirements management to address the issue.
The assessment has been made over a period of three years Effectiveness of internal controls as this is within the period covered by the Groups future The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, have conducted projections of profitability, the period over which regulatory an annual review of the effectiveness of our system of risk and internal stress testing is carried out, and the period over management and internal control covering all material which key capital and leverage ratios are forecast.
Therefore controls, including financial, operational and compliance detailed management information exists for three years, controls, risk management systems, the adequacy of enabling Directors to assess the viability of the Group.
resources, qualifications and experience of staff of the The Directors are satisfied that the period is sufficient to accounting and financial reporting teams and the Global Risk enable a reasonable assessment of viability to be made.
In function, and their training programmes and budget.
The doing so, the Directors have assessed the principal risks annual review of effectiveness of our system of risk which for the Group are set out in our top and emerging management and internal control over financial reporting risks on page 43, including the status of the DPA, as more was conducted with reference to the COSO framework.
The fully described on page 307, that could threaten the Groups annual review of other controls was undertaken using the future prospects and business model.
They considered the risk management framework on pages 102 to 103. effect that those risks could have on the Groups risk profile The GRC and the GAC have received confirmation that relative to the risk appetite approved by the Board see executive management has taken or is taking the necessary pages 101 and 102.
The Directors view all of the identified actions to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified top and emerging risks as relevant to the assessment of through the operation of our framework of controls.
In doing so, the Directors considered the range of particular, during the year it was determined that the control information concerning each principal risk, including but not environment associated with IT privileged access required limited to the Annual Operating Plan, the programme of significant improvement.
Deficiencies were noted in the regulatory and internal stress tests, risk appetite and legal design and operation of controls for the granting, release and reports.
The Directors also considered the information from monitoring of privileged access in a number of systems.
For the two reverse stress tests which the Group runs, one based the identified deficiencies management responded by on extreme macroeconomic dislocation in Europe and Asia, implementing a programme to determine the scale and the other linked to the DPA.
The Directors considered the nature of the deficiencies, remediate identified control principal risks in forming the strategic actions set out on page deficiencies and determine if privileged access had been 18, ensuring that the misused during 2015.
Management also identified and forward-looking risk profile of the Group remained within Information relevant to the assessment of viability can be our risk appetite.
found in the following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 277 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
