Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement The board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and seeks Investor relations calendar highlights to promote good relations and effective and transparent dialogue with them.
The board receives regular investor reports which detail the feedback from investor meetings and roadshows attended by executive directors and senior management.
It also receives the results of investor perception studies which are undertaken by 2014 results announcement external consultants.
This feedback helps inform board discussion 2014 results presentation Q1 particularly as it relates to the views of investors and analysts London on strategy.
This dialogue will continue in 2015 16.
Investor roadshow London Movements on the share register are monitored and reviewed Analysts briefings on 2014 results at board meetings to ensure a continuing understanding of the London share register.
Investor conferences The Chairman, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, New York, Nice the Group Company Secretary and the executive directors have met with key institutional investors during the year to discuss succession planning and the proposals for the 2015 16 remuneration policy.
2014 annual general meeting Q1 Interim Management The Company publishes its half and full-year financial statements, Q2 Statement IMS stock exchange announcements and analyst presentations via the Q1 IMS conference call investor relations section of its website, www.
In addition Investor meetings there are regular meetings during the year with investors and London, New York, Toronto analysts subject to regulatory constraints to update them Trading update conference call on developments in the Groups strategy and performance.
Institutional shareholders by geography UK 61% US 21% Half-year results announcement Rest of Europe 11% Investor conference Rest of world 7% Q3 London Half-year results presentation London Percentage at 31 March 2015 Investor roadshows Boston, London, New York Q3 IMS Proposed remuneration policy Q4 engagement with institutional investors on proposals for the 2015 16 remuneration policy Q3 IMS conference call Investor group lunch London Analysts briefing London Investor roadshows Frankfurt, San Francisco 52 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAPs top ten institutional shareholders at 31 March 2015 BlackRock Fidelity Worldwide Investment FIL Jupiter Asset Management Legal and General Asset Management Marathon Asset Management Norges Bank Investment Management Oppenheimer Funds Schroder Investment Management Silchester International Investors State Street Global Advisors Annual general meeting The Companys seventeenth annual general meeting will be held on Wednesday 15 July 2015 at 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR.
This gives shareholders the opportunity to ask questions of the directors on the Groups business.
All directors attended the 2014 annual general meeting.
In accordance with the Code and the Companys articles of association all directors will stand for re-election in July 2015.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting are set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
The notice is made available to shareholders on the Companys website, or sent to them if they have elected to receive hard copies, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with votes withheld, will be made available after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Results of the 2014 annual general meeting The total number of proxy votes cast for the 2014 annual general meeting represented over 80% of the total voting rights.
Resolution Votes for and discretionary % Votes against % Annual Report 99.98 0.02 Dividend 100.00 0.00 Resolutions to appoint and re-elect directors 97.49 99.92 0.08 2.51 Re-appoint auditor 99.93 0.07 Set auditor remuneration 99.96 0.04 Remuneration report 99.76 0.24 Directors remuneration policy 67.36 32.64 Allot relevant securities 85.31 14.69 Disapply pre-emption rights 86.24 13.76 Market purchases 99.98 0.02 Political donations 99.91 0.09 General meeting notice 97.43 2.57 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 53 Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement continued UK Corporate Governance Code non-executive directors.
Iain Torrens, Group Finance Director, The corporate governance statement sets out how the Company resigned from the board on 12 December 2014.
David Ireland, Chief has applied the principles of the Code during the year ended Finance Officer, Group Finance, was appointed as Interim Group 31 March 2015 and details ICAPs governance framework and Finance Director and will continue in that role until the new Group practices, together with the remuneration report on pages 72 to 90.
Finance Director takes office in September.
John Nixon retired from The Code can be found on the FRCs website at www.
his role as Group Executive Director, Americas and resigned from the board on 31 March 2015.
Board governance The board is responsible for providing leadership of the Group and for John Sievwright is the senior independent director and is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the ensuring the Group has the appropriate people, financial resources and controls in place to deliver the long-term objectives, commercial normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer or other executive director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is strategy and risk management strategy set by the board.
Details of the strategic priorities and the business model are given in the inappropriate.
No such concerns have been raised during the year.
strategic report on pages 13 to 20.
The independence of the non-executive directors is reviewed on an Roles and responsibilities annual basis as part of the directors evaluation process.
This takes The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are clearly into account length of tenure, ability to provide objective challenge defined and distinctly separate.
This division of responsibilities has to management and any relationships that might be considered been set out in writing and approved by the board.
The roles and as a factor when determining independence.
All have shown responsibilities of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer, independence of character and exercised independent judgement.
non-executive directors and the Group Company Secretary The board has determined that all directors are independent against are summarised below.
the criteria stated in the Code.
Board members The non-executive directors are members of the principal ICAP is headed by an appropriately experienced board.
During the committees of the board, these being Governance, Nomination, year, the board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors, Audit, Risk and Remuneration.
The Nomination Committee makes the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Executive Director, recommendations for appointments to the Audit and Risk Americas and the Group Finance Director and four independent Committees.
The board makes all other committee appointments.
Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Leadership of the board Leads the Global Executive Management Group Facilitates and encourages directors to maximise Oversees the operational performance of the Group their contributions to the board Recommends the Groups commercial strategy Ensures effective communication with shareholders to the board and ensures its implementation and other stakeholders Supports the Chairman to ensure appropriate Sets clear expectations concerning ICAPs culture, values and standards of governance behaviours and the style and tone of board discussions Knowledge Experience Non-executive directors Group Company Secretary Provide independent and constructive challenge Works closely with the Chairman and the executive to board and management decisions directors to set the agenda for meetings of the board and its committees Represent a broad range of experience and independent judgement Ensures the timely presentation of high-quality information to the board and its committees to enable the directors to Support the Chairman and executive directors in instilling exercise their judgement in the discharge of their duties appropriate culture, values and behaviours of the board Facilitates the induction of new directors Serve on the principal committees of the board to the board and the Group Governance, Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Provides advice on corporate governance issues Ensures board procedures and applicable rules are observed 54 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Effectiveness Leadership Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAPs governance framework Chairman The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
Board Governance Committee Risk Committee Group Chief Executive Officer Responsible for leading and managing the business, within limits Read more p58 Read more p63-67 delegated to him by the board.
Global Executive Management Group Responsible for proposing commercial strategy to the board, Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee overseeing the performance of Group business and for setting the commercial direction of these businesses.
Read more p59 Read more p72-90 Global Operating Committee Responsible for all matters affecting the operations of the Group including the implementation of strategic directives and the maintenance of a robust control environment.
Audit Committee Read more p60-62 Group Finance Committee Executive responsibility for the Groups financial structure and financial control environment.
Activities during the year Six board meetings were held during the year.
Between these The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors and the meetings, the board convened by conference calls to receive Group Company Secretary, sets the agenda for board meetings.
trading reports and updates on current issues which included All directors receive documentation prior to each meeting on the regulatory investigations and the recruitment of the new matters to be discussed to enable them to exercise their judgement Group Finance Director.
in the discharge of their duties.
GEMG members and other senior Board attendance executives attend meetings by invitation to present on their areas of The following table sets out the directors who served on the board expertise and responsibility within the business.
During the year this during the year and their meeting attendance.
Where a director included a presentation from Global Brokings management regarding did not attend meetings owing to prior commitments or other the restructuring of its business, as well as management updates unavoidable circumstances, he received the relevant papers and from Traiana, the ICAP SEF and Global Business Services, the Groups provided input to the Chairman in advance of the meeting so that shared services function.
The board also received various product his views were known.
Total Attended The board operates in accordance with an approved schedule of Charles Gregson 6 6 matters reserved for the board.
The board specifies policies and delegated authorities to which all members of the Group are Michael Spencer 6 6 required to adhere.
Details of the principal matters reserved for John Nixon 6 6 the board include the following: Iain Torrens 4 4 to approve the Groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy, Ivan Ritossa 6 5 budget and significant acquisitions, investments and disposals: Diane Schueneman 6 6 to determine the Groups risk appetite and risk management John Sievwright 6 6 strategy: Robert Standing 6 6 to approve changes to the capital structure: Iain Torrens resigned from the board on 12 December 2014. to approve the Groups financial statements and its interim management statements: and to approve the interim dividend and make a recommendation for the final dividend.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 55 Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement continued Summary of board business during the year ended 31 March 2015 Strategy Risk and governance Debated the strategy to expand the Groups addressable Reviewed the Groups ICAAP for 2014 and identified market.
Combining EBS and BrokerTec to deliver an expanded further improvements planned for 2015. product offering.
Developed revised Group risk appetite statements to Reshaping Global Broking implemented an extensive cost more closely align with the Groups business strategy.
savings programme for the Group which delivered annualised Reviewed the Groups operational risk framework savings of 70 million exceeding the target of 60 million.
Reviewed strategic investments including EBS Direct and Received updates on the Groups approach to technology ICAPs SEF.
Continued focus on technological change and product Reviewed the Groups risk and compliance initiatives to innovation.
reinforce culture and conduct through positive risk behaviours, Reviewed the Groups legal entity and management structures monitoring and training.
to align capital efficiency with business operations.
People, culture and values Budget and performance oversight Launched an initiative focused specifically on further Maintained oversight of the Groups financial performance developing corporate culture, looking at how to define, embed in line with budget and market expectations.
and measure the right culture throughout the Group.
Approved the Groups annual budget.
Examined the key external influences shaping the people agenda.
Reviewed the Groups dividend policy.
Developed a new directors remuneration policy for 2015 16 Regularly reviewed ICAPs share price and performance metrics.
which is appropriate to ICAPs business model and strategy.
External environment Incorporated culture as a key element of the GEMGs 2014 15 Considered the appropriate responses to key regulatory objectives, along with growth, profit, controls and people.
changes faced by the Group and industry as a whole including the Fair and Effective Markets Review recommendations.
Recruited a new Group Finance Director.
Reviewed the succession plan for the board and Stakeholder relationships senior management.
Engaged with shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting and considered shareholder feedback on the ICAP 2014 Annual Report.
Examined feedback received from the Groups lead and global regulators and implemented changes required by ongoing financial regulatory reform.
Engaged with customers in key regions.
Engaged with institutional shareholders on proposals for the 2015 16 remuneration policy.
Regularly reviewed ICAPs share register activity and institutional investor perceptions.
56 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Board induction and training This years review focused on the composition and tenure of the On joining the board, new directors receive a tailored and board, succession planning arrangements and the boards strategic comprehensive induction programme, comprising a combination and operational oversight of the Group.
The overall view of the of briefings on specialist topics and meetings with the directors, boards performance was positively rated.
In particular, the review the Group Company Secretary and a wide range of senior confirmed that the level of engagement of all directors, their management.
This covers directors duties and the UK listing involvement between board meetings and their understanding regime, an overview of the business, its operations, risk and of the views of investors had improved since the last evaluation.
regulatory matters, governance, finance and investor relations.
The current overlap between the boards priorities and the The purpose of the programme is to provide a new director with strategic priorities of the business was considered indicative appropriate knowledge of the opportunities and challenges facing of a high-performing board.
ICAP, enabling the director to contribute fully to the boards strategic discussions and oversight of the business.
The Chairmans evaluation was led by John Sievwright as senior independent director.
It concluded that the Chairmans leadership During the year all directors received a number of updates on the of the board is effective.
It was noted that the Chairman sets regulatory environment, from both external advisors and ICAPs agendas with sufficient time for transparent and honest discussion senior managers, and update briefings on governance changes and and debate at board meetings.
The Chairmans management of the their implications for ICAP.
The board evaluation process identified board was highly rated: he has the confidence of the directors and specific areas of development for the coming year.
has built a positive, open and productive relationship with them.
Directors may also obtain independent professional advice in Directors conflicts of interest respect of their duties to the board and to its committees at the The board has procedures in place for the disclosure of conflicts Companys expense.
Directors are aware of their responsibility to avoid Board meetings are held at various Group locations to assist with a situation whereby they have an actual or potential conflict of the boards greater understanding of the business and to provide interest and the requirement to inform the Chairman and the an opportunity for the directors to meet with local management Group Company Secretary of any change in their situation.
An and employees to gain a wider view of these businesses.
effective procedure is in place for the board to authorise conflict situations should they arise, in accordance with the Companies Act Board committees 2006 and the Companys articles of association.
The Group To assist the board in carrying out its duties, certain roles and Company Secretary is responsible for keeping appropriate responsibilities are delegated to the board committees records, including the scope of any authorisations granted by Governance, Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration.
During the the board, and ensuring the board undertakes regular reviews year, the Operational Risk Framework Implementation Committee of conflict authorisations.
assessed the achievement of its objectives and agreed that the operational risk framework was sufficiently advanced, such that Compliance with the Code the responsibility for this work could be continued through the risk It is the boards view that for the year ended 31 March 2015, management team.
The final committee meeting was held in subject to external audit tendering as noted in the Chairmans November 2014. statement, the Company has been fully compliant with all the principles and provisions set out in the Code.
Details of the membership and work of these committees are shown on pages 58 to 90.
Board evaluation During the year ended 31 March 2015, an independent evaluation of the board and the board committees was externally facilitated by Lintstock.
All board members and the Group Company Secretary were asked to complete a questionnaire and participated in interviews conducted by Lintstock regarding responses to the questionnaire.
The objective of the evaluation was to provide insight into the effectiveness of the board and to identify actions for improving performance.
Lintstock does not provide any other advisory services to ICAP.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 57 Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement continued Governance Committee meetings Governance Committee Where directors did not attend meetings owing to prior commitments or other unavoidable circumstances, they received the relevant papers and provided input to the Chairman in advance of the meeting so that their views were known.
Total Attended Charles Gregson Chairman 5 5 Michael Spencer 5 4 Charles Gregson John Sievwright 5 5 Chairman, Governance Committee Iain Torrens 4 3 The committee is responsible for the review of governance Iain Torrens resigned from the board on 12 December 2014. arrangements.
It offers recommendations and makes decisions Activities during the year in relation to all aspects of the governance environment of the An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance Group and its principal subsidiaries to ensure that the Groups are considered by the committee and that business and reporting governance facilitates efficient, effective management that can requirements are met.
deliver shareholder value over the longer term.
It is authorised by the board to carry out any activity within its terms of reference, During the year, the committee reviewed its terms of reference which are available to view on the Companys website at to include regulatory enquiries.
The committee receives regular www.
updates on any regulatory investigations.
The principal areas of responsibility are: The committee continued to oversee the delivery of both the Undertakings agreed with the CFTC and the FCA Body of Orders to review the Groups governance standards: which were required to be implemented following the yen Libor to review regulatory enquiries: settlements.
The committee received and discussed updates on the remediation programme throughout the year and has received to review and approve the Group policies and final reports confirming that all the actions were completed during delegated authorities: the year.
These final reports included details of controls which have to review and approve the design and delivery of training been put in place to ensure ongoing compliance for the Audit provided to the Companys directors and directors of Committee to review as part of its workplan.
subsidiary companies: The committee has reviewed subsidiary governance oversight to approve the terms of reference of the board committees: and approval of new business divisional governance arrangements and well as reviewing the EMEA control environment for to approve the composition of the boards of the Groups regulated businesses.
principal subsidiaries: During the year, the committee reviewed the remit of the GOC and to review the operation of the applicable governance the Group Risk and Capital Committee.
The committee established arrangements for ICAPs RIE and the SEF entities and other the new GFC, replacing the Group Risk and Capital Committee, significant subsidiaries: and to better align the executive responsibility with the governance to review and determine reputational risk issues related environment.
to proposed new business initiatives or transactions.
Under the committees responsibility for reviewing core The committee reports to the board.
governance standards, the committee has reviewed the Companys compliance with the Code and explanations to shareholders as to Committee members how its implementation is consistent with good governance.
The Governance Committee membership is made up of the Chairman of the board, the senior independent director, the Committee evaluation Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director.
An external evaluation of the Governance Committee rated its The Chairman of the board is Chairman of the committee and performance positively.
In particular, the committees oversight of the Global Chief Operating Officer and the Group General regulatory permissions and reporting of the Groups subsidiaries Counsel are attendees.
was highly rated, as was the committees work in reviewing and approving terms of reference of the board and the Groups The following table sets out the directors who served on the executive management committees.
Governance Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance: The committees focus for 2015 16 will include improved oversight of the Groups regulated subsidiaries and a regular review of the committees terms of reference, to ensure best practice is being employed.
58 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Following Iain Torrenss decision to resign as a director, the Nomination Committee committee evaluated the knowledge and experience required to fill this position.
Based on an agreed role, person and skill set specification, the appointment of Stuart Bridges as Group Finance Director was facilitated by an external recruitment firm, Spencer Stuart, which worked with the Chairman and the committee to determine a range of suitable candidates.
Members of the committee met with a short list of candidates, after which the committee was able to formulate its recommendation.
The final Charles Gregson recruitment decision was determined by the full board of directors.
Chairman, Nomination Committee Spencer Stuart does not provide any other services to the Group other than recruitment services.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size, composition and succession planning of the board.
As part of the committees discussions, succession planning was reviewed for directors and other senior executives to ensure there The Nomination Committee operates within its terms of reference continued to be the appropriate mix of skills and experience within which are available on the Companys website at www.
the Group to cover the various challenges and opportunities facing The principal areas of responsibility are: the Company.
to identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, An example of succession planning in action has been the candidates to fill board positions as and when they arise: appointment of David Ireland as Interim Group Finance Director to lead the finance team following the departure of Iain Torrens to balance the skills, knowledge and experience on the board: in December 2014 until the new Group Finance Director arrives in September.
to give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives: and The committee has also reviewed the tenure of non-executive to keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, directors as part of non-executive director succession planning to ensure that a majority of independent non-executive directors both executive and non-executive.
The committee reports to the board.
Board appointment policy Committee members ICAP is committed to providing and promoting equality of The committee members are appointed by the board and comprise opportunity in employment and advancement and an environment a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman that ensures tolerance and respect for all employees.
ICAPs policy of the board is the Chairman of the committee.
is that no employee, applicant, contractor or temporary worker will be treated less favourably, victimised or harassed on the grounds The following table sets out the directors who served on the of disability, gender, marital or civil partnership status, race, Nomination Committee during the year and their committee nationality, colour, ethnicity, religion or similar philosophical belief, meeting attendance: sexual orientation, age or any distinction other than merit.
Nomination Committee meetings Accordingly, all board appointments are made on merit, Total Attended acknowledging the benefits a diverse range of skills, experience, Charles Gregson Chairman 3 3 background and gender can bring to the board and the committee therefore does not support the implementation of quotas.
Michael Spencer 3 3 Committee evaluation John Sievwright 3 3 The performance of the Nomination Committee in reviewing the Diane Schueneman 3 3 composition of the board and the committees management of Robert Standing 3 3 succession planning for executive and non-executive directors was positively rated by the external evaluation.
Activities during the year The importance of the committee continuing to focus on board During the year the committee reviewed the balance of skills succession planning was highlighted as a priority for 2015 16.
It and experience of the board as a whole in determining whether was noted that, as the business transitions in response to market further non-executive director appointments should be made.
changes, the board may require the addition of different expertise It was agreed that there was no specific skills or experience gap in order to ensure its continued effectiveness.
within the composition of the current board but that this would continue to be reviewed in line with the development of the Groups strategy.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 59 Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement continued The effectiveness of ICAPs external auditor and auditor tenure have Audit Committee remained high on the committees agenda during the year.
PwC and its predecessor firms have been ICAPs auditor since 1999.
The committee recognises this is a significant length of time and regularly reviews PwCs effectiveness through the quality of the audit findings and managements response and through an annual review process.
The committee also ensures that audit partners are rotated regularly to maintain independence.
PwCs audit and non-audit fees are set, monitored and reviewed by the committee throughout the year.
The John Sievwright non-audit spend was in line with the current policy of not exceeding Chairman, Audit Committee 75% of the audit fee.
The committee considers that the relationship with the external auditor continues to work well and remains Chairmans overview satisfied with its effectiveness and independence.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce The committee has discussed the requirements of the Code this report which sets out how the committee has discharged its and the final order published by the Competition and Markets responsibilities during the year.
The committees primary focus Authority in respect of tendering the Groups external audit and is to ensure the integrity of financial reporting by reviewing the has recommended to the board that it does not carry out a tender controls in place and those areas where judgement is required.
In making this assessment, the committee While the principal areas of judgement for the committee remained has considered the transition process required ahead of an audit the same as the prior year, the committee spent time considering tender to ensure that a tender process would include a full range the significance, both in nature and size, of the costs of the reshaping of audit firms which are considered independent and cleared of Global Broking and the associated infrastructure costs, in order to of conflict.
The position will be kept under regular review by be satisfied that these could be presented as exceptional items with the committee.
The discussion on the goodwill impairment John Sievwright review was more easily concluded for 2014 15 as the annual review Chairman, Audit Committee testing, using the same methodology as in previous years, showed 19 May 2015 significant headroom between the businesses net assets and recoverable amounts.
Further details of the areas which were addressed can be found in this report on pages 61 and 62.
The board is also required to provide a statement that, taken as a whole, it believes the Annual Report and financial statements to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The governance framework to provide such assurance to the committee and to the board is set out in this report on pages 61 and 62.
The statement itself is on page 71.
60 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Audit Committee Officer Group Finance, Group Head of Internal Audit and the The Audit Committee is responsible for the effective governance external audit partner.
of the Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of The Chairman of the Audit Committee maintains contact with financial disclosures and both the external and internal audit attendees throughout the year.
There have been two meetings functions.
It is authorised by the board to carry out any activity during 2014 15 when the committee has met with the Group within its terms of reference, which are available to view on the Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner without Companys website at www.
any executive director or member of management present.
The principal areas of responsibility are: Activities during the year An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance to review and challenge the integrity of external financial are considered by the committee and that business and reporting reporting: requirements are met.
to review the Groups internal financial controls: During the year, the committees work included: to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal and external auditors: the appropriateness of the half-year and annual financial statements and financial announcements to the London Stock Exchange: to consider the appointment of the external auditor and assess its independence: the going concern statement and the appropriateness of preparing the Groups financial statements for the year and to review and approve the internal audit plan: half-year on a going concern basis: to make recommendations to the board relating to the the review of financial reports from internal auditors and appointment or dismissal of the outsourced internal audit function: the effectiveness of systems for the internal control and financial reporting: to review the major findings and recommendations of external audit reports: and the annual schedule of work to be conducted by the external and internal audit teams: to approve external audit fees.
auditor rotation and appropriate timing: The committee may seek any information it requires from any employee, and all employees are directed to co-operate with review of Group reorganisation and entity consolidation any request made by the Audit Committee.
The committee may proposals: obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice, and to secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience the effectiveness of external audit: and expertise, if the committee considers this necessary, at the the effectiveness of internal audit: and Groups expense.
the EU Capital Requirements Directive IV consolidation waiver.
The Audit Committee reports to the board.
Financial reporting Committee members The committee reviews the Groups accounting policies: it monitors The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive the integrity of the Groups financial statements, including the directors and the committee is chaired by John Sievwright.
The half-year and annual reports and interim management statements, board is satisfied that all committee members have recent and and other announcements relating to the Groups financial relevant financial experience and bring extensive financial expertise performance to ensure that these present a balanced and clear to the committee.
Under the committees terms of reference, and assessment of the Groups financial position and outlook.
to ensure a free flow of information, at least one member of the Audit Committee should be a member of the Risk Committee.
During the year, the committee considered certain accounting Currently, all members of the committee are also members of and financial reporting areas to be of a more subjective nature.
Throughout the year, management presented to the committee its position on those areas that were material in nature and involved The following table sets out the directors who served on the significant management judgement and assumptions.
Audit Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance: The committee considered and approved the Groups significant accounting policies, including managements position on provisions Audit Committee meetings and its definition of exceptional items see the basis of preparation Total Attended statement, which remained consistent with the prior year.
The John Sievwright Chairman 5 5 committee discussed and approved the appropriateness of items, considering their nature and materiality, that were presented in the Diane Schueneman 5 5 exceptional items column in the consolidated income statement.
Robert Standing 5 5 The committee, where appropriate, discussed managements judgements and estimates with the external auditor, and approved Meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the board, the provisions as at 31 March 2015.
Group Finance Director or Interim Group Finance Director, Global Chief Operating Officer, Group General Counsel, Chief Finance ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 61 Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement continued The committee considers the annual goodwill impairment review External auditor to be a significant judgement area and, as such, reviewed the In light of the Codes transitional arrangements and the final order impairment testing which had been undertaken by management published by the Competition and Markets Authority, which came during March 2015.
The impairment test identified that there was into force on 1 January 2015, it is not considered necessary to no impairment.
The committee also reviewed the appropriateness require PwC to tender for the audit work for 2015 16.
As part of classification of the shipping business as a held for sale asset and of its planning for an audit tender, the committee has reviewed the impairment testing of the held for sale asset.
There was no the work undertaken by other audit firms for the Group so impairment charge recorded.
In reviewing this area, the committee that it can ensure that the maximum number of appropriately considered the appropriateness of managements judgements and experienced audit firms may participate in a tender and will estimates and, where appropriate, discussed these judgements not be precluded due to conflict.
and estimates with the external auditor, see note 14 to the During the year, the committee reviewed and approved the financial statements.
proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the 2014 15 Additionally, the auditing standards require the external auditor to audit and recommended to the board that it proposes to presume risks of fraud in revenue recognition as a significant audit shareholders that PwC be re-appointed as the Groups external risk area and to perform procedures to address those risks.
PwC expressed their willingness to continue committee concluded that, based on the findings reported by the as auditor of the Company and resolutions proposing their external and internal auditors, and from its own review of internal re-appointment and determination of their remuneration will control and the risk management system, the financial statements be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on for the year ended 31 March 2015 were not exposed to a material 15 July 2015. risk arising from this risk area.
A policy is in place whereby the expenditure with the Groups The committee considered and approved the Groups tax strategy, auditor on non-audit fee should not exceed 75% of the audit the strategic objectives of which were to deliver shareholder fee.
The committee monitors the balance of spend on audit and value by complying with all tax obligations and being open and non-audit fees to ensure their continued independence.
During transparent with the relevant tax authorities.
the year PwC provided a limited amount of non-audit fee work, including regulatory, corporate restructuring and tax advisory The work described above, together with a review of the messaging work.
The total spend on these services was 800,000 being and content of the strategic report, provided the assurance to 21% of the audit fee 2013 14 19%.
Any proposed non-audit the committee, and to the board, that the Annual Report for the assignments, with fees in excess of 100,000, are subject to the year ended 31 March 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Audit Committees prior approval and fees below this limit are and understandable and provides the information necessary approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and reported to for shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys the committee.
Note 3 to the financial statements details the fees performance, business model and strategy.
paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services.
The committee has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day An evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process financial management and monitoring of financial controls to for 2013 14 was carried out through a questionnaire following the the Group Finance Committee.
completion of the audit for that year.
The results of this assessment were reviewed by the committee in February and March 2015 and Internal audit the committee concluded that the external audit team continued The internal audit function, which is outsourced to KPMG, reports to be effective throughout the Group.
The assessment of the to the Audit and Risk Committees.
Internal audit establishes an effectiveness of the external audit process for 2014 15 will annual audit plan based on discussions with management and be undertaken following completion of the Group audit.
an assessment of the risks inherent in the Groups activities.
The results of these audits provide assurance to management Committee evaluation and to the Audit and Risk Committees that the system of internal The results of an external evaluation showed that the effectiveness control achieves its objectives and highlights gaps and areas for of the Audit Committee and in particular the performance of the improvement.
committee in testing and reviewing the work of the internal and the external auditor was very highly rated.
An evaluation of the KPMG internal audit team and its work was carried out through a questionnaire during the year.
The results The committees areas of focus for 2015 16 will be to prioritise showed that the relationship with the KPMG team was good and additional training on technical accounting matters and annual that significant progress had been made since 2012 in enhancing report disclosures and a continued focus on financial the process around internal audits.
There is general satisfaction with reporting processes.
virtually every aspect of the internal audit outsource arrangement.
Reporting lines into the Audit Committee are clear and understood and actions and recommendations are completed efficiently.
The internal audit priorities for 2015 16 will be on thematic audits that focus on the big areas of concern and risk for the Group.
62 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Wendy Phillis was appointed the Chief Risk Officer in April 2014.
Risk Committee With the support of the Risk Committee, Wendy has undertaken a review of the risk management function and appointed a new senior management team within the risk management function.
Gerry Harvey, Group Head of Compliance, stepped down from his role at the end of March 2015.
As part of his succession planning, and following a review of both the risk management and the compliance functions, it was agreed that the reporting lines for the compliance function would be assumed by the Chief Risk John Sievwright Officer with effect from 1 April 2015.
This structure seeks to align Chairman, Risk Committee the work of these control functions more closely while maintaining the operation of distinct compliance and risk functions, retaining Chairmans overview their independent status.
Risk and compliance management are I am pleased to introduce the Risk Committee report and to use both discussed further within the Risk Committees report.
this opportunity to highlight a number of areas that are significant As part of the committees review of the risk appetite statement, to the committee and its focus during the year.
the key drivers of risk were reviewed and, as a result of changing The committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate market and regulatory environment, the committee agreed that risk culture is properly embedded within the organisation.
In order the principal risks be extended to six.
These principal risks, with to assess the embedding of risk within the business and the the key drivers and mitigation, are explained on pages 24 to 30. effectiveness of the first line of defence, the Risk Committee The Risk Committee recognises the increasing threat of cyber risk has added business risk reviews to its annual workplan.
These to the business and the reputational damage that can be inflicted.
are presented by senior management within the businesses The committee receives information on the cyber threat landscape rather than by members of the risk function and have been very and the Groups technological defences and risk framework in place successful in demonstrating an understanding of risks within the to mitigate against these risks.
This will remain on the Risk businesses they manage and their management of those risks.
To assess the Groups significant risks, the committee uses John Sievwright the ICAAP.
An annual FCA requirement, ICAAPs form an Chairman, Risk Committee assessment of: 19 May 2015 the material risks to the Group in both business-as-usual and stressed conditions: the controls and mitigants used to reduce those risks: and the amount of capital required to appropriately cover those risks.
Within the Group, ICAAPs are owned by the appropriate regulated subsidiary board and, at Group level, it is owned by the board and driven by the executive directors and senior management, with oversight, review and challenge from risk management and the committee.
On behalf of the committee, I reviewed the ICAAP methodology including the scenarios, stress testing and the financials which support the process.
The committee also held additional meetings to consider the outcomes of the Group ICAAP which form an integral part of ICAPs strategic decision making processes.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 63 Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement continued Risk Committee Activities during the year The committee is responsible for setting the overall risk strategy, An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance risk appetite and risk tolerance for the Group to ensure that the are considered by the committee and that business and reporting risk management function within the Group promotes the success requirements are met.
of the Company within this framework.
The Risk Committee is During the year, the committees work included: authorised by the board to carry out any activity within its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website at updates on operational risk and compliance issues: www.
updates on corporate culture developments leadership training, The principal areas of responsibility are: cultural monitoring lexicon, risk mitigation programme update : to review the quality and effectiveness of the Groups risk approval of Group ICAAP and review of additional stress testing: management framework, in particular to ensure that the key review of the Group risk appetite statements to more closely risks of the Group including emerging threats are properly align to the Groups business strategy: assessed and mitigated: review of the operational risk framework implementation to monitor the mechanisms of internal control: and programme: to review the internal audit programme as part business risk reviews ISDX, i-Swap, Global Broking, Traiana of integrated assurance.
and Reset : To ensure and reinforce the independence of the risk and review of internal audit reports: compliance functions, the committee is responsible for approving the appointment and dismissal of the Chief Risk and Compliance regulatory developments training: and Officer and for making recommendations to the Remuneration review of money laundering officers annual report.
To support the Risk Committee in the day-to-day risk The committee reports to the board.
management of the Group certain responsibilities have been Committee members delegated to the GOC.
The Audit Committee, the Risk Committee The Risk Committee members are independent non-executive and the GOC have terms of reference that require all aspects of directors and the committee is chaired by John Sievwright.
Three the Groups risk management activities to be regularly reviewed.
members of the committee are also members of the Audit The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the GOC, the executive Committee facilitating full and free flow of information.
committee with responsibility for the operations of the Group.
In addition to the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and The following table sets out the directors who served on the Risk the GOC, all lines of business and regions have risk committees Committee during the year and their committee attendance.
which are responsible for supervising risk levels in their respective Risk Committee meetings businesses and regions and acting as the interface between front Where directors did not attend meetings owing to prior office management and the Group risk function.
commitments or other unavoidable circumstances, they received Committee evaluation the relevant papers and provided input to the Chairman in advance The effectiveness of the Risk Committee was highly rated by of the meeting so that their views were known.
an external evaluation with the performance of the Chairman Total Attended of the committee being particularly strong.
The quality of the committees review and monitoring of the Groups risk John Sievwright Chairman 7 7 management framework, internal audit function and internal Ivan Ritossa 7 6 audit programme were also very highly rated.
Diane Schueneman 7 6 The committees areas of focus for 2015 16 will include ongoing Robert Standing 7 7 regulatory requirements training, an enhanced focus on risk appetite methodology and metrics, and increased dialogue The Chairman of the board, the Group Finance Director, the Interim with senior members of the risk management team.
Group Finance Director, the Global Chief Operating Officer, the Group General Counsel, the Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Compliance, the Group Head of HR, the Group Head of Internal Audit, the KPMG IT Internal Audit Partner and the external audit partner regularly attend meetings of the committee.
During the year the Group Head of HR was invited to attend the Risk Committee to provide a link to the culture initiative.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee maintains contact with attendees throughout the year and has met with the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Head of Compliance without other members of the executive being present.
64 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Risk control and management framework Three lines of defence model 1st line of defence Client facing business units, support and Group functions Business units function process and risk owners Owns, identifies, manages, and mitigates within a defined risk appetite, the risks and losses within the business units 2nd line of defence Independent control functions Compliance Risk management Provides interpretation of regulations and upstream risk Designs and deploys the overall risk management and disseminates to business units framework across the organisation Develops and monitors policies and procedures Monitors business unit adherence to framework and strategy Monitors and provides challenge on compliance with regulations Monitors and provides challenge on risk across business units function and escalates risk and control Undertakes risk assessment-based compliance testing issues to senior management Advises on regulatory issues and provides training Performs aggregated risk reporting Advises on risk issues and provides training 3rd line of defence Internal audit independent assurance Provides independent testing and verification of efficacy of corporate standards and business line compliance Validates the overall risk framework Provides assurance that the risk management process is functioning as designed and identifies improvement opportunities Provides independent assurance over the key risks faced by the Group The significant risks of the Group are continually monitored, All staff and managers are required to take a prudent approach assessed and managed by operating a three lines of defence model to risk taking and to review regularly the effectiveness of their for the risk and control of the businesses: the model adopted is control environment predominantly through a risk and control demonstrated in the diagram above.
The three lines of defence self-assessment process.
The Groups independent control model is an industry standard concept.
The basic tenet is that risk is functions risk, compliance and internal audit are responsible owned and managed across the organisation with each employee for ensuring that the control environment is fit for purpose and understanding their role and responsibility in managing risk.
able to identify and escalate to senior management the Groups key risks and to mitigate these risks where appropriate.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 65 Organisational strategic risk objectives Governance and directors report Corporate governance statement continued Risk management and compliance Chief Risk and Compliance Officer Global Head Global Head Head of Group Risk Head of Global Head of Electronic Advisory Compliance Core Compliance Broking Risk Broking and Post Trade Risk Compliance department Risk management department Representing the second line of defence, the Groups compliance Representing the second line of defence, the Groups risk management function operates independently to the first line function operates independently to the first line of defence under the mandate set by the board.
During the year, the Groups under the mandate set by the board.
The Chief Risk and Compliance Officer reports to the Risk Committee and, functionally, to the compliance department reported to the Group Head of Global Chief Operating Officer.
The risk function is organised to Compliance, who in turn reported to the Risk Committee and, recognise the individual risk profiles, oversight and challenge needs functionally, to the Global Chief Operating Officer.
From 1 April of the divisions, as well as the need for consistent identification, 2015, the compliance department reports to the Chief Risk and assessment and monitoring of risk across the Group in support of Compliance Officer.
Dedicated compliance departments support the boards requirements.
The Chief Risk and Compliance Officer the businesses operating in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific is a member of the GOC and attends the Risk Committee.
She regions, each under the leadership of regional heads of compliance also attended the Operational Risk Framework Implementation who are members of regional and business level risk committees.
Committee before it was disbanded during the year.
The Groups compliance department operates under the Day-to-day management of risk and its mitigation is the mandate set by the board.
This mandate, inter alia, establishes responsibility of business heads.
Risk management provides an the compliance department as an independent global control independent assessment of the Groups risks and supports the and assurance function which implements and manages ICAPs business heads in identifying, monitoring, mitigating and reporting compliance risk management framework.
This framework is key risks through the use of a range of tools.
In this way, risk designed to provide assurance that ICAPs business is conducted management reviews and challenges the Groups activities both in accordance with applicable rules, regulations and regulatory functionally and globally.
As such, the compliance risk management framework incorporates the requirements of applicable law and published These tools include: international best practice standards, including business advisory support, compliance risk assessment and mitigation, compliance independent monitoring and analysis of the Groups current and monitoring and surveillance, anti-money laundering compliance projected liquidity exposures: and the reporting and escalation of potential and crystallised risks.
credit risk limits based on an internal scoring system with near The Groups compliance department undertakes an annual risk real-time monitoring of credit exposure globally: assessment in each region as the basis for the annual compliance management information, including key risk indicators and plan for those legal entities, desks, offices, business and operating product and region-specific dashboards: units which will be the subject of compliance review and examination.
ICAPs compliance risk management framework is risk based, global risk management policies and procedures: which means that ICAP assesses and ranks its compliance risks operational risk framework: and prioritises its compliance resources accordingly on a Group, regional and business unit basis.
periodic risk and control self-assessments and process maps: and stress testing on current exposure and scenario and probability analysis.
A number of qualitative and quantitative measures are monitored by risk management to ensure that the businesses risks remain within acceptable risk appetite and tolerances.
Using these measures, the Group produces a number of risk intelligence reports which are disseminated through the governance structures at all levels as appropriate.
66 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Internal control The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management and the internal control system, which management is responsible for maintaining, and it does this through the Audit and Risk Committees.
A description of the key risks faced by each division are detailed on page 30.
The day-to-day business of the Group is managed through a system of financial, operational and compliance controls and monitored by a series of risk management systems.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate risks and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the independent internal audit function.
The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and associates.
Internal control procedures for joint ventures and associates rests with the senior management of these operations and the Company seeks to monitor such investments and exert influence through board representation.
The boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control in those entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directlyowned subsidiaries.
Operational Risk Framework Implementation Committee The committee, reporting to the board, was established in September 2013 to provide oversight of the operational risk areas identified as requiring improvement.
The purpose of the committee was to ensure the effective implementation of an appropriate operational risk framework globally and to oversee the embedding of risk within the business and as an integral part of ICAPs culture.
Committee members The committee was appointed by the board from the directors and senior managers of the Company and consisted of the Chairman of the board, a non-executive director, the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel, the Global Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Executive Officer, Global Broking.
The Chairman of the committee was the Chairman of the board.
Activities during the year The committee met five times during the year to discuss and review progress of the implementation of the operational risk framework programme.
During the year, the committee assessed the achievement of its objectives and agreed that the operational risk framework was sufficiently advanced, such that the responsibility for this work could be continued through the risk management team.
The final meeting was held on 3 November 2014.
