Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities Our diverse resources and relationships play an integral role to our success Our people future proof, is of vital importance to our customers.
We work to ICAP employs more than 4,300 people in 32 countries.
We ensure that our global broking, electronic and post trade products recognise the importance of investing in our people and ensuring and services not only meet the current needs of our customers but that we have the right mix of experience and skills to support the also anticipate the greater reliance on electronic transactions as continued success of the business.
regulatory changes come into force in Europe and the US.
Our outstanding ability to adapt to new markets and opportunities We are a leading provider of market infrastructure to the global financial sector through the provision of trade execution, workflow is a direct result of each employees ability and willingness to contribute and influence how we conduct our business.
This position has been achieved as a result of significant investment in our electronic technology and Talent, leadership, culture and employee involvement market infrastructure capabilities over many years.
In 2014 15 Our culture and people are key to our success and must continue we spent 177 million on technology.
to evolve as our business develops.
Our values are extremely important and underpin our business and behaviour.
Recognising We increasingly provide services that are embedded in our the significant amount of change our business has undertaken in customers operational flows and regulatory compliance and are recent years, our values are currently under review to ensure we also embedded in the infrastructure of our customers and other have values that strongly resonate with our business of today.
Technology constitutes a major component of ICAPs cost base.
An increasing proportion of our capital ICAP aims to deliver best in industry results, both financially and expenditure is used in product and technological innovation.
We aspire to be the standard setter for our industry in-house and external suppliers are involved in the development across a broad range of measures, establishing the performance of our technology and we operate technology research and benchmarks that other companies use to judge themselves.
development hubs in New Jersey, Stockholm and Tel Aviv.
The board and our senior leadership play a critical role in setting As evident within the wider financial industry, the threat of cyber the tone from the top.
In particular, our leadership development attack is ever evolving in sophistication and scope.
To mitigate and groups and desk head training sessions have helped us to articulate reduce the industry-wide risk, ICAP continually enhances the security our desired culture, develop a new model for internal communication of its global systems.
We have increased the size and capability of and talent management and ensure reward models reinforce our our IT security function globally and have made significant new goals and beliefs.
investments in technical and procedural controls.
The challenge for the coming year will be to ensure that, through the ICAP leadership team, all our employees understand and engage with our values and aspirations.
Developing talent The achievement of our corporate goals ultimately depends on the quality of the people we have in our business specifically their capabilities, ethics and motivation.
We have made and will continue to make a significant investment to develop the skills and capabilities of our people and to ensure that each employee is aware of their responsibilities.
Compliance and risk management training is delivered to ICAP employees and contractors.
The leadership and management training provided to more than 60 senior managers and over 200 desk heads reinforces our cultural values and builds best business practice.
Since the ICAP global graduate recruitment programme began Ken Pigaga in 2006, 341 graduates have joined the Group.
We are proud of Global Chief Operating Officer our record of nurturing and retaining this pool of high potential individuals.
By building strong links with universities round the world we are able to attract fresh talent into our businesses.
Our graduate programme, combined with internships, apprenticeships and insight opportunities, ensures that we continue to identify and connect with a broad range of individuals at all levels and from ICAPs position as a leading market diverse backgrounds.
infrastructure provider is the Technology result of a significant investment We have developed world-class, proprietary processes and in our technology capabilities procedures across our chosen markets.
This means that our clients have access to expertise, proven technologies and experience to over many years.
Technology is at the heart of our business.
The ability to transact on systems with the highest level of stability, and that are up to date and ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued Reputation ICAP seeks to anticipate industry change, assess and develop new Our reputation is important to us, both as a service provider to business opportunities and manage the risks that inevitably arise the global financial services industry and as a key part of the in this process.
To do this the Company must attract, motivate communities in which we operate.
and retain creative people, and manage itself and its infrastructure and processes in a way which fosters agility and provides an The ICAP brand is a hugely important and valuable business asset environment where employees are heard and valued.
which influences the opinions and behaviours of external and As at 31 March 2015 the board of ICAP plc comprised two internal stakeholders.
Our brand image and business reputation is an outcome of how we operate as a business, what services we executive directors and five non-executive directors of whom one non-executive director is female.
The senior managers of provide, how we communicate and how we treat our customers, colleagues and partners.
While recognising that corporate and the Company excluding the board comprised 11 women and 72 men and the Group employed 1,100 women and 3,206 men.
marketing communications are an important factor, the customer experience through the delivery of ICAPs portfolio of products and Gender ratio services is ultimately the most important driver of brand reputation Board of directors and strength.
Male 86% As an international business operating in 32 countries we aim Female 14% to conduct our business in a socially responsible manner and to contribute to the communities in which we work, and we respect the needs of employees, investors, customers, suppliers, regulators and other stakeholders.
Gender ratio We endeavour to behave in accordance with established best Senior management practice in each of the countries in which we operate, to be Male 87% a responsible employer, and to adopt values and standards Female 13% designed to help guide our employees in their conduct and business relationships.
We engage with our stakeholders in an open and co-operative way, ensuring full, transparent, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure to encourage sustained and long-term mutually rewarding relationships.
Gender ratio We operate a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy, Employees which is approved by the board.
Male 74% Female 26% Rewarding performance Remuneration is a key lever in encouraging and rewarding the right people for doing the right things, both in the current year and in delivering future success.
It also represents the single biggest investment in assets for ICAP.
Health and safety The Group has a health and safety policy which is approved by the This year variable pay has continued to emphasise sustainable board and owned by the Global Chief Operating Officer.
Regional growth and key measures around governance and people as well health and safety committees ensure there is an effective structure as financial goals, reinforcing our strategy of organic growth for delivering compliance with the policy.
Under the policy all through innovative products and technology solutions.
managers have the responsibility to ensure that a healthy and safe Equal opportunities and diversity policy working environment is in place for all employees.
As the great ICAP is committed to employment policies that provide and majority of the Groups employees work in office environments, promote equal employment opportunities for all our employees there are no significant areas of risk on which to report.
and applicants and to maintaining a workplace that ensures Compliance and controls tolerance, respect and dignity for all our employees.
No employee, We believe that enhancing leadership skills throughout the Group applicant, contractor or temporary worker is treated less favourably, and emphasising the integrity of our approach to business and victimised or harassed on the grounds of disability, sex, marital or customers creates an environment in which innovation and civil partnership status, race, nationality, colour, ethnicity, religion or entrepreneurship can flourish within a compliance and risksimilar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, age or any distinction focused culture that is in keeping with our values.
Consideration is always given to human rights principles as part of the Groups working practices.
ICAP invests in its compliance and control risk infrastructure, including trade surveillance, communications monitoring, operating a whistleblowing hotline, and a comprehensive training policy.
32 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions As a key part of the global financial infrastructure, ICAP respects both the spirit and the letter of the control, compliance and assurance environment within which the Group operates worldwide.
Integrity ICAP endeavours to build and maintain a relationship of openness and trust with our customers, partners, investors and regulators.
To do this the Company and our employees are expected to behave consistently and within standards of ethical and professional conduct at all times.
ICAP is committed to employment policies that provide and promote equal employment opportunities for all our employees and applicants and to maintaining a workplace that ensures tolerance, respect and dignity for all our employees.
Vanessa Cruwys Group Head of HR ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 33 Strategic report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued ICAPs emissions by scope The Group is committed to undertaking business to the highest Year ended 31 March 2015 standards and has very clear ethical guidelines which are issued to all Group companies in both English and, where appropriate, Tonnes of CO e emissions 2 local languages.
Compliance with these ethical guidelines is Scope 1 442 monitored by the Audit Committee and through the Groups Scope 2 18,143 internal audit procedures.
The Group has a zero-tolerance attitude towards the payment of any kind of bribe and a programme of Scope 3 12,967 internal training is in place to ensure that all employees are aware Total 31,552 of the Groups policies.
Scope 1 includes direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are Customers owned or controlled by the Company such as natural gas combustion and The quality of our relationships with our customers is a core company owned vehicles.
Our customers rely on us to provide Scope 2 accounts for greenhouse gas emissions from the generation insight into the marketplace and expertise in applying knowledge of purchased electricity, heat and steam generated off-site.
and skills to their advantage.
They also require us to be absolutely trustworthy and professional in everything we do.
Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions such as waste disposal, business travel and employee commuting.
We have a broad and growing customer base.
Our traditional customers are primarily banks, with the relative size of specific Total emissions per full time employee has reduced from customers varying considerably by product and geography.
2 2 No single customer represents more than 10% of our revenue.
As in previous years, we will be mitigating our total carbon One of our key strategic priorities is to expand and diversify our customer base outside our traditional areas of expertise.
emissions by investment in carbon reducing projects.
Government and regulatory bodies The above estimates were prepared by The CarbonNeutral We have ongoing relationships at various levels with governments Company, an environmental consultancy.
CarbonNeutrals and regulatory authorities in our countries of operation to ensure assessment was carried out in accordance with the Greenhouse we have a current and detailed understanding of the relevant Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
legislation and regulatory frameworks in which we and our Responsibility for emissions sources was determined using the customers have a presence.
These relationships help shape the operational control approach.
policy formation process and enable us to communicate and Social and community co-ordinate policy and regulatory change across all relevant parts We believe that ICAP contributes to the economies in which we of ICAPs business.
They also provide timely input that can assist in operate by helping companies and organisations manage and the formation of strategy.
This relationship thus mutually benefits mitigate their business risks and by helping government and all parties by assisting authorities and the ICAP Group in meeting companies raise capital.
wider objectives through the sharing of knowledge and expertise.
Our principal contribution is to help the efficient functioning of Joint ventures and associates the global markets.
Our broking and electronic platforms provide ICAP has formal relationships with a number of other transparency, source liquidity and enable price discovery for our organisations around the world which offer specialist products customers.
The move towards electronic trading in OTC markets, and services to a broader range of customers.
These provide us where ICAP is a leader, together with our Post Trade Risk and with access to specific regional expertise and also help us to meet Information division, helps to make markets more resilient, safer local regulatory requirements.
We also have several associated and more transparent.
companies which cover a wide range of services from treasury consultancy to highly specialised broking businesses.
We have a small direct footprint in terms of social and community issues as traditionally defined, but we recognise that the markets Environment in which we operate have a considerable impact in these areas and The Groups environmental policy is approved by the board and our behaviour and activities can have a positive effect.
owned by the Group Finance Director.
Wherever possible, ICAP takes into account the direct and indirect environmental impact of This is directly reflected in our annual Charity Day event.
As a service-orientated business, the major sources positively reflects ICAPs culture.
It unites all our employees of greenhouse gases arise from the running of our global network globally, our customers and suppliers together in an effort to raise of offices and employee travel commitments.
It has a positive impact on public awareness not only of ICAP but, possibly more importantly now, Emissions associated with electricity consumption increased of the broader financial services community of which we are slightly from 19,513 tonnes of CO e during 2013 14 to 19,746 2 a member.
Emissions from air travel decreased by 20% from 6,353 tonnes of CO e during 2013 14 to 5,055 in 2014 15.
2 34 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Strategic report Results for 2014 15 Summary The 10% increase in Post Trade Risk and Information revenue Headline financial performance was driven through increased participation in triReduce portfolio compression cycles and the uptake of the portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve.
Subscription-based revenue increased in products such as CreditLink and cross-asset regulatory reporting Year ended Year ended 31 March in Traiana.
Electronic Markets revenue decreased 1% on a constant 31 March 2014 currency basis, with EBS revenue increasing by 2%, offset by a 2% 2015 restated Change m m % revenue decrease in BrokerTec.
Revenue 1,276 1,378 7 Group net trading operating expenses of 1,024 million were 6% Trading operating profit 252 290 13 lower than the previous year, mostly driven by an 11% decrease in Global Broking as the cost saving programme initiated over the past Trading profit before tax 229 271 15 three financial years has taken 175 million of cumulative annualised Profit before tax 95 121 21 costs out of the business.
41 million of net cost savings were achieved from the successful completion of the Groups 2014 15 Change pence pence % restructuring programme.
A further 12 million of incremental net annualised savings attributable to the prior year cost reduction Trading EPS basic 28.7 33.2 14 initiatives was also achieved.
Additionally, the flexibility of the cost EPS basic 13.0 15.7 17 base continued to be enhanced through the restructuring of broker Dividend per share 22.0 22.0 compensation as contracts became due for renewal.
The total broker and support headcount in Global Broking reduced by 740 in the year 2013 14 results were restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting standards on joint ventures.
See basis of preparation statement on page 103. to 2,336 employees and the broker compensation ratio was reduced by four percentage points to 53%.
Trading results are before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
Consistent with the Groups growth strategy, ICAP continues to make significant investment in the Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information divisions.
During the year the Group Trading operating profit, trading profit before tax and trading invested 43 million in new business lines including EBS Direct, EPS basic exclude acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional the ICAP SEF, triCalculate and Traiana Limithub, an increase of items see the basis of preparation statement on page 103.
The 1 million compared with the same period last year.
The total 2013 14 income statement was restated to reflect the adoption headcount of Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and of new accounting standards on joint ventures.
Information businesses expanded by 119 during the year to 1,226 employees.
Summary For the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group reported revenue The Group reported a trading operating profit of 252 million, of 1,276 million, 7% below the prior year.
On a constant currency 13% down on the prior year.
The Groups trading operating profit basis, revenue from Post Trade Risk and Information was up 10%, margin reduced to 20% 2013 14 21%.
The proportion of the which was offset by decreases of 1% in Electronic Markets and Groups trading operating profit generated from the Electronic 11% in Global Broking.
Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information divisions increased to 75%, reflecting a five percentage point increase on the prior year.
During the course of the year, the Groups trading performance was impacted by a combination of structural and cyclical factors.
Group trading profit before tax of 229 million and trading Bank deleveraging, in response to stricter regulatory capital EPS basic of 28.7p were 15% and 14% down on the prior requirements, negatively impacted the trading activity of ICAPs year respectively.
Profit before tax was 95 million 2013 14 customers, particularly in the Global Broking division.
This was 121 million, reflecting a 15 million decrease in acquisition partly offset in the second half of the year by the European and disposal costs partially offsetting the 42 million decrease quantitative easing announcements and the speculation on the in trading profit before tax.
timing of a US interest rate rise which resulted in increased volatility.
Some of the revenue loss within Global Broking was as a result of closed businesses as the Group successfully completed its restructuring programme.
In response to the challenging trading conditions experienced towards the end of 2013 14 and into the first half of 2014 15, the Group embarked on a comprehensive review and restructuring of the Global Broking division.
As a result of this action, coupled with improved market volumes and new product initiatives, in the second half of 2014 15 the Group delivered a trading profit before tax of 143 million, an increase of 8% on the prior year.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 35 Strategic report Results for 2014 15 continued Electronic Markets During the year, BrokerTec marginally improved its leading market 2015 2014 Change share in the interdealer US Treasury on-the-run market, reflecting Revenue m m % the continued technology and infrastructure improvements to BrokerTec 128 133 4 the platform.
Volumes on BrokerTec benefited from the Federal Reserves tapering programme and the end of quantitative easing in EBS 124 122 1 the US.
Geopolitical events and economic unrest during the course Other electronic platforms 7 10 25 of the year also drove investors to buy US Treasuries in a flight to Total reported 259 265 2 quality trade and to take advantage of the wide spread between EU and US yields.
constant currency 262 1 The repo market is pivotal to the effective functioning of almost all financial markets, and provides an efficient source of collateralised Trading operating profit 93 107 13 money market funding.
During the year, the main headwind of both Trading operating profit the US and European repo markets was regulatory change, as firms margin 36% 40% 4ppt deal with the new capital and liquidity requirements that emerged from Basel III.
European government bond volumes on BrokerTec improved as a number of new market-making initiatives resulted in higher volumes.
ICAP operates BrokerTec and EBS, which are electronic trading Increased client footprint, most notably in Italy, with more domestic platforms in fixed income and FX.
These platforms offer efficient regional banks using BrokerTec, complemented ongoing efforts to and effective trading solutions to customers in more than 50 improve market share in the Italian sovereign bond market.
countries across a range of instruments including spot FX, US EBS Treasuries, European government bonds and EU and US repo.
EBS, ICAPs electronic FX business, is a reliable and trusted source These electronic platforms are built on ICAPs bespoke networks of orderly, executable and genuine liquidity across major and connecting participants in financial markets.
It has responded to changing market In December 2014, ICAP announced plans to combine its dynamics by transitioning from a business with a single offering to electronic business to create EBS-BrokerTec.
The combined one that can support multiple execution methods and multiple business allows ICAP to leverage BrokerTecs market leading ways of trading through a common distribution network.
platform, client relationships and strong team, as well as EBSs Overall activity levels in the major currency pairs during the first technology and innovation pipeline, to deliver unique products five months of the year remained subdued, as FX volatility remained and services to the industry and expand the addressable market at historically low levels.
A number of central bank interventions, for of both platforms.
example by the ECB in September, the Bank of Japan in October For the year ended 31 March 2015, Electronic Markets revenue and the Swiss National Bank in January, drove an increase in FX volatility resulting in an increase in volume on EBS.
In addition, decreased by 2% to 259 million 2013 14 265 million.
The overall trading operating profit margin declined by four percentage quantitative easing in Europe was a major driver of activity levels in euro dollar.
As a result, average daily volume on EBS was 42% points to 36% mainly as a result of increased investment in EBS Direct.
higher in the second half compared to the first half of the year.
Average daily volume for the year was 6% higher than in 2013 14.
BrokerTec Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2015 increased by 1% to BrokerTec is the global electronic platform for the trading of 124 million 2013 14 122 million.
US Treasuries, European government bonds and EU and US repo.
BrokerTec facilitates trading for institutions, banks and non-bank EBS Market, the exchange-like flagship platform, is a central limit professional trading firms.
order book that allows customers to match interest anonymously with other participants in the market.
It has maintained its position For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue decreased by 4% to as a primary interbank venue for the trading of the worlds most 128 million 2013 14 133 million reflecting a 3% increase in actively traded currency pairs, including euro dollar and dollar yen.
US Treasury average daily volumes to $163 billion, a 1% increase The unpegging of the Swiss franc in January resulted in significantly in US repo to $220 billion and a 7% decrease in European repo increased trading volumes in euro Swiss franc and dollar Swiss to $233 billion.
franc, demonstrating the pivotal position EBS has in the FX markets during times of high volatility.
36 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Consistent with the strategy to expand into growth markets, volume traded in emerging market currency pairs saw a significant growth of 101% on 2013 14.
The dollar offshore Chinese renminbi remains one of the most actively traded currency pairs on EBS Market, and volumes have grown by more than 400% during 2014 15.
NDFs also experienced both positive growth and broader customer interest, with a 102% increase in volume on the previous year.
EBS Direct, which launched in November 2013, is a fully disclosed relationship-based platform that allows liquidity providers to stream tailored prices directly to liquidity consumers.
It has continued to grow steadily following a hiatus to allow for a technology upgrade at the end of 2014.
Average daily volume increased from $5 billion in April 2014 to $17 billion in March 2015.
The platform now has 20 liquidity providers and over 350 liquidity consumers using the service.
Interest in EBS Direct continues to grow, with an additional 200 new customers in the pipeline in addition to 20 new liquidity providers.
EBS Direct, which launched in November 2013, is a fully disclosed relationship-based platform that allows liquidity providers to stream tailored prices direct to liquidity consumers.
Jeff Ward Global Head of EBS Direct ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 37 Strategic report Results for 2014 15 continued Electronic Markets Post Trade Risk and continued Information EBS Direct is expected to remain in an investment phase in 2015 2014 Change 2015 16 as new functionality, services and products are added Revenue m m % to the platform, including the launch of FX swaps and outright TriOptima 67 54 24 forwards and the integration of MyTreasury, a service for corporate Traiana 53 47 11 customers.
During the year 23 million has been invested in EBS Direct, of which 7 million has been capitalised.
Reset 39 41 5 Information Services 69 70 1 In March 2015, a new global liquidity platform, EBS Select, went live with a beta launch to complement the existing multi-product Total reported 228 212 8 offerings.
EBS Select will provide customers with the option of constant currency 207 10 trading in a non-disclosed environment using a multi-prime broker model.
30 liquidity consumers and six liquidity providers are participating in the beta roll-out.
Trading operating profit 97 96 1 EBS Hedge, a new innovative product, was designed for Trading operating profit systematically driven risk management, allowing e-FX trading margin 43% 45% 2ppt desks to match with other e-FX desks when interests cross.
Having launched the beta phase in December 2014, it has experienced exceptional support from the EBS community, with seven customers currently live and another six customers The Post Trade Risk and Information division operates market connecting to the test lab environment, and a further 20 infrastructure for post trade processing and risk management customers have expressed a strong interest to participate across asset classes and enables users of financial products to in the product in the coming year.
reduce operational, second order financial and system-wide risks.
The services offered by Post Trade Risk and Information enable i-Swap customers to increase the efficiency of trading, clearing and i-Swap, ICAPs global electronic trading platform for IRS, has settlement and facilitate the effective management of capital continued to build on its market position and has brought increased and risk weighted assets and associated cost.
transparency, greater efficiency and lower transaction costs to the worlds largest OTC derivative market.
i-Swap is central to ICAPs The portfolio risk services businesses comprise TriOptima and SEF strategy and is the trading platform utilised for required and Reset, which identify, neutralise, remove and reconcile risk within permitted interest rate derivative transactions.
Electronic portfolios of derivatives transactions: Traiana, which provides pre momentum in dollar interest rate swaps is building on the i-Swap trade risk and post trade processing solutions: and the information platform as banks transition liquidity from voice to electronic and data sales business.
venues to take advantage of lower execution costs, enhanced During the year, Post Trade Risk and Information invested more trade opportunities and post trade efficiencies.
than 18 million in development in order to offer new products In Europe, while there is consistent liquidity on the platform at the and enhance the functionality of existing services.
two, five and ten-year points, activity levels are conditional on the For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue increased by 10% on levels of market volatility.
Targeted streaming has been introduced a constant currency basis and by 8% on a reported basis to 228 recently with five liquidity providers actively providing tiered pricing million 2013 14 212 million reflecting strong revenue growth to a subset of platform users.
As the MiFID II requirements unfold in both TriOptima and Traiana.
Trading operating profit increased over the coming months, this is likely to be a further catalyst to by 1% reflecting an increase in investment in new products and a increase the transition to electronic trading.
reduction in revenue from higher margin products.
38 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions TriOptima TriOptima, through triReduce and triResolve, is a leader in risk mitigation solutions for OTC derivatives, primarily through the elimination and reconciliation of outstanding transactions.
It continues to benefit from the strategic alignment of its offerings with the G20 policy objectives of transparency and risk reduction in the financial system.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue increased by 34% on a constant currency basis and by 24% on a reported basis to 67 million 2013 14 54 million driven by increased participation in triReduce portfolio compression cycles and the uptake of the portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve.
During the year triReduce terminated $150 trillion of gross notional outstanding 2013 14 $112 trillion.
The more stringent leverage ratio included within the Basel III rules continues to drive demand from banks for the triReduce compression service.
Since its launch in 2003, triReduce has eliminated more than $609 trillion in total notional volume from the OTC derivatives market for more than 251 legal entities, including both bank and non-bank institutions.
triReduce is working with multiple clearing houses to facilitate portfolio compression for cleared trades.
In December, triReduce announced that it had completed the first compression cycle for Peter Weibel Japanese yen interest rates swaps at the Japanese Securities Chief Executive Officer, Clearing Corporation and, in March 2015, announced that it had triReduce entered into an agreement with the CME to offer multilateral compression services.
triReduce continues to offer new services, including cross-currency swaps, in which it has already successfully run compression cycles in currencies such as the Mexican peso, the South African rand and the Turkish lira.
triReduce recently announced plans to collaborate with CLS to deliver an FX forward compression service.
Strong demand for triResolve continues to be driven by the introduction of regulatory requirements for regular reconciliation of derivative portfolios.
The number of customers using the triResolve TriOptima, through triReduce and service has increased from 987 during 2013 14 to more than 1,380 who participate in 330,000 party-to-party reconciliations triResolve, is the market leader in each month 2013 14 283,000. triResolve recently announced risk mitigation solutions for OTC its first customer in Taiwan as market participants in the Asia Pacific region have begun to reconcile regularly to accommodate derivatives, primarily through the their US and European counterparties.
A further offering born elimination and reconciliation of out of the new rules is repository reconciliation where triResolve supports interfaces to both European and US trade repositories.
triCalculate, the counterparty credit risk analytics service based on an innovative new methodology, is now in its pilot phase and is expected to go into commercial launch in 2015 16.
New regulatory requirements under the Basel III framework will introduce the need for further new products.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 39 Strategic report Results for 2014 15 continued Post Trade Risk and Information continued Traiana ICAP Information Services Traiana operates the leading market infrastructure for pre and post IIS delivers independent data solutions to financial market trade risk management and post trade processing across multiple participants, generating subscription-based fees from a suite of asset classes.
Its robust and proven product suite automates trade products and services.
ICAP Indices charges licence fees based processing across the life cycle for FX, cash equities, equity swaps, on financial instruments linked to proprietary indices as well as futures, OTC derivatives and fixed income.
Traianas Harmony licensing other index administrators for the use of ICAP data in network connects more than 750 global banks, broker dealers, their indices.
buy side firms and trading platforms.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue increased by 1% on a constant currency basis and marginally decreased on a reported For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue increased by 10% on a constant currency basis and by 11% on a reported basis to basis to 69 million 2013 14 70 million.
The IIS product offering and development strategy have expanded to meet the 53 million 2013 14 47 million.
The increase is primarily attributable to subscription-based revenue in products such as evolution in market demand.
IIS has continued to broaden its distribution options based on customer demand.
CreditLink, the real-time platform for pre and post trade certainty of clearing and cross-asset regulatory reporting, specifically CCP IIS has expanded its offering within its interest rate derivatives Connect and Trade Reporting.
The Harmony platform saw a suite, most recently with the launch of real-time, end of day and decline in the number of FX transactions processed as a result historical tick data services.
IIS continues to leverage its collaborative of low FX volatility during the first half of the year.
relationships with third party data, analytics and technology providers While FX remains its largest revenue segment, Traiana continues to improve its offerings, expand its customer base and enter new to innovate, grow and diversify its business into other asset classes, markets.
For example, its partnership with industry specialists delivering network based solutions for all financial market Prism Valuations widens the addressable market for IISs services.
participants, while also continuing to innovate in FX.
There has been Other Post Trade Risk and Information investments a focus on investment in real-time credit management and allocation ICAPs Post Trade Risk and Information division invests in new systems and the expansion of regulatory reporting into multiple companies developing innovative technology-led offerings via jurisdictions.
Regulatory approval was recently received from three Euclid Opportunities.
Euclid identifies and provides investment separate regulatory bodies and three pan-European clearing to emerging financial technology firms providing new platforms, houses for the launch of Equity CCP Connect, a clearing service business models and technologies that have the potential to drive which provides banks with immediate expense and risk reduction efficiency, transparency and scale across the post transaction through the netting and clearing of OTC equity transactions.
Example investments are Duco, a rapidly growing Reset reconciliation on-demand provider, OpenGamma, an award winning Reset is a provider of services that reduce the basis risk within risk analytics provider, and Enso Financial, a portfolio analytics portfolios from fixings in the interest rate, FX and inflation provider to asset managers and hedge funds.
Further investments derivatives and bonds markets.
Basis risk results from the structure are anticipated in the forthcoming financial year.
of the instruments traded and unintended mismatches of exposure over time.
Resets revenue is largely correlated to the movement in both actual and forecast short-term interest rates.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue decreased by 2% on a constant currency basis and by 5% on a reported basis to 39 million 2014 15 41 million.
Minimal interest rate volatility and flat short-term yield curves continued to constrain activity levels.
Reset remains well positioned to benefit from a return to normalised levels of interest rate volatility.
40 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Global Broking Rates 2014 2015 m Change The rates business comprises interest rate derivatives, government Revenue by asset class m restated % bonds, repos and financial futures.
Rate products contribute the Rates 269 318 15 largest share of Global Brokings revenue 34% of which interest rate derivatives represent the most significant component.
For the Commodities 148 169 12 year ended 31 March 2015, revenue decreased by 15% on a Emerging markets 132 150 12 reported basis.
Equities 103 113 8 The enduring low interest rate environment and bank customers FX and money markets 74 78 5 reduced risk appetite remains a headwind for trading activity in addition to ongoing pressure on brokerage.
In the second half of Credit 63 73 14 the year, however, the macroeconomic environment in Europe Total reported 789 901 12 benefited from the introduction of quantitative easing resulting in constant currency 885 11 lower euro rates.
This development spurred an unprecedented level of bond issuance and related hedging activity in the swaps markets.
The trend to execute on electronic platforms impacted some of Trading operating profit 62 87 29 the desks as activity in the off-the-run US Treasuries migrated to Trading operating profit BrokerTec and US swaps to i-Swap.
The hybrid matching platform margin 8% 10% 2ppt has continued its success and is fully supported by the brokers, ensuring that ICAP maintains its top position in the volume matching market.
During the course of the year a review of the Global Broking provides services to wholesale markets across a existing global financial futures business was concluded, and this wide range of geographies and asset classes.
ICAPs 1,571 brokers, business now operates on a streamlined, execution only, regional leveraging their deep customer relationships, help identify potential model which is better suited to serve ICAPs customers trading interest, access liquidity and facilitate price discovery in a requirements.
vast array of financial instruments.
Global Brokings revenue by asset class for the year ended 31 March 2015 is set out above.
Commodities The commodities business comprises energy including electricity, During the course of the year, the trading performance of Global crude oil, refined products, natural gas, coal, and alternative fuels, Broking was impacted by a combination of structural and cyclical environmental markets, shipping, metals, agriculture and soft factors.
Bank deleveraging, in response to stricter regulatory capital commodities.
requirements, constrained the trading activity of ICAPs customers.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue decreased by This was partly offset in the second half of the year by the 12% on a reported basis, with the largest decreases coming from European quantitative easing announcements, speculation on the US natural gas and electricity.
Range bound natural gas prices timing of a US interest rate rise, the dramatic fall in oil prices and continued to drift lower as supply continued to outstrip demand, the ripple effect of various European general elections which had which meant less volatile electricity prices, both of which provided increased volatility.
A volatile oil price, however, resulted in Against this market backdrop ICAP undertook a fundamental a positive performance despite the strengthening US dollar creating review of the business evaluating the current contributions and currency headwinds for commodity prices.
As part of the Group future prospects by desk and location.
As a result broker headcount restructuring process, ICAP withdrew from the LME metals reduced by approximately 500 brokers to 1,571.
In addition, broker business, streamlined the carbon business and scaled back the compensation continues to be adjusted in order to enhance the alternative fuels desk.
variable nature of broker costs.
This resulted in annualised cost The shipping business produced revenue in line with the previous savings of 70 million net of revenue loss.
The focus in 2015 16 will be around the development of our people, complemented by year as improvements in tanker markets offset the adverse impact of low dry rates.
On 1 April 2015, ICAPs shipping business and the integrated smart use of technology, a key tool to growing our market share.
Howe Robinson Group Pte Ltd, the shipbroking group, formed a new venture, Howe Robinson Partners, which has commenced For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue decreased by 11% trading.
ICAP has taken a 35% shareholding in the new venture.
on a constant currency basis and by 12% on a reported basis to 789 million 2013 14 901 million.
This reflects a year-onyear decline of 15% in the first half of the year followed by a 6% decline in the second half of the year.
Trading operating profit reduced by 29% to 62 million resulting in a modest reduction in the overall operating profit margin to 8%.
The trading operating profit margin improved to 12% in the second half of the year compared to 4% in the first half.
The decline in revenue was partially offset by cost savings arising from the ongoing cost reduction programme outlined above.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 41 Strategic report Results for 2014 15 continued Global Broking continued Emerging markets FX and money markets ICAP is active in emerging markets across Asia Pacific, Latin The FX and money markets business comprises spot, forwards America, Central and Eastern Europe and Africa.
Emerging market and cash products.
For the year ended 31 March 2015 revenue revenue includes domestic activity in local markets and crossfell by 5% on a reported basis.
After a period of low exchange rate border activity in globally traded emerging market money and volatility in the first half of the year, central banks actions and interest rate products.
geopolitical developments drove increased volatility and trading activity in FX markets.
Cash products performed well, especially For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue decreased by 12% in the Americas, as customers used the product to manage on a reported basis.
The majority of the reduction came in the short-term funding requirements.
first half with the second half revenue 2% above that recorded in the second half of 2013 14.
The return of volatility relating to Credit The credit business comprises corporate bonds and credit geopolitical factors, a falling oil price as well as some specific local factors helped to improve performance in the second half of the derivatives, and contributes the smallest share of Global Brokings revenue 8%.
The credit business has been restructured and year, especially on the Asian desks.
NDF volumes have grown on the back of the implementation of matching sessions as well as product offerings have been streamlined, with 13 desk closures and the reduction of ICAPs stake in the First Brokers business market driven increases.
Liberalisation of the renminbi as a settlement currency continues to drive growth in related products.
Equities Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2015 is 14% below the prior The equities business principally comprises equity derivatives.
The remaining business benefited from For the year ended 31 March 2015, revenue decreased by 8% a pick up in recent bond issuance following Eurozone quantitative as a number of bank customers downsized their desks, restricted easing as participants look to lock in low funding costs.
In January balance sheets and internalised trades.
During the second half of 2015, Scrapbook was launched, an anonymous, session-based 2014 15 macroeconomic developments in the Eurozone contributed e-solution for the corporate bond market.
Accessed via ICAPs to an uptick in trading activity.
There has been a steady flow of e-Commerce portal, Scrapbook helps corporate bond traders small boutique hedge funds replacing the bank flow.
identify opportunities and manage their positions more efficiently.
42 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Rate products contribute to the largest share of Global Brokings revenue 34% Richard Bigwood of which interest rate Executive derivatives represent the Managing Director, most significant component.
London Rates, and Global Managing Director, IRS ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 43 Strategic report Results for 2014 15 continued Maintained dividend reflecting strong cash conversion Trading profit before tax Tax on trading profit The results for 2014 15 section of the strategic report pages The Groups tax charge of 44 million on trading profit before tax 35 to 47 focus on the Groups divisional revenue and trading represents an effective tax rate ETR of 19% 2013 14 22%, operating profit as management plans and reviews the financial as shown in the chart below.
The ETR primarily reflects the various performance of the business using trading results that exclude statutory tax rates applied to taxable profits in territories in which acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items see the basis the Group operates.
19% 2015 We choose to focus on trading profit as we believe that it provides a clearer view of business performance and in particular is 22% 2014 expected to convert fully into cash over the medium term.
26% 2013 On page 45, we provide a reconciliation between the Groups trading profit for the year and the reported Group profit.
The trading ETR is three percentage points lower this year, driven by Year ended a decrease in the UK statutory tax rate from 22% to 21% and certain Year ended 31 March 31 March 2014 one-off prior year adjustments.
In the absence of one-off prior year 2015 m adjustments, the underlying ETR is in the range of 23% to 25%.
m restated The Group manages its tax affairs in accordance with its tax Trading operating profit 252 290 strategy.
The tax strategy was presented to the Audit Committee Net finance costs 31 27 during the year see the Audit Committee report in the Share of profit of joint ventures after tax 4 4 Governance section on pages 60 to 62.
Share of profit of associates after tax 4 4 Trading EPS and dividend Trading profit before tax 229 271 Trading EPS basic is calculated based on the trading profit for the year.
Tax 44 59 We believe that trading EPS basic is the most appropriate EPS Trading profit for the year 185 212 measurement ratio for the Group as this most closely reflects the ongoing generation of cash attributable to shareholders and in turn The Groups 252 million trading operating profit 2013 14 the Groups ability to fund sustainable dividends.
In line with this, 290 million converted to a trading profit before tax of the Remuneration Committee considers trading EPS basic in 229 million 2013 14 271 million after deducting net its review of management performance and uses that metric finance costs of 31 million 2013 14 27 million and recording in the remuneration of the executive directors.
A reconciliation a share of profit of joint ventures and associates after tax of between trading EPS basic and the reported EPS basic is 8 million 2013 14 8 million.
presented in note 5 to the financial statements.
Trading net finance costs were 4 million higher than the prior year.
Year ended Year ended Interest payable and similar charges were 3 million lower this year, 31 March 31 March primarily benefiting from the lower charges on the new eurobond.
2015 2014 pence pence Excluding the adverse effect from the double running of the bonds in 2014 15, the annualised savings in finance costs from the new Trading EPS basic 28.7 33.2 eurobond will be 6 million.
The double running of the bonds until Full-year dividend per share 22.0 22.0 July 2014 also resulted in a 1 million increase in interest income.
The 4 million benefit to 2014 15 trading net finance costs from The Group reported a trading EPS of 28.7p per share, a decrease lower charges and higher interest income was more than offset as of 14% on the prior year.
This reflects a 15% decrease in the no dividends were received from the available-for-sale investments trading profit before tax, which was partially offset by a three in the current year 2013 14 3 million.
Additionally, the prior percentage point reduction in the ETR.
year included certain one-off credits of 5 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per share, Movements in exchange rates had a 32 million adverse impact reflecting strong cash generation and the boards confidence in on year-on-year revenue and a 14 million adverse impact on the medium term prospects for the business.
If approved, the trading profit before tax.
These impacts were primarily driven final dividend will be paid on 24 July 2015 to shareholders on the by the strengthening of the US dollar against sterling.
register at the close of business on 3 July 2015.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 2 July 2015.
44 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions The full-year dividend will be 22.0p 2013 14 22.0p including Net payments in respect of interest and tax have decreased by the payment of the 6.6p interim dividend on 6 February 2015.
34 million to 66 million, primarily driven by timing differences The full-year dividend per share is covered 1.3 times 2013 14 related to tax payments.
Interest and tax paid of 66 million 1.5 times by trading EPS of 28.7p.
2013 14 100 million includes 35 million 2013 14 31 million of net interest and 31 million 2013 14 Free cash flow 69 million of tax.
Net interest payments are 4 million higher Year ended this year due to the double running of eurobonds up to July 2014.
Year ended 31 March 31 March 2014 Net payments in relation to tax benefited from a combination of 2015 m a lower tax charge in the current year and tax refunds received m restated relating to certain overpayments in the prior year.
Cash generated from operating activities 313 314 Application of free cash flow Interest and tax 66 100 Cash flow from trading activities of 247 million 2013 14 Cash flow from trading activities 247 214 214 million was used to pay 141 million in dividends to Capital expenditure 57 67 shareholders as the Group continues to maintain strong dividend payments.
To propel future growth, 57 million was invested Dividends from associates, joint ventures primarily in technology assets and 36 million was invested to and investments 6 12 successfully complete the Groups restructuring programme.
Trading free cash flow 196 159 Additionally, a significant amount of cash spend on technology during Free cash flow conversion 106% 75% the year was directly charged to the income statement.
ICAPs before exceptional items market leading position has been achieved and maintained through substantial investment over many years in technology and marketICAP is cash generative and we continue to expect free cash flow user infrastructure.
ICAP is committed to maintaining a high level of and post tax trading profit to converge over the medium term.
Investment in technology assets, especially in growth areas in Free cash flow conversion for the year was 106% 2013 14 75% Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information, over the of the Groups trading profit.
The 31 percentage point improvement coming years as we continue our drive to improve and widen our is primarily due to timing differences on working capital and tax product offerings to our customers.
The 75% cash conversion in 2013 14 was unusually low as a result of unfavourable timing differences from working capital and significant higher capital expenditure in that year compared with depreciation and amortisation charges recorded.
Cash generated from operating activities before exceptional items of 313 million was marginally down on the prior year, as a 38 million decrease in trading operating profit in the year was offset by the reversal of an adverse timing difference in working capital movements in the prior year.
For further information, see note 11 to the financial statements.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 45 Strategic report Results for 2014 15 continued Profit for the year Balance sheet highlights Year ended Year ended As at 31 March 31 March As at 31 March 2015 2014 31 March 2014 m m 2015 m m restated Trading profit for the year 185 212 Net assets Acquisition and disposal costs after tax 44 48 Intangible assets arising on consolidation 930 933 Exceptional items after tax 57 64 Cash and cash equivalents 481 698 Profit for the year 84 100 Borrowings 549 787 Acquisition and disposal costs Other net assets 156 139 Acquisition and disposal costs in the year were 59 million Total net assets 1,018 983 2013 14 74 million before a tax credit of 15 million 2013 14 26 million.
The acquisition and disposal costs in The Groups net assets as at 31 March 2015 were 35 million the year primarily represent amortisation of acquired intangibles.
higher at 1,018 million 31 March 2014 983 million.
The See notes 3 and 14 to the financial statements for a more detailed retained deficit in the year of 57 million net of 141 million breakdown of the Groups acquisition and disposal costs.
dividend payments was offset by a 91 million favourable FX movement, principally as a result of a stronger US dollar on the The 15 million decrease in acquisition and disposal costs reflects net assets, including goodwill, on our US businesses.
an 11 million impairment charge recorded in 2013 14.
There was no impairment charge recorded in 2014 15.
The significant balance sheet line items, including intangible assets arising on consolidation, cash and cash equivalents and borrowings Exceptional items are discussed below.
The Group discloses separately items that are non-recurring and material in terms of both size and nature.
This allows appropriate Intangible assets arising on consolidation visibility of these items and reflects how information is reviewed by management.
It allows focus on the Groups trading performance, m as well as due attention specifically on the exceptional matters.
Electronic Markets 523 For the year to 31 March 2015 exceptional items were 75 million Post Trade Risk and Information 318 2013 14 76 million before a tax credit of 18 million Global Broking 89 2013 14 12 million.
Total 930 The Group has now completed its restructuring programme.
The Group recorded a 60 million charge during the year to implement the restructuring programme, of which 24 million is non-cash expense, comprising property related provisions and other accruals.
The Groups goodwill and other intangible assets arising from consolidation as at 31 March 2015 was 930 million 2013 14 The remaining 15 million relates to regulatory matters including 933 million, with 90% of the balance represented by the a 11 million provision relating to a 14.9 million fine imposed by Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information divisions.
the European Commission for alleged competition violations in relation to yen Libor, in respect of the same underlying matters that Other intangible assets were amortised by 55 million 2013 14 ICAP Europe Limited, a subsidiary of ICAPs Global Broking division, 64 million during the year.
Additionally, 15 million of goodwill and settled with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the US other intangible assets were transferred to disposal group as the sale Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC in September of the Groups shipbroking business was classified as held for sale as 2013.
ICAP has appealed and is seeking a full annulment of the at 31 March 2015, see note 10 to the financial statements.
This 70 million combined decrease was partially offset by a For further information, see note 4 to the financial statements.
67 million favourable movement in FX.
Strengthening of the US dollar resulted in an increase of 76 million in the balance during the year, which was partially offset by a 9 million decrease in euro-denominated assets resulting from the weakening of the euro against sterling in the year.
These currencies represented 77% of the Groups goodwill and other intangibles.
46 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions The board reviewed the Groups goodwill and other intangibles this basis.
The effect of the waiver is to exclude goodwill and other assets arising on consolidation for impairment as at 31 March intangibles from the calculation and, in doing so, allows the Group to 2015 and concluded that there was no impairment at that date.
undertake acquisitions using debt rather than equity finance.
In the event that the waiver was not renewed, applying a consolidated The review was based on certain estimates and assumptions, approach to credit and market risks would give an incremental including future cash flow projections and discount rates.
The Audit regulatory capital requirement of approximately 0.5 billion which, Committee challenged managements judgements and estimates in line with recent precedent, would most likely be eliminated through and has approved the appropriateness of management assumptions.
See the Audit Committee section in the Governance Report on page 61 and note 14 to the financial statements.
ICAP operates 45 regulated subsidiaries globally.
Each is locally capitalised and regulated.
Together these entities hold 430 million Liquidity and funding of cash including restricted funds of which 357 million 2013 14 The Groups overall funding position as at 31 March 2015 375 million is held by the Global Broking businesses.
Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information hold 55 million 2013 14 45 million and 18 million 2013 14 17 million The gross debt position including overdrafts of 33 million 2013 14 1 million, net of fees, decreased by 238 million respectively.
to 549 million as at 31 March 2015 as the Group repaid 300 million of senior notes in July 2014, with the repayment Net debt m financed by the issuance of a 350 million bond in March 2014.
150 The $193 million equivalent to 130 million of guaranteed 196 subordinated loan notes is due in June 2015.
As at 31 March 2015, 100 the Group had committed undrawn headroom under its core credit facilities of 425 million 2013 14 425 million.
50 In December 2014, as part of a peer review with another 0 interdealer broker, Moodys downgraded the Groups long-term issuer default rating on senior debt from Baa2 negative to Baa3 negative, reflecting its opinion on pressure facing the interdealer 50 141 14 brokers.
The rating by Fitch remained unchanged at BBB stable.
68 100 48 89 Cash 150 m 31 March Trading Dividends Exceptional FX 31 March Cash held in regulated trading entities 430 2014 free paid to items 2015 restated cash ow shareholders Cash held in unregulated entities 49 Cash held in central treasury Net debt decreased by 21 million in the year to 68 million as at function 45 31 March 2015.
The decrease in net debt was principally driven by Total 524 the 106% free cash flow conversion in the year.
After payments of 141 million in dividends to shareholders and 48 million in exceptional payments, there was an excess of 7 million in trading free cash flow.
The net debt position also benefited from a Cash held by segment 14 million favourable movement in FX, principally in eurodenominated debt.
m Net debt of 68 million excludes Groups restricted funds of Electronic Markets 68 43 million as at 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 39 million.
Post Trade Risk and Information 30 Global Broking 381 Total 479 Strategic report approval The strategic report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: Cash includes cash and cash equivalents of 481 million and 43 million of restricted funds.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Regulatory capital 19 May 2015 ICAP operates its business under an investment firm waiver which currently runs until April 2016.
The waiver modifies the basis on which regulatory capital is calculated for the Group and, at 31 March 2015, ICAP had 0.7 billion 2013 14 0.9 billion of headroom on ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 47
