AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Jim Newman, Chairman of During the year, the Audit Committee has maintained its the Audit Committee, gives focus on the integrity of financial reporting and supported the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to the his review of the committees Groups financial reporting requirements, through reviewing activities during the the results and formal financial announcements.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report financial year.
and other externally reported financial information remains with the Board.
The committee again considered the appropriateness of the design and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and governance over a wide range of regulatory and compliance-related matters.
The committee also reviewed the quality of the external audit process, including the identified audit risks, the audit plan and reports from the Companys auditor.
In the prior year, as part of its overall consideration of the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function, the committee received both an internal review against best practice guidance and commissioned an External Quality Assessment EQA performed by an independent external firm.
The External Quality Assessment concluded that the Internal Audit Charter, policies and procedures generally conforms to the IIA Standards and the Code of Ethics.
This is the highest rating achievable in accordance with the IIA Standards.
The review identified potential improvements which the committee considered the detail of which is discussed later in the Internal Audit section.
In relation to financial reporting the committees primary responsibilities are to review the appropriateness of the half-year and annual financial statements.
Matters considered include the impact and disclosure of the Swiss franc related losses, the prior year restatements required following the mandatory adoption of and consequential changes to accounting policy required by IFRIC 21 and the primary areas of judgement each of which are detailed later in this report.
The year ended 31 May 2015 is the final year that the Groups current audit partner will provide an opinion on the Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements as the mandatory rotation time limit of five years has been reached.
For the financial year ending 31 May 2016 the Group will therefore have a new audit partner from .
The Audit Committee Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer have worked with  in order to ensure an effective transition.
The Audit Committees terms of reference, which were amended in the prior year to reflect both the revised Corporate Governance Code and the establishment of the Board Risk Committee, are summarised below and can be found in full on the corporate website iggroup.
| 94 ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE In summary, the Audit Committees terms of reference are to: SCHEDULED MEETINGS SCHEDULED Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements, ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS including Annual and Interim Reports, preliminary results ATTEND ATTENDED announcements and any other formal announcements Chairman of the Audit Committee relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant reporting issues and judgements which they contain Martin Jackson 1 1 Provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report, Jim Newman 4 4 taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Independent Non-Executive Directors provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance Roger Yates 4 3 Review the continuing appropriateness of the Groups Sam Tymms 4 4 accounting policies Andy Green 4 4 Review the clarity of disclosures, ensuring the Group has Martin Jackson stepped down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on made appropriate estimates and judgements in preparing 16October 2014 all material information presented in the Annual Report Roger Yates was unable to attend a rescheduled meeting Andy Green attended by invitation Review an annual report from the Board Risk Committee on the Companys internal controls and Risk AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Management Framework AND ATTENDANCE Ensure there are suitable whistle-blowing arrangements for All Audit Committee members are independent Nonemployees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible Executive Directors who can draw on considerable, recent wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters financial services experience.
Review an assessment of the control environment, via The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of internal audit reports, and progress on implementing both Finance, Head of Internal Audit, Company Secretary and the internal and external audit recommendations external auditors attend the Audit Committee by invitation Monitor and review the internal audit functions appropriate to the matters under consideration.
Other effectiveness in the overall context of the Groups internal Directors and representatives from the finance function and controls and risk-management systems other areas of the business attend the Audit Committee Consider and approve the internal audit functions remit, as necessary.
ensure it has adequate resources and appropriate access to The committee normally meets four times a year and as information, and that it has adequate standing and is free and when required.
Separately, members of the committee from management or other restrictions also meet privately with the Head of Internal Audit and the Review and assess the internal audit plan external auditors to focus on respective areas of responsibility Consider and make recommendations to the Board on and to discuss any potential requirements for support from appointing, reappointing and removing the Companys the committee to address any issues arising.
external auditors, which are subject to shareholder approval Oversee the relationship with the external auditors, MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE including approving the audit fee, non-audit fees and FINANCIAL YEAR non-audit services policy, as well as assessing annually the Following the establishment of the Board Risk Committee external auditors independence and objectivity and the during the prior year, responsibility for compliance, conduct effectiveness of the audit process risk, client money and fraud was passed to the Board Review the annual audit plan and the findings of the Risk Committee.
external auditors, including a discussion on major areas of audit focus, accounting and audit judgements and any In addition to discharging its responsibilities as described errors identified during the audit above, the committee focused on a number of key areas.
The following summary of activities includes all areas covered by After each committee meeting, make a formal report to the Audit Committee during the financial year.
the Board in which the Chairman of the Audit Committee describes the proceedings The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each committee meeting, ensuring that each item in the terms of reference is covered at least once in the financial year, and more frequently if required.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 95 AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED IFRIC 21 As disclosed in note 41 to the Financial Statements IFRIC 21 is mandatory for the Groups 31 May 2015 year-end.
IFRIC 21 gives guidance as the obligating event that gives rise to the liability to pay a levy, in the case of the Group this is applicable to the United Kingdoms Financial Services Compensation Scheme levy FSCS levy at 1 April each year.
This interpretation is retrospective and accordingly requires restatement of the comparative information.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The committee has received a paper from management setting out the technical accounting analysis, the impact of In relation to financial reporting, the primary role of the the guidance on the Groups recognition of the FSCS levy and committee is to work with management and the external the consequential restatement of the prior year information.
auditors in reviewing the appropriateness of the half-year and The Groups auditor also provided commentary on this matter annual financial statements.
The committee discharged its to the committee.
responsibilities in this area through concentrating on, among other matters: Goodwill In accordance with accounting standards the Group is Assessing the quality and acceptability of accounting required to review any goodwill balances for impairment and policies and practices consider the underlying assumptions involved in calculating Ensuring disclosures are clear and compliant with financial the value-in-use of separate parts of the business known as reporting standards and relevant financial and governance cash-generating units CGUs.
The committee observed that reporting requirements a significant proportion of the Groups goodwill relates to Considering material areas in which significant judgements the UK, Australian and South African CGUs, for which both have been applied or there has been discussion with the the single-year profit for the year ended 31 May 2015 and external auditors that included in the Board-approved budget for the year Reviewing all formal financial announcements and financial ending 31 May 2016 are greater than the carrying value of the statements prior to issuance associated goodwill.
Accordingly, the goodwill impairment Evaluating whether the Annual Report and Accounts, reviews of these CGUs are not considered to contain material taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable or significant judgements.
and provide the information necessary for shareholders Therefore the key judgement in terms of goodwill to assess the Companys performance, business model impairment reviews relates to the underlying assumptions and strategy used in calculating the US CGUs value-in-use.
The US CGU To aid this review, the committee has considered reports from comprises both the Nadex exchange and the associated the Chief Financial Officer and his team.
It has also received market-making business the Nadex business as well as reports from the external auditors on the outcomes of their the wider commercial use of the exchange technology half-year review and annual audit.
The Nadex business remains in the early stages of development and while significant progress The committee considered and addressed the following has been made during the year, it has continued to be disclosure or primary areas of judgement in relation to the loss-making.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee received a Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2015: paper from management setting out the financial forecasts Swiss franc related losses for both the Nadex exchange business and the platform The committee has received a paper from management savings associated with the wider use of the exchange setting out the rationale for the disclosures made in the technology within the Group.
This paper set out the key Annual Report and financial statements associated with assumptions used in the impairment review and an associated the losses incurred as a direct impact of the Swiss National sensitivity analysis.
Bank actions on the 15 January 2015.
The ultimate impact The committee also considered the development of the on the Groups profit before taxation is dependent on the Nadex business through the year ended 31 May 2015.
This Groups ability to recover the remaining outstanding debt, included advances in the platform and product offering, the recovery of which is significantly dependent on a small increased levels of client acquisition and volumes traded, number of individually large debtors.
Managements paper the additional liquidity resulting from the new marketincluded an analysis of the gross debt, the recoveries made as maker to the exchange and the continued commitment by at 31 May 2015 and the provision for bad and doubtful debts management to ensure the US business has the investment recorded in the financial statements.
The Groups auditor also it needs to reach profitability.
The committee also reviewed provided commentary on this matter to the committee.
detailed financial forecasts and assumptions.
In addition, the Groups auditor provided commentary on the matter to the committee.
| 96 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Useful economic life of intangible fixed assets Oversight of the external audit The Group is required to make judgements regarding the The effectiveness of the external audit process depends useful economic life and carrying value of all its acquired upon appropriately identifying risks at the start of the audit and internally developed software and licences and domain cycle, and consequently the committee receives a detailed names.
During the year, the Group continued to invest in the audit plan from the auditor, on an annual basis, identifying technology platform, domain names and industry-specific its assessment of the key audit risks.
International audit generic top-level domains and to consolidate the online standards require that the risk of override of internal controls presence around the IG.
As at 31 May 2015, the is assumed to be a significant audit risk.
In the auditors Group had 6.1 million of domain assets in the Group balance assessment, the primary audit risk identified to the Financial sheet that are amortised over a ten-year useful economic Statements concerned management override of internal life.
As there is a risk of obsolescence for such assets, the controls, including both information technology as well as committee reviewed a report from management detailing the manual controls.
The work performed in this area by the audit financially significant intangible assets, the rationale for their firm is detailed in its audit opinion.
useful economic life, their continued use within the business The risk associated with information technology relates to and their remaining carrying value.
super-user access to certain legacy areas of the Groups Corporation tax trading system.
The committee reviewed reports from Calculating the Groups current corporation tax charge management and internal audit on the design, operation and involves a degree of estimation and judgement, as the tax ongoing monitoring of a number of key controls designed treatment of certain items cannot be finally determined until to mitigate the risks associated with the super-user access.
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
Additionally, the committee assessed whether the audit The Group holds tax provisions in respect of the potential tax process addressed these matters effectively through the liability that may arise on these unresolved items.
However, reporting received from the auditor during the audit cycle.
the amount ultimately payable may be materially lower than Management considers the risk in this area to have been the amount accrued, and could therefore improve the Groups appropriately managed.
The committee concurs with this overall profitability and cash flows in future periods.
The committee has also considered the auditors report committee reviewed a report from management that detailed on the potential override of internal controls, including the the assumptions made in calculating the Groups current results of additional substantive audit procedures and manual corporation tax charge and provisions.
The Groups auditor journal testing undertaken.
also provided commentary on this matter to the committee.
The auditors also assessed counterparty credit risk to be EXTERNAL AUDIT an elevated audit risk, both in terms of financial institution The committee is responsible for making recommendations credit risk and also client credit risk.
This later element being on the appointment, reappointment and removal of external particularly highlighted by the Swiss franc related debtors auditors, and for assessing and agreeing the fees payable realised during the year.
to the Companys auditor both audit and non-audit fees.
With regards to financial institution credit risk the committee The committee is also responsible for reviewing the audit has reviewed a paper from management and additionally the plans and reports from the external auditors.
The main risk disclosures within note 36 to the Financial Statements that activities undertaken in relation to the external audit are set out the control framework and policies and procedures summarised below.
for the management of credit and associated concentration Audit tendering and rotation risk by the Group.
As a key business risk to the Group the The Companys external audit was last re-tendered committee considers an appropriate control framework with in 2010, resulting in a change of external auditors to regards to financial institution credit risk, overseen by the  LLP for the financial year ended 31 Board Risk Committee has been established.
In line with the requirement to rotate the senior committee assessed whether the audit process addressed statutory auditor, the Companys current audit partner will these matters effectively through the reporting received from rotate after the audit of the year ended 31 May 2015 is the auditor during the audit cycle.
Both management and the complete.
Having recently conducted a full audit-firm tender audit firm consider the financial statement risk in this area to exercise, provided it remains satisfied with the external have been appropriately managed.
The committee concurs audit process, the committee anticipates that the next with this view.
formal re-tender process will be for the audit of the year With regards to client credit risk, this principally arises where ending 31 May 2021.
This is in line with the UK Corporate the client total funds deposited with the Group are insufficient Governance Code and will comply with the transitional to cover any trading losses incurred and can arise where there requirements of both the EU and the Competition and are significant and sudden movements in a market.
From a Markets Authority, subject to the final UK implementation of financial reporting viewpoint, material client credit risk only the EU requirements.
arises post client losses being incurred, as is the case with the Swiss franc related losses.
As stated earlier, the committee has | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 97 AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED policy also sets out the considerations and safeguards that are required in relation to non-audit services provided by the auditors, and the specific services the auditors are precluded from providing.
Additionally, the policy sets out certain permitted services for which the committee has pre-approved management to engage the auditors.
This approval is subject to the policies set out above, and to specified fee limits for individual engagements, as well as the reporting requirements for all non-audit services to the received a paper from management setting out an analysis committee.
There were no exceptions to this policy during of the gross debt, the recoveries made as at 31 May 2015 the year.
and the provision for bad and doubtful debts recorded in Since appointing  LLP as auditors, the financial statements.
Both management and the audit the Group has established and developed relationships firm consider the financial statement risk in this area to have with a number of independent advisory and assurance been appropriately managed.
The committee concurs with firms which provide alternatives to engaging the audit firm.
During the year,  has performed The committee also holds private meetings with the external non-audit services in accordance with the non-audit policy.
auditor through the year as an additional opportunity for The committee has monitored  to open dialogue and feedback from both the committee and ensure that under no circumstances has work been performed the auditor without management being present.
This was done by carefully Effectiveness of the external auditors assessing the nature of all non-audit work performed, Having performed a review of the external auditors during reviewing a summary of all the non-audit fees paid during the year, the committee is satisfied with their effectiveness.
the year, evaluating the non-audit policy and ensuring that The committee noted that the Companys current audit appropriate safeguards were in place for each non-audit partner will rotate after the audit for the year ended engagement.
The committee also requested and received an 31May2015 is complete, and that the replacement partner explanation from  of its own in-house and handover process remain key to the external auditors independence process.
During the year, non-audit fees of 0.9 million were paid Audit and audit-related fees to  as discussed in note 6 to Details of the Groups audit and audit-related fees for the year the financial statements.
These principally related to tax ended 31 May 2015 are disclosed in note 6 to the Financial compliance and filing: corporate, structuring and sales-related Statements.
Audit-related fees include the statutory audit of tax advice: regulatory advice and strategic advice to the the Group and its subsidiaries, as well as audits required due board.
All contracts for non-audit services in excess of to the regulated nature of our business.
Also included therein 0.1 million require committee approval.
Below this level, are fees associated with the ISAE 3000 controls opinion the Chairman of the Audit Committee is notified of new relating to the Groups processes and controls over client instructions for the delivery of non-audit services.
other than the auditors have been engaged, following a competitive tender process for the provision of a wide During the year, the committee reviewed and approved a range of non-audit services, including transfer pricing, tax recommendation from management on the Companys audit advisory services related to new business offerings and and audit-related fees.
changes to regulation, tax compliance services, risk and Non-audit fees regulatory advice.
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the INTERNAL AUDIT external auditors from becoming compromised, the The internal audit function provided the committee with committee has a formal policy governing the engagement a summary report including internal audit reports and of the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
This recommendations in line with the internal audit plan for year, the committee again reviewed the Groups policy the financial year.
In addition, in the light of potential governing non-audit work, details of which are provided on improvements highlighted by the EQA, the function the corporate website.
provided additional updates on specific areas throughout The policy makes an important distinction between auditthe year.
The main areas of focus have been regulatory and related services and all other non-audit services.
The committee monitored progress on the implementation of the audit recommendations raised The underlying rationale for this is because a number of by the internal audit function, and the effectiveness of the audit-related services are specifically required of the Groups coordination between internal and external audit.
auditors, through regulatory, legislative or contractual obligations in addition to the statutory audit services.
The | 98 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME The committee reviewed the three-year rolling risk-based The following chart highlights how the committee spent its internal audit plan including improvements as a result of the time during the year ended 31 May 2015.
EQA and considered the resources and skills allocated to the internal audit function in order to execute the plan.
The plan consists of various different types of audit which require different skills in order to provide adequate coverage across Statutory Reporting the Group.
Internal Audit Matters In the current year, internal audit resource was further Risks and Controls supplemented with functional specialism from external advisory firms, and a Regulatory Internal Audit Manager External Audit Matters was recruited to provide more focus on regulatory risk.
Other This in-house specialism is in addition to the IT Internal Audit Manager who focuses on internal audits of the IT department and provides assurance over technology risks.
For the forthcoming year, the committee has again authorised investment both in internal audit resource and in external expertise.
This will enable the delivery of the planned audits with support from external specialists.
The Audit Committee considers this investment will ensure that resources remain sufficient to provide adequate coverage of the Groups risks, while retaining flexibility to address new risks as they arise over the three-year plan period.
All of the improvements from the External Quality Assessment performed by an independent external firm have now been introduced into the internal audit function to the satisfaction of the Audit Committee.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONTROLS The Groups operations are heavily dependent on information technology IT, and accordingly the committee has reviewed internal audit reports on IT controls and assessments of external penetration tests and cyber risk.
All of these have been supported or performed by external specialists.
AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS During the year, the committee undertook a questionnairebased review of its own effectiveness.
The evaluation process was externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited as part of the overall annual Board effectiveness review.
The review concluded that the committee was effective and its performance was highly rated.
For the committee to continue to perform effectively, there was the need to ensure that the balance of competencies on the committee is maintained when members depart.
In addition, the committee should continue its enhancement of the quality of the internal audit programme and its liaison with the Board Risk Committee.
Jim Newman Chairman, Audit Committee 21 July 2015 | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 99
