NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Andy Green, Chairman of It essential that the Board is well balanced in terms of the Nomination Committee, structure, skill, experience, diversity and knowledge to enable gives his review of the the Company to achieve its objectives and long-term strategy.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying committees activities during and recommending suitable candidates for appointment the financial year.
to the Board to ensure that its composition in this regard meets the Companys needs.
We maintain and implement an effective succession plan to ensure that the Board is progressively refreshed.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The committee consists of independent Non-Executive Directors and meets as necessary to discuss appointments to the Board.
The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the committee and the Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the committee.
The Chief Executive Officer also attends, but is not involved in decisions relating to his own succession.
During the year the committee met three times to consider Board composition and succession planning.
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The role and responsibilities of the committee include: Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure that they are appropriately balanced in terms of skills, knowledge diversity and experience Ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors Identifying and nominating for approval by the Board, suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise Ensuring that plans are in place for orderly succession, for appointments to the Board and to other senior management positions.
The Terms of Reference of the committee are available on the Groups website, iggroup.
ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR In October 2014, I succeeded Jonathan Davie as the Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee.
We also announced that Roger Yates will be stepping down from the Board following the AGM in October.
During the year, the committees main focus has been on the search for a candidate to replace Roger as Senior Independent Director SID and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Zygos Partnership, an executive search firm which has no other connection with the Company, was engaged following a selection process to assist with the search for a suitable candidate.
The committee prepared a candidate specification based on objective criteria setting out the knowledge, skill, experience and attributes required.
| 66 SCHEDULED MEETINGS SCHEDULED ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS ATTEND ATTENDED These include among others: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Jonathan Davie 1 1 Having served on the board of a listed company either as an Andy Green 3 3 executive or a Non-Executive Director, Having knowledge and experience of UK governance Independent Non-Executive Directors requirements and a good understanding of the current Martin Jackson 1 1 regulatory environment: Jim Newman 3 2 Roger Yates 3 3 Having a deep insight around how the investor community operates: and Stephen Hill 3 3 Sam Tymms 3 3 Having the ability to be able to commit the time required for the role.
Jonathan Davie stepped down from the committee on 16 October 2014 Andy Green became the Chairman of the committee on 16 October 2014 From the candidate specification, a longlist of potential Martin Jackson stepped down from the committee on 16 October 2014 candidates was drawn up from which a shortlist was compiled.
Candidates on the shortlist were interviewed by me and the NOMINATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME Chief Executive following which a proposal was made to Board Composition the committee on the candidates.
Briefing reports on the shortlisted candidates were reviewed by the committee and Succession Planning the candidates were interviewed by Executive members of the Other Board and by members of the committee.
It is expected that an appointment will be made shortly.
In addition to the search for a replacement for Roger Yates, the committee also commenced the search for a Non-Executive Director with digital experience following a discussion around long-term Board composition prompted by the 2014 Board evaluation.
Russell Reynolds Associates, an was positively rated overall.
The committee, however, could executive search firm which has no other connections with the improve its performance by operating with greater formality.
Company, was engaged to assist with the search.
As with the search for a replacement SID, a candidate specification was DIVERSITY STATEMENT prepared, taking into account the desired skills, knowledge As a business, we are committed to maintaining a diverse and experience required for the role.
We also specified workforce at all levels across the Company, and more that candidates must be able to give the necessary time information on how we do this can be found in the commitment.
Russell Reynolds Associates prepared a longlist OurPeople section, on page 33. of potential candidates following which a shortlist of candidates The Directors understand the significant benefits that come was interviewed by me and the Chief Executive.
It is expected with having a diverse Board.
We recognise the importance that an appointment will be made shortly.
of gender diversity on the Board, however, we believe that Following the announcement that Tim Howkins will be retiring diversity is a wider issue and includes variations in experience, from the Board as a director and Chief Executive Officer at skills, personal attributes and background.
Nonetheless, we the 2015 AGM in October, we have commenced a search and aspire to achieve 25% female representation on the Board.
selection process for his successor.
We will report fully on this We will continue to appoint on merit, based on the skills and process in next years annual report.
experience required for membership of our Board, while During the year, the committee reviewed membership of the giving consideration to gender diversity when the committee Board Committees in light of the retirements of Jonathan reviews the Boards composition.
For appointments to the Davie and Martin Jackson.
Following the committees Board, we use executive search firms who have signed up to recommendation and with the Boards approval, I joined the the voluntary code of conduct setting out the key principles Remuneration Committee in September 2014.
In addition, of best practice in the recruitment process.
These principles Sam Tymms, Stephen Hill and myself joined the Nomination include a recommendation that search firms should consider Committee in September 2014. gender diversity and we insist on having both male and female candidates when drawing up longlists and shortlists COMMITTEE EVALUATION of candidates.
In addition to overseeing appointments to the Board, an evaluation of the performance of the committee and its members was undertaken in line with the committees Terms of Reference.
The evaluation process was externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited as part of the overall annual Andy Green Board effectiveness review.
The evaluation concluded that Chairman, Nomination Committee the committee operates effectively and its performance 21 July 2015 | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 67
