BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Stephen Hill, Chairman of the CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Board Risk Committee, gives The Board Risk Committee was formed in 2014 and, in its first his review of the committees full year of operation, has proven to be a useful resource in activities during the financial year.
providing the Board with further opportunity to review and challenge the Groups risk management framework in relation to current and potential risk exposures.
During the year, as well as the continual review of the main risk documents, including the Risk Appetite Statement, the ICAAP and the ILAA, the committee considered the impacts of the Swiss franc event and the resultant changes to our approach to managing the risks associated with such an event.
ROLE OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE The committees key responsibilities are to: Consider and recommend for approval by the Board, the Risk Appetite Statement RAS and Key Risk Indicators KRIs for the current and future strategy Monitor, review and challenge the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA.
This includes stresstesting, the liquidity and regulatory capital positions of the Group, the size of the liquidity and capital buffers, and the appropriateness of management mitigation actions Ensure rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of the Groups business and receive reports that explain the impact of identified risks and threats Ensure risk mitigation consistent with our risk appetite is in place Review the Groups major risk exposures Consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the technology infrastructure and supporting documentation in the Risk Management Framework Provide input to the Remuneration Committee on the risk implications of the remuneration policy Review the scope and nature of the work undertaken by the control functions in connection with business model and industry risks, and specifically regulatory, compliance, client money,  and conduct risks Review and approve the statements to be included in the Annual Report concerning controls and risk management Review and monitor risk-related control recommendations to ensure they are being actioned appropriately The full Terms of Reference for the committee can be found on the Companys website, iggroup.
com | | 100 100 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The committee received an environmental risk report focusing AND ATTENDANCE on risks which are outside the Companys control but could The Board Risk Committee is composed of independent have a negative impact on the business.
Non-Executive Directors and the table on the next page Such risks include political risks such as the impact of the shows the committee members during the year and their exit of the UK from the EU, and other associated regulatory attendance at committee meetings.
In addition, the committee reviewed reports from The committee is scheduled to meet four times a year the Compliance function on the departments activities and additionally as and when required.
The committees around compliance monitoring, conduct risk, money recommendations are referred to the Board and matters laundering.
The committee also received briefings on current discussed by the committee are reported to the Board at regulatory themes.
The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Global Head of Legal and Compliance, Head of Internal Audit and Deputy SCHEDULED Company Secretary all attend the Board Risk Committee by MEETINGS SCHEDULED invitation.
Other Directors, representatives from the finance ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS ATTEND ATTENDED function and other areas of the business attend the Board Risk Committee appropriate to the matter under consideration.
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR Stephen Hill 3 3 The committee met three times during the year.
To ensure Independent Non-Executive Directors the committee discharges its responsibilities appropriately, Roger Yates 3 3 an annual work plan is set around the committees Terms Sam Tymms 3 3 of Reference and was approved by the committee at Jim Newman 3 3 the start of the year.
The Company Secretary assists the Andy Green 3 3 Chairman of the committee in drafting the agenda for each committee meeting.
Andy Green attended by invitation During the year, the committee reviewed updates to the ICAAP and the ILAA, approved the scenarios and BOARD RISK COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME assumptions for internal stress testing and recommended the documents to the Board for approval.
Reporting, risks andcontrols The Swiss franc strengthened dramatically following the Governance removal of the peg by the Swiss National Bank in January ICAAP and ILAA and, as a result, IG incurred a market loss of 11.8 million and booked a provision for bad debts of 15.1 million.
The Risk Compliance and Committee reviewed how the business had responded to this ConductRisk event and, in particular, considered how the dealing, market Operational Risk and credit risk management systems and frameworks had Remuneration functioned in response to such a stress.
Risk appetite The committee was clear that the outcome was within IGs Client Money overall risk appetite, albeit at the higher end, but challenged Others management in its modelling of stress scenarios.
A number of changes were made to margins on indices and currencies as During the year, a review of the committees effectiveness and a result.
performance was performed without significant issues.
The committee also provided input to the Remuneration Committee on the risks associated with the Groups remuneration policy, paying particular attention to the design and monitoring of sales-incentive schemes.
The committee received the annual report from the Client Stephen Hill Money Committee, and also reviewed the risks and processes Chairman, Board Risk Committee around client money in relation to potential new business 21July 2015 and product developments.
The internal audit function also provided updates on the risks highlighted in its reports.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 101
