THE BOARD From left to right: Andy Green | Tim Howkins | Christopher Hill | Peter Hetherington | Roger Yates | Stephen Hill | Sam Tymms | Jim Newman ANDY GREEN | NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN | AGE: 59 Andy joined the Board as deputy chairman in June 2014 and became chairman of the Group in October 2014.
He has in-depth Board experience and knowledge of major listed companies, having served as Group Chief Executive of Logica plc and having held board roles in BT Group including the role of CEO of Group Strategy and Operations.
Andys other current roles, including Non-Executive Director of ARM Holdings plc, enable him to bring to the Board a wide perspective on technology and digital development.
Other current appointments: Andy is a Non-Executive Director of Avanti Communications Group plc.
He holds a number of other roles including chairing DockOn AG and Digital Catapult.
He is a board member of the CBI, president of UK Space, co-chairman of the Space Leadership Council and a member of the Digital Economy Council.
Committee Membership: Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
TIM HOWKINS | CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | AGE: 52 Tim was appointed Chief Executive Officer of IG in 2006, having served as the Groups Finance Director since joining the company in 1999.
Tim qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young, and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
In 1990, he was one of a group of partners and staff who left Ernst & Young to form Rees Pollock, a firm of Chartered Accountants targeted at entrepreneurial, owner-managed businesses.
He was a partner in Rees Pollock for seven years, and there developed a relationship with IG, taking responsibility for the Groups audit.
With a strong finance background and a considerable number of years in the business, in his role as our Chief Executive Tim continues to work with the Board and lead IG to develop and implement our strategy.
Tim graduated from the University of Reading with a first-class degree in Mathematics and Computer Science.
Tim will be stepping down from the Board at the AGM on 15 October 2015.
Other current appointments: Tim is a member of the Board and Executive Committee of FIA Europe, formerly known as the Futures and Options Association.
CHRISTOPHER HILL | CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER | AGE: 44 Christopher joined the IG Board in April 2011 from Travelex, a group providing cross-border payment and foreign exchange services to corporate and retail customers, where he served as Chief Financial Officer.
A Chartered Accountant, Christopher has extensive finance and accounting experience from a number of different business sectors.
He has previously held roles at VWR International, a global laboratory-supply company 2005-2007, General Electric 2000-2005 and Arthur Andersen 1992-2000.
Christopher graduated from Oxford University with a degree in Modern History and is an associate member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
PETER HETHERINGTON | CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER | AGE: 46 Peter was an officer in the Royal Navy prior to joining IG Group as a graduate trainee in 1994.
In 1999, he became Head of Financial Dealing, and in 2003 he joined the Board following his appointment as Chief Operating Officer.
Peters considerable experience, built over 20 years in the business, is invaluable in his role as Chief Operating Officer.
Peter graduated from Nottingham University with a degree in Economics, and from the London Business School with a Masters in Finance.
| 56 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE CHAIRMANS STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL INVESTOR STATEMENT REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS RESOURCES ROGER YATES | SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR | AGE: 58 Roger joined the Board as Senior Independent Director in February 2006.
He has over 28 years experience in the fund management industry, both as an investment professional and a business manager.
He brings a broad knowledge and understanding of investor issues and the financial services sector having previously served as Chief Investment Officer of Invesco Global, and holding senior roles at fund management firms LGT and Morgan Grenfell.
He was Chief Executive of Henderson Group plc and previously served as a Non-Executive Director for F&C Asset Management plc.
Roger will step down from the Board at the AGM on 15 October 2015.
Other current appointments: Roger is a Non-Executive Director of St Jamess Place plc and JPMorgan Elect plc, as well as Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc and Pioneer Global Asset Management SpA.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
STEPHEN HILL | NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR | AGE: 55 Stephen joined the Board in April 2011.
He brings significant and extensive board experience having previously served as the CEO of Betfair plc and holding managerial roles at Pearson plc, including the role of CEO of the Financial Times Group.
He was Chairman of Interactive Data Corporation in the US as well as a member of the boards of Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, Psion plc and Channel 4.
Other current appointments: Stephen is the Chairman and CEO of DAval, his familys private investment company, and Trustee and Chairman of the Royal National Institute for Deaf People Action on Hearing Loss.
He is also a member of the Advisory Board of the Cambridge Judge Business School and a Non-Executive Director of Applerigg Limited and Aztec Limited, a fund administration business, and of Ofcom.
Committee Membership: Board Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
SAM TYMMS | NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR | AGE: 51 Sam joined the Board in May 2013.
She began her career at the London Stock Exchanges Surveillance Division, which over time became the Securities and Futures Authority and eventually the Financial Services Authority.
During that time, she held a range of supervisory roles and worked for two years in the Investigations and Enforcement Division.
As a supervisor, she ran departments overseeing global investment firms, retail and investment banks and major insurance groups.
Sams extensive experience in the regulatory field and her knowledge of compliance matters provide a valuable contribution to the Board.
Other current appointments: Sam is currently a Managing Director at Promontory Financial Group, a leading strategy, risk management and regulatory compliance consulting firm, where she advises financial services businesses on a wide range of risk and regulatory matters.
Committee Membership: Board Risk Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
JIM NEWMAN | NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR | AGE: 50 Jim joined the Board in October 2013.
A qualified Chartered Accountant, he was Finance Director for Resolution plc, having joined the company as Group Financial Controller.
Jim spent ten years at Aviva, where he was Group Integration Director for the CGU Norwich Union merger and Finance Director of Norwich Union Life, Avivas UK life insurance business.
He was formerly the Corporate Development Director for Friends Life Group, where his responsibilities included overseeing the final separation and integration of the UK life business acquired by Resolution plc, as well as the delivery of the overall group change portfolio and strategic corporate development.
His in-depth knowledge and experience of the financial services sector, as well as his considerable experience both as a CFO and in the implementation of transformation programmes, is proving invaluable to the Board.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 57 THE BOARD A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the The Board is responsible Boards decision can be found on the Groups website.
for promoting and ensuring The matters that have not been specifically reserved for the the long-term success of the Board are delegated to the Executive Directors.
These include the development, recommendation and implementation Groupthrough the creation of the strategic plans for the Group: the development and and delivery of sustainable implementation of the risk management systems, policies and procedure: the promotion of a good standard of corporate shareholder value.
governance and shareholder engagement and monitoring the Groups operating and financial results.
BOARD STRUCTURE The Board is made up of the Chairman, Executive Directors, including the Chief Executive Officer, and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and has been LEADERSHIP approved by the Board.
ROLE OF THE BOARD Chairman The Boards role is to provide guidance and entrepreneurial The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and leadership of the Company by setting the strategic direction creating the right conditions for its effective working of the Group and overseeing managements implementation and overall governance.
He sets the Boards agenda, in of the strategy within a framework of prudent and effective consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and Company risk controls.
The Board is responsible for promoting and Secretary, taking full account of Board members issues and ensuring the long-term success of the Group through the concerns and the need to allow sufficient time for items on creation and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
the agenda to be discussed.
It is the Chairmans responsibility The Board seeks to ensure that, while the ultimate focus is on to encourage and facilitate active engagement by Directors, long-term growth, management also delivers on short-term drawing on their skills, knowledge and experience.
The objectives and achieves the right balance between immediate Chairman is also responsible for ensuring there is effective and future goals.
When setting the Groups strategy and communication with shareholders and other stakeholders, monitoring its implementation, the Board considers the and that Directors are aware and maintain an understanding impact its decisions may have on various stakeholders, such of their views.
The Chairman works closely with the Chief as suppliers, investors, employees and the environment as a Executive Officer, Tim Howkins, to ensure that the strategies whole.
It is accountable for ensuring that, as a collective body, and actions agreed by the Board are effectively implemented.
it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to Chief Executive Officer perform its role effectively.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for recommending The powers of the Board are set out in the Companys articles the Groups strategy to the Board, implementing the agreed of association, which are available on the Groups website, strategy and managing the day-to-day business of the Group.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred The Board has delegated this responsibility to him, and he is on it by the articles and in accordance with the Companies accountable to the Board.
Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
Executive Directors The Board maintains and periodically reviews a list of matters The Executive Directors support the Chief Executive Officer that are reserved to, and can only be approved by the Board.
in implementing the Groups strategy and in the operational These include setting Group strategy: approval of major performance of the business.
acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: approval Non-Executive Directors of annual budgets: approval of changes to the Groups The Non-Executive Directors are independent of capital structure including reduction of capital: approval of management and are considered by the Board to be free expansion plans into new business or geographies: reviewing from any business or other relationships, which could operational and financial performance: appointment and compromise their independence.
Their role is to effectively termination of the Directors and Company Secretary: approval advise and constructively challenge management, along of policies related to Directors remuneration and severance with monitoring managements success in delivering of Directors contracts: ensuring adequate succession the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control planning for the Board and senior management: setting the framework set by the Board.
They are also responsible for risk appetite of the Group and approval of any changes to the determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Groups risk management policy that materially increases the Executive Directors.
| 58 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS Senior Independent Director The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director The Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors role is during the year, including the Board strategy day, is set to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and support outbelow: him in the delivery of his objectives.
He serves as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
He maintains an understanding of the major issues and concerns MEETINGS of major shareholders and informs the Board of these ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS issues.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is ATTEND ATTENDED also available to shareholders if they have concerns which Chairman communication via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Jonathan Davie 2 2 Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has failed to Andy Green 9 9 resolve, or when shareholders prefer to speak directly to him.
He is responsible for evaluating the performance of the Independent Non-Executive Directors Chairman on behalf of the other directors.
Martin Jackson 2 2 Stephen Hill 9 8 Company Secretary Jim Newman 9 8 The Company Secretary, Bridget Messer, supports and works Sam Tymms 9 9 closely with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board Committee Chairmen in setting agenda items for Roger Yates 9 9 meetings of the Board and its committees.
She ensures that Executive Directors accurate, timely and high-quality information flows within Tim Howkins 9 9 the Board, the Board Committees and between Directors Peter Hetherington 9 9 and senior management.
In addition, she supports the Christopher Hill 9 9 Chairman in the designing and delivery of Director induction programmes.
The Company Secretary also advises the Board Jonathan Davie retired as Chairman of the Company on 16 October 2014 on corporate governance issues and Board procedures.
Andy Green was appointed as the Deputy Chairman of the Company on 9 June 2014 and as Chairman from 16 October 2014 HOW THE BOARD OPERATES Martin Jackson retired from the Board on 16 October 2014 The Board meets regularly at least five times a year and attends an additional off-site strategy day to review strategic BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR options open to the Group in the context of the economic The Board meeting agendas during the year included and regulatory environment.
There were seven scheduled business across the key areas of strategy, governance, risk and Board meetings this year, including the annual strategy day.
financial performance, as highlighted in the following chart.
In addition to regular reviews of performance, the Board The Board also meets when necessary to discuss important discussed risk appetite, capital and liquidity planning and ad-hoc emerging issues that require consideration between talent management, including succession planning.
Two such meetings were held during the year.
Each Director committed an appropriate BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME amount of time to their duties during the financial year, and Quarterly forecast the Non-Executive Directors met the time commitment and budget specified in their letters of appointment.
Where Directors are Strategy unable to attend meetings, they are encouraged to give the Chairman their views on the matters to be discussed.
Business, operational highlights and current The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally in trading the absence of the Executive Directors at least twice a year.
There were three such meetings during the year.
Risk and governance Financial performance Other | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 59 THE BOARD CONTINUED BOARD COMMITTEES Certain governance responsibilities have been delegated The Chairman of each Board committee reports to the by the Board to Board Committees to ensure that there Board on the matters discussed at committee meetings, is independent oversight of internal control and risk and the minutes of each committee meeting are made management and to assist the Board with carrying out available to all Directors.
Reports from the Chairman of each its responsibilities.
These Board committees comprise Board committee, including information on the committees independent Non-Executive Directors and, in some cases, composition and activities in the year, can be found in the the Chairman.
Each committee has agreed terms of reference sections relating to each committee within this Annual Report.
approved by the Board, which are available on our corporate website, iggroup.
com A brief description of the roles of each Committee is set out below.
AUDIT COMMITTEE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Responsible for: Responsible for: Integrity of the financial statements of the Group, Providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation including its annual and interim reports.
to current and future risk exposures of the Group and promoting a risk awareness culture within the Group.
Reviews and recommends to the Board: Reviews and recommends to theBoard: The effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function and risk management system, annual The design and implementation of risk management internal audit plan, appointment, policy and measurement strategies re-appointment and removal of the across the Group, the Groups risk external auditors.
profile, risk appetite and key risk indicators for the current and future strategy.
BOARD COMMITTEES NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Responsible for: Responsible for: Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Making recommendations to the Board on the Groups Committees to ensure that they are appropriately senior executive remuneration policy.
balanced in terms of knowledge, skills and experience.
Reviews and recommends to the Board: Reviews and recommends to the Board: The Groups remuneration policy which is consistent Appointments to the Board and to other senior with effective risk management, the framework for the management positions.
remuneration of the Companys Chairman and executive directors and all share-based awards under the Groups Employee Incentive Scheme.
| 60 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 COMPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE AND INDEPENDENT EFFECTIVENESS N0N-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD BOARD COMPOSITION The Boards size and the skills and experience of its members, have a significant impact on its effectiveness.
Itaims to Independent 1 Non-Executive Chairman maintain a balance in terms of experience and skills of individual Board members.
These factors are regularly Executive Directors 3 reviewed to ensure that the Board has the right mix of skills Independent and experience for constructive discussion and, ultimately, 4 Non-Executive Directors effective Board decisions.
1 INDUSTRY BACKGROUND EXPERIENCE NUMBER OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST DIRECTORS Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE they may have interests that conflict with those of the AND NON-EXECUTIVE Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
EXPERIENCE CHAIRMAN Directors are required to disclose both the nature and extent Financial services 7 of any potential or actual conflicts with the interests of the Company.
Accountancy Finance expert 3 Regulatory 5 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential Marketing 4 conflicts that may arise, and to impose such conditions or PR 4 limitations as it sees fit.
During the year, potential conflicts IT 4 were considered and assessed by the Board and approved where appropriate.
Current or recent 4 ChiefExecutive Officer or SUCCESSION PLANNING AND APPOINTMENTS TO Chairman 4 THE BOARD Prior plc experience The Board uses succession planning to ensure that Executives 1 Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
with the necessary skills, knowledge and expertise are in place to deliver our strategy, and that it has the right balance There is an appropriate combination of Executive of individuals to be able to discharge its responsibilities.
Directors and Non-Executive Directors such that no The Board regularly reviews its composition to keep it individual or small group of individuals can dominate the constantly refreshed.
Any searches for Board candidates, Boards decision-making.
and appointments made, are based on merit against DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE objective criteria.
The Company is fully compliant with the UK Corporate The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility for Governance Code, which requires that at least half of the the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Nonand it recommends new appointments to the Board.
It Executive Directors who are determined by the Board to regularly reviews the structure, size and composition required be independent.
of the Board and makes recommendation to the Board as The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is appropriate.
More information on the work of the Committee considered by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis, as can be found in the report of the Nomination Committee part of the Board effectiveness.
The Board considers factors on pages 66 to 67.
The Board as a whole is also involved such as length of tenure and relationships or circumstances, in overseeing the development of management resources which are likely to affect or appear to affect the Directors across the Group.
judgement in determining whether they remain independent.
LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Following this years review, the Board concluded that all of the Non-Executive Directors continue to remain independent in character and judgement and are free from any business or other relationships, which could materially affect the exercise 0-3 years 3 of their judgement.
3-6 years 1 6-9 years 1 | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 61 THE BOARD CONTINUED His induction programme also included meetings with other Directors, Company heads and visit to global offices of the Group.
He also attended meetings of all the committees of which he is not a member to assess the framework in which the committees operate and for a better understanding of the work of the Committees.
ONGOING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT INDUCTION Given the rapidly changing environment in which the On appointment, each new Director receives a full and Group operates, all Directors are given regular updates on formal bespoke induction to familiarise them with their changes and developments in the business.
The Company duties and the Companys business operations, risk and Secretary on a regular basis updates the Board on any governance arrangements.
The induction programme, relevant legislative, regulatory and governance changes.
A which is coordinated by the Company Secretary, includes professional development programme is in place to enable briefings on regulatory matters relating to the Company, as Directors to fulfil their roles and personal development logs well as meetings with senior management in key areas of the are maintained for each Non-Executive Director.
business, such as compliance, legal, IT, human resources, Training opportunities are provided through internal finance, risk, marketing and investor relations.
These are meetings, presentations and briefings by internal advisers, supplemented by induction materials such as recent Board business heads as well as external advisers.
During the year, papers and minutes, organisation structure charts, history the Directors attended briefing sessions on cyber security of the Group, industry and regulatory reports and relevant and risks, the Groups mobile apps development business, company policies.
Newly appointed Directors also meet generic top-level domains gTLDs and the newly launched the companys external auditors and corporate brokers and stockbroking business.
attend a presentation led by Linklaters on the roles and responsibilities of a UK-listed company director.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update and refresh their skills and knowledge, and independent Inductions are tailored to each Directors individual professional advice is provided when required, at the experience, background and areas of focus.
Chairmans induction INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE BOARD Andy Greens induction programme took into account his The board has full and timely access to all relevant later leadership role as Chairman and among other things, information to enable it to perform its duties effectively.
included the following: COMPANY STRUCTURE, HISTORY, STRATEGY AND BUSINESS Briefing on Group history, strategy, including opportunities and threats, strategy and business model analysis and strength, challenges and risks to the strategy and its implementation Material business lines and markets, including international markets and future plans.
GOVERNANCE, REGULATORY AND RISK Board and Board Committees terms of reference, Board and Committee procedure, listing obligations and market abuse responsibilities Regulatory framework and proposals impacting the business Risk appetite, key risks and priorities, risk management and its effectiveness and Stress testing Scenario planning PRODUCTS, FINANCE, MARKETING AND SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IGs various products, markets in which clients can trade Business plan, Standalone and consolidated balance sheets, budgeting process and financial projections Meeting with top shareholders, analysts and brokers | 62 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 The Company Secretary ensures appropriate and timely The UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial information flows within and to the Board and its committees, Reporting Councils guidance on Board effectiveness enabling the Board to exercise its judgement and make fully recommend that the annual performance review of the Board informed decisions when discharging its duties.
All Directors should be externally facilitated every three years.
To this end, have access to the advice and services of the Company in 2015, the Board engaged Lintstock Limited to assist with Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring the evaluation of its own performance, that of its Committees that Board procedures are followed and compliance with and individual Directors.
Lintstock has no other connection applicable rules and regulations is observed.
The Company with the Company.
Secretary supports the Chairman in setting the Board The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with agenda, and Board papers are distributed to all Directors in the Chairman and the Company Secretariat to set the context advance of Board meetings via a secure electronic system.
for the evaluation, and to tailor the surveys used to the The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the specific circumstances of IG Group.
All Board members were Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance requested to complete a web-based survey addressing the matters.
Directors receive financial and risk information on the performance of the Board and its Committees, the Chairman company on a monthly basis, and they receive briefings from and individual Director performance.
The review addressed the Chief Executive Officer in the periods between meetings.
the following core areas of Board performance: RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The composition of the Board was assessed, and the key The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all changes that ought to be made over the next 12 - 24 directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to months, and over the next 3 - 5 years given the Groups annual election by shareholders.
Each Director and the Board strategic goals in particular, were considered.
as a whole underwent a performance evaluation during The Non-Executive involvement in the affairs of the Group the course of the year.
Following this, all Directors, with outside meetings was considered, and the relationships the exception of Roger Yates and Tim Howkins who will be between the members of the Board, and between the stepping down at the Companys Annual General Meeting Board and management, were reviewed.
AGM on 15 October 2015, will stand for re-election at The time management at meetings was addressed, as was the AGM.
the quality of the presentations made by management BOARD EVALUATION to the Board.
The quality of the Board packs provided in Each year, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board advance of meetings was also considered.
is carried out to monitor and, where necessary, make The role of the Board in testing and developing strategy improvements to the performance of the Board.
In 2014, an was assessed, as was the Boards oversight of the strategic internal evaluation was carried out and, in response to the plan.
The Directors views as to the top strategic issues findings, the following actions have been taken: facing the company were identified.
THEME ACTION TAKEN The Boards attitude towards risk was reviewed, as was the management of the main risks to the business.
THE NEED TO Succession planning for executive The structure of the Group at senior levels was considered, INCREASE and non-executive roles on the Board THE LEVEL OF and the succession planning for Executive Directors, was a main focus of the Nomination FOCUS ON THE and the Boards visibility of potential successors for key Committee in the year.
The Board LONG-TERM skills matrix was reviewed to identify positions from within the business, were addressed.
COMPOSITION the skills and experience required OF THE BOARD.
Further to these core topics, the review also included a to match the long-term strategy of case study on the Boards 2015 strategy day, addressing theCompany.
the management of time, the documentation provided in THE BOARD TO There has been a greater focus advance and the quality of the sessions during the day.
PLAY A MORE on succession planning with the ACTIVE ROLE Board receiving presentations from IN TALENT Executives on succession planning MANAGEMENT for senior management.
In addition, AND further opportunities are being SUCCESSION PLANNING created for the Board to engage FOR SENIOR with senior management by way of EXECUTIVES.
THE NEED There has been continuous TO REVIEW improvement on the quality and MANAGEMENT clarity of papers presented to the INFORMATION Board.
Each paper is accompanied PRESENTED TO with a summary setting out the key THE BOARD.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 63 THE BOARD CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communication with the Companys shareholders, and we have a comprehensive programme to facilitate this each year.
Our Annual Report is an important medium for communicating with shareholders, setting out detailed reviews of the business and its future developments in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Review and the Strategic Report.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report of its findings In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop that were discussed with the Chairman.
Overall, the results an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is indicate that the Board is operating effectively with a number regular dialogue with institutional investors and shareholders, of areas reviewed, rated positively.
The top priorities for the presentations by management and Investor Roadshows Board in the coming year include: around the time of the Groups year-end and half-year results The need to continually manage succession announcements.
These are coordinated by our Investor planning processes: Relations team.
We make these presentations available in The need to consider the amount of time allocated to real time on the Groups website, which also provides a wide strategy and its implementation in the annual cycle of range of other information to shareholders and prospective work: and shareholders.
We also respond to ad hoc requests from shareholders on a very regular basis.
Continuous improvement on the information provided to the Board ahead of meetings.
Meetings with the Companys largest institutional The outcome of the performance review will be discussed at a shareholders and market analysts are held to discuss Board meeting with a view to developing actions to be taken governance, business strategy and financial performance by on the recommendations.
We will report on actions taken and the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Non-Executive progress made in next years Annual Report.
Directors are also available to meet and hear the views of the institutional shareholders when required.
Led by Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, a review of the Chairmans performance was carried out by the Board using a questionnaire completed by the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was discussed with the Board without the Chairman present.
The evaluation of the performance and contribution of each Director was conducted by the Chairman in individual discussions referencing a self-performance review questionnaire completed by each Director.
The reviews concluded that each Director continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
| 64 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Following all investor presentations and meetings, feedback is passed to the Board on any opinions or concerns expressed by shareholders.
The Directors receive regular updates on shareholder views, roadshow feedback as well as analysts reports on market perception of the Groups performance and strategy, and are made aware of the financial expectations of the Group from the outside market.
The Board also receives an Investor Perception study to identify shareholders concerns and actions undertaken for its resolution.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available to meet shareholders on request, and ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through other communication mechanisms.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director provide feedback to the Board on any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
AGM The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors and we welcome and encourage their participation at the meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Board Committees, are available at the AGM to answer questions.
We send the Annual Report and notice of the AGM to shareholders, or make them available on the Groups website, at least 20 working days before the date of the meeting.
The Notice of AGM sets out a clear explanation of each resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions and, if they are unable to attend, can submit written queries in advance of the meeting.
At the meeting, we will make available to shareholders full details of the proxy votes received on each resolution, and we will publish these on the Companys website on the same day.
The 2014 AGM was a successful event attended by all the Directors.
Jonathan Davie and Martin Jackson did not seek re-election and stepped down from the Board of the Company.
All the proposed resolutions were passed with the percentage of votes in favour of each resolution ranging from 94.35% to 99.90%.
The 2015 AGM will be held on 15 October 2015.
The Notice of the Meeting sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice is available on the Companys website iggroup.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 65
