REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Roger Yates, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Chairman of the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 May 2015.
Remuneration Committee, The overall structure of the executive remuneration package gives his review of the and the principles that underpin it have not changed and, therefore, we will continue to operate with the Directors committees activities remuneration policy that has been in place since June 2013 during the financial year.
and was approved in a binding vote by over 96% of our shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
There will be a single advisory vote at this years AGM with regards to this annual statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration that details both amounts paid in respect of the year ending 31 May 2015 and the intended operation of the remuneration policy for the coming year.
I hope you agree that how we have rewarded our executives is commensurate with the Companys performance and that you will support this years resolution at the forthcoming AGM.
THE BUSINESS CONTEXT IN 2015 Over the last year, IG invested significantly in longer-term strategic projects, including the launch and roll-out of stockbroking in the UK and, internationally, expansion into Switzerland and Dubai and increased emphasis on mobile technology.
Against this backdrop underlying revenue for 2015 was 400.2 million, which represents an 8% increase on 2014, and underlying diluted earnings per share DEPS increased by 2% to 41.07 pence per share.
Statutory diluted earnings per share of 35.99 pence are lower than the prior year primarily due to the impact of the unpegging of the Swiss franc in January.
The Board made clear at the time of the first-half results in January its intention to hold the full-year dividend flat on the prior year at 28.15 pence per share.
The Boards recommendation of a final dividend of 19.70 pence per share demonstrates the confidence in the underlying cash generation of the business.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2015 The year to 31 May 2015 is the second year of the executives variable remuneration being awarded under the Sustained Performance Plan SPP.
In respect of performance for the period ended 31 May 2015, the committee has awarded 41% of the maximum potential award under the SPP compared with 54% in the prior year.
The overall SPP outcome is lower than last year primarily as a result of the negative impact on performance of the financial losses resulting from the Swiss franc event in January 2015 on both the earnings per share EPS and the non-financial performance measures.
However, relative total shareholder return against the benchmark has been stronger than that for the prior year and performance against non-financial metrics has, overall, remained strong.
We consider this award to be reflective of performance and the business context as set out above.
| | 68 SCHEDULED MEETINGS SCHEDULED ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS ATTEND ATTENDED The 2015 award under the SPP is driven by three metrics: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Roger Yates 4 4 EPS 45% of the maximum potential award based on 2015 annual performance.
The diluted earnings per share target Independent Non-Executive Directors range for 2015 was set by the committee at 40.18pence Stephen Hill 4 3 to 44.20 pence, with a linear relationship between.
The Jonathan Davie 2 2 unadjusted statutory DEPS has been used for the purposes Martin Jackson 2 2 of performance assessment for the SPP.
While the Swiss Andy Green 4 4 franc event was exceptional in both size and nature and Jonathan Davie stepped down from the committee on 16 October 2014 use of the underlying EPS would have resulted in a partial Martin Jackson stepped down from the committee on 16 October 2014 award, adjustment of the statutory earnings was not Andy Green attended two meetings by invitation deemed to be appropriate.
Accordingly, the statutory EPS of 35.99 pence was below the threshold and none of this REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME element will be awarded.
TSR 35% of the maximum potential award based on Salary and Bonus the two-year performance period ending 31 May 2015.
Scheme Arrangements The Companys TSR over this period of 48.2% ranked the Incentive Awards Company 98th out of 291 FTSE 350 companies excluding Remuneration regulation Investment Trusts : as a result, 74.5% of this element will be awarded.
Remuneration reporting Remuneration policy Non-financial metrics 20% of maximum potential award Other based on a suite of non-financial and delivery objectives relating to the 2015 financial year.
The committee has considered the Companys execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives and performance against key IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION quantitative and qualitative non-financial metrics.
A POLICY FOR 2015 detailed explanation of the Companys performance against Finally, the committee has recommended a 3% base salary the non-financial metrics is discussed at page 84.
Overall, increase for the Executive Directors to take effect from 1 the committee has concluded that 76% of this element will June 2015.
The general increase for employees across the be awarded.
Over the last few years our We remind shareholders that, as was the case last year, the Chief Operating Officer, Peter Hetherington, has received a SPP is the Companys only Executive Director incentive plan reduced salary at 80% of the annual equivalent to reflect his for 2015, replacing both the annual bonus and long-term flexible working arrangements.
From this year, Peter will revert incentive plans.
to normal working arrangements and therefore the reduced salary will no longer apply.
2015 also marked the end of the performance period for the 2012 awards made under the previous long-term plan, the For 2016, the committee will use the same SPP metrics Value Sharing Plan.
None of this award vested, despite strong described above, with the same weightings.
Accordingly, TSR over the three-year period of 88%, and as a result of the EPS will drive 45% of the maximum potential award, with impact of the Swiss franc event on statutory PBT.
relative TSR and non-financial metrics accounting for 35% and 20% respectively.
The committee considers that shareholders deserve thorough In relation to the EPS targets, as with past years, the disclosure on remuneration.
To this end, the Company has committee has used a set of internal and external reference set out extensive explanation of the judgements it has made points.
The target range will be disclosed and explained in in granting the above awards.
This disclosure is set out in the next years remuneration report.
Annual Report on Remuneration at page 84.
I hope that you will support the advisory vote on the The committee is regularly informed of potential changes to remuneration resolution at the AGM.
If, in the meantime, you remuneration regulations that could impact the current policy.
have any questions regarding our remuneration report then In particular, we are mindful of the impact of the European we will be pleased to consider them.
Banking Authoritys current consultation on changes to its guidelines that would remove the proportionality exemptions for certain companies.
The proposed changes to the proportionality principle are likely to require amendments to the Groups Sustained Performance Plan and overall Roger Yates remuneration policy.
With this in mind, the committee is Chairman, Remuneration Committee conscious of the need to consult with shareholders at an early 21 July 2015 stage and we will do so in advance of any material change to the remuneration policy, if required.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 69
