BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS Our business model can only function because it is supported by several critical resources and relationships.
The team OUR RESOURCES OUR PEOPLE MANAGE has increased investor awareness of our AND RELATIONSHIPS THE INVESTMENT PROCESS products, expanding our fund investor It is through our people that over the last The Group has a consistent, efficient and network both geographically and by investor 26 years we have generated a brand and robust investment culture across its products.
This enhanced network promotes track record making us a well known and We deliver a disciplined investment process, continuous engagement and supports the highly respected fund manager in our core demonstrate core credit principles and development of investment products which markets.
Evidence of the quality of our are focused on capital preservation.
business has been recognised as we have Our rigorous risk analysis and engagement Our distribution team have replicated the with our portfolio management processes received three awards during the last year.
local model established by the investment continue throughout the life of the business.
Their local market knowledge, investment, encompassing regular reviews, supported with an understanding of what The contribution of our people to the active management of the investment and the Group can offer, is giving us access value of our business is demonstrated a proactive approach to realisation.
through our: Our investment professionals are Investment management skills specialists, with the skills required to OUR PEOPLE MANAGE OUR understand and assess the relevant risks Distribution capabilities SCALABLE INFRASTRUCTURE and opportunities for their product, to Scalable infrastructure originate investments and then manage Our infrastructure teams support the whole business, ensuring consistency and quality those assets to realise returns for investors.
of service to our counterparties and fund Successful application of those skills investors.
They have established, manage has supported the development of our AWARDS longstanding track record.
and continue to develop systems and controls to support our investment activities We value the local knowledge of our investment and effectively report on the performance professionals.
We believe that this is crucial and activities of the Group and our funds.
to maintain a strong flow of investment Our employees have the market skills, opportunities and to effectively manage our investments.
Our teams speak the local knowledge and relationships to support the business as we progress our strategic languages, understand local laws and customs priorities, expanding both our product and have the necessary depth of relationships range and our geographical coverage.
OUR PEOPLE MANAGE OUR PEOPLE DISTRIBUTE OUR KEY RELATIONSHIPS OUR PRODUCTS Building and maintaining our key Our dedicated distribution team relationships is essential to both support is embedded within the business.
Our relationships with third party fund the growth of the business and deliver our strategic objectives.
investors have strengthened since the STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS OUR RESPONSIBILITY The Group is expanding and strengthening its relationships TO OUR PEOPLE 1 with third party investors.
Our products offer investors an To successfully deliver our strategic priorities opportunity to diversify their portfolio and generate yield.
the Group is focused on engaging with GROW ASSETS We are continuously engaged with our investors to understand and motivating its employees.
The current UNDER their current and future needs and to ensure that we have the engagement of our people is demonstrated MANAGEMENT products to meet these requirements.
by our staff retention rate of 93.3%.
The availability of balance sheet capital to co-invest and Effective two way communication with our to support product development is underpinned by our people is essential to build and maintain relationships with our key finance counterparties.
We have a number of formal banks, bondholders, other lenders and rating agencies.
and informal channels to achieve this.
Our active compliance team works with the business and our These include quarterly whole business regulators to both identify and manage regulatory risk and also briefings, an intranet and regular team to promote best practice within the marketing, investment and and manager meetings.
The profile of this area is increasing as The Group conducts regular, confidential, we expand our product range.
employee surveys to identify the areas of the business in need of further development, and those areas that are performing well.
The last survey was conducted in 2012 Our investment professionals manage the relationships 2 and demonstrated that the Group was necessary to originate and source investment opportunities performing well above financial services for our funds.
These relationships include financial advisers, INVEST norms.
It also demonstrated clear progress banks and other investment managers.
Our reputation, built SELECTIVELY on the initiatives identified in the prior survey.
up over 26 years, has generated strong, supportive, asset sourcing networks.
The Group considers that training and development are essential to attract and ICG is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible retain people of the highest calibre and has Investment.
We acknowledge the relevance to the investor of environmental, social and governance factors, and of always invested significantly in this.
We are committing to enhancing the knowledge and the long-term health and stability of the market as a whole.
skills of our people and nurturing their talent.
Our investment committees and investment professionals take We run an extensive programme of internal responsibility for applying the principles in practice, taking a proactive approach to considering environmental, social and and external training to develop and enhance core skills, increase technical competency corporate governance factors in all our investment decisions.
and to develop future leaders.
The ongoing development of our people is supported by our performance management system.
This provides a regular forum We invest money across the capital structure of companies for employees and managers to review 3 and property assets.
We seek to develop strong relationships performance against agreed objectives and both with owners and the management teams.
Our investment to identify areas for further development.
MANAGE teams have local market knowledge and access to the Groups Our people are offered access to a range PORTFOLIOS extensive sector and market experience to support those of benefits designed to attract, develop and TO MAXIMISE businesses.
Attendance at board meetings of originated retain talented employees.
We ensure our corporate investments both increases our knowledge of the VALUE levels of overall remuneration are sufficient business and allows our investment professionals to develop to attract and retain talent.
Benefits include: strong relationships with management teams.
pension contributions, healthcare and health screening, life assurance, child care vouchers, travel insurance, share save scheme, gym membership and cycle to work schemes.
The Group supports flexible working, with 8.5% of employees benefitting from these arrangements.
Our employee initiated turnover is 7.6%.
44 45 BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED The Group runs an internship programme DIVERSITY AND VALUES For more information about which offers a number of placements The permanent employee population of Impetus-PEF please visit: for young graduates who have achieved 236 represents 28 different nationalities.
uk academically but are not readily able to Of our permanent employees 82 are women access opportunities in the financial sector.
For more information about and 154 men.
We do not record the religion ThinkForward please visit: The fully funded internship offers the or ethnicity of employees.
uk management team excluding the Groups opportunity to rotate through ICGs key business areas, building a strong Board comprises two women and three For more information about Tower understanding of our business model with the men and ICGs Board comprises eight Hamlets Pupil Referral Unit please visit: opportunities to specialise in a specific role.
individuals of which one is a woman.
uk The internship programme is expected to We are committed to providing a safe and provide that difficult first step on the career healthy work environment for our people ladder.
The programme is now in its third year, OUR RESPONSIBILITY where diversity is valued, where everyone with both of its previous cohorts having TO OUR ENVIRONMENT is treated fairly and with dignity and respect, successfully secured a permanent job in their regardless of age, gender, race, sexual ICG recognises that businesses have a chosen field.
orientation, disability, religion or beliefs.
responsibility to protect the environment The Group has made a five year, 500k We do not tolerate discrimination of any and understand the impact their operations commitment to Impetus-PEFs ThinkForward nature and comply fully with appropriate have, and we take appropriate measures programme.
ThinkForward was set up by human rights legislation.
We aim for to limit our energy use and carbon output.
employees to have a sense of wellbeing the Private Equity Foundation now merged The Group is required to state the annual with Impetus to form Impetus-PEF in 2010 and we promote a working culture where quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon to dramatically reduce the risk of young employees can freely question practices dioxide equivalent from activities for which people becoming NEETs not in education, and suggest alternatives.
The Groups employment or training.
According to carbon emissions result predominantly from Impetus-PEF, 15% of young people are failing OUR RESPONSIBILITY business travel.
Using Defra DECCs GHG to make a successful move from education into TO OUR COMMUNITY conversion factors for company reporting, employment.
The charity places dedicated Our social and community policies and emissions for the year to 31 March 2015 coaches in schools where there are young practices are grounded in promoting were 2,987 tonnes of CO. 2 people who have been identified as at risk opportunities to young people, through We have reported on all of the emission of becoming NEETs.
The coaches work with education or work experience.
In practice sources required under the Companies individuals to help them achieve their goals, this means making a contribution through Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors providing support both at school and at home.
creating work experience opportunities report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall The Groups commitment has provided funding across the Group and supporting a charity within our consolidated financial statements.
to support a full time coach for the Harpley ThinkForward which helps young people We do not have responsibility for any emission Tower Hamlets Pupil Referral Unit.
The coach make the often difficult transition from sources that are not included in our works with young people to support them to education to the workplace.
In addition, consolidated financial statements.
maximise their opportunities while in full time employees are encouraged to donate time education and to improve their chances of a to activities supporting ThinkForward or successful transition into long term employment.
have the opportunity to receive matched ICG is the first company to make such a contributions for their fundraising efforts commitment to a Pupil Referral Unit and for other charities.
is very proud of its association.
Operational scope Greenhouse gas emission source 2015 2014 Units FIVE YEAR COMMITMENT TO Direct emissions On-site air conditioning IMPETUS PEF THINKFORWARD Scope 1 refrigerant loss 177 14 Tonnes CO2e PROGRAMME Indirect emissions Scope 2 Purchased electricity heat 910 870 Tonnes CO2e Indirect emissions 500 Scope 3 Business travel: flights and rail 1,900 3,554 Tonnes CO2e Total 2,987 4,438 Tonnes CO e 2 K Emissions per FTE 12.4 20.6 Tonnes CO2e per FTE STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTENTS Letter from the Chairman 48 Board of Directors 50 Our corporate governance framework 52 The Boards year 54 Training and induction 56 Board evaluation 57 Engaging with stakeholders 58 Audit Committee report 59 Risk Committee report 68 Nominations Committee report 73 Remuneration Committee report 76 Compensation at a glance 79 Directors remuneration policy summary 80 Annual report on remuneration 88 Directors report 98 Directors responsibilities 105 Auditors report 106 46 47
