CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT TRAINING AND INDUCTION The Board recognises the importance of Client Relations, Operations, Treasury, INDUCTION the continued professional development Investor Relations, Legal, Compliance, IT The goal of the Groups induction process of the Directors in order to build on their and Human Resources.
Sessions on the for new Directors is to create a programme existing skills and experience.
During Groups European Mezzanine Lending of briefings, concentrated in the early the year the Board received detailed and Credit Funds businesses are planned period of a Directors appointment, which presentations about specific products for the forthcoming financial year.
As well enable that Director to contribute to Board and business units, to ensure that the non as deepening their understanding of the proceedings from the time of joining the executive members of the Board are fully Groups business, products and markets, Board.
The programme is tailored to the aware of the detailed operations of the Group.
these sessions allow Non Executive particular skills and experience of the In addition, a regular training programme Directors to understand team structures incoming Director.
Kathryn Purves was has been established.
Under this programme, and assist with succession planning.
appointed to the Board during the financial the five Non Executive Directors of the In addition, the Board and its various year: on appointment she received a pack Company receive detailed presentations Committees regularly receive technical or of relevant documentation and policies from staff members about specialist areas governance updates from external advisers.
and has subsequently had a detailed relating to the Groups business.
As well During the year, the Audit Committee induction to the Group, its business and as presentations to the Board as a whole, received regular updates from Deloitte as its personnel through a series of meetings a bespoke induction programme was to market and industry developments, the and presentations.
carried out for Kathryn Purves as an Risk Committee was given a presentation by incoming Non Executive Director.
Travers Smith on regulatory developments Induction meetings have included: affecting the Groups business, and ONGOING TRAINING the Remuneration Committee received One on one meetings with AND DEVELOPMENT presentations from PwC on trends in the Chairman, the Senior The main focus of development for the governance practice and other relevant Independent Director and developments relating to remuneration.
Board has been in continuing to improve other Non Executive Directors their detailed understanding of the Groups Outside of scheduled meetings, a regular At least one meeting with each business.
On a regular basis, business training programme has been established of the Executive Directors and unit heads have presented to the Board in to allow a more detailed look at certain multiple meetings with the CFO, relation to developments in their business topics: under this programme, the five Non and presentations from executive areas, including risks and opportunities Executive Directors of the Company receive management on the Groups business for growth.
Presentations were received a detailed and more operationally focussed A briefing from the General Counsel by the Directors during the financial year presentation from staff members about and Company Secretary on the legal from the Heads of Asia Pacific Mezzanine, specialist topics relating to the Companys governance and control framework North American Debt, Real Estate Lending, business.
The first two sessions held have of the Group, as well as the duties and Alternative Credit and Private Equity been a workshop on the Groups fund obligations of Directors Secondaries.
Presentations were also marketing process, including the production given by the Heads of Marketing and A briefing from the Group and verification of marketing documents, Compliance Officer on the Groups and a session on risk monitoring in certain regulatory framework credit funds.
Sessions with the heads of Credit Funds, Internal Audit, Treasury, Operations, Human Resources, Finance and Investor Relations AS A RESULT OF THE WIDE-RANGING AND Discussions with the Groups BESPOKE INDUCTION PROGRAMME, I WAS Audit Partner from Deloitte and Remuneration adviser from PwC.
ABLE TO QUICKLY BUILD A THOROUGH AND COMPREHENSIVE PICTURE OF THE GROUP AND ITS BUSINESS, WHICH MEANT I COULD CONTRIBUTE TO THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES FROM AN EARLY STAGE FOLLOWING MY APPOINTMENT.
KATHRYN PURVES NON EXECTUTIVE DIRECTOR
