CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT THE IDENTIFICATION, CONTROL, MITIGATION AND REPORTING OF RISKS IS CORE TO THE SUCCESSFUL DELIVERY OF THE GROUPS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
OUR WORK FOCUSES ON ENSURING THE GROUP UNDERSTANDS THE MATERIAL RISKS ARISING FROM BOTH THE GEOGRAPHIC AND PRODUCT EXPANSION OF THE GROUP AND FROM NEW EXTERNAL REGULATIONS, AND MANAGES THOSE RISKS TO WITHIN THE BOARDS RISK APPETITE.
KEVIN PARRY CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE KEY ACHIEVEMENTS DURING THE YEAR Reviewed the process undertaken by management to stay abreast of, and implement, regulatory changes Undertook detailed reviews of the risks associated with the Groups geographic and product expansion Confirmed the effectiveness of managements process for managing the unplanned loss of key employees Advanced the recruitment of the Chief Risk Officer STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS We have appointed an experienced CRO DEAR SHAREHOLDER THE YEAR AHEAD to complement the existing Head of Risks are best controlled in an environment The Committee will continue to monitor Global Compliance.
The CFO now chairs of high ethical standards that respect laws, the risks faced by the Group in delivering an operational risk committee which is regulations and best practices.
The Board its strategic objectives, in particular cultural providing a forum for operational risks to be seeks to lead the Group by setting a tone risks arising from the expansion of the Group discussed regularly and for related controls that underpins a global culture of behaving will be considered.
The CRO will be asked to be enhanced.
This Committee reviews the appropriately in the interests of our to challenge the Internal Capital Adequacy output of that executive committee.
shareholders, fund investors and colleagues.
Assessment Process ICAAP and to head Following the recruitment of the CRO, a thorough review of: the design, As the Group expands, we recognise that the Group will be in a position to develop implementation and monitoring of risk our culture will naturally evolve through the fully its three lines of defence: Operational management and internal control systems: introduction of recruits in our spreading Management, Risk, Legal and Compliance: the principal risks and the associated risk geographical reach.
Whilst being determined and Internal Audit.
This work will to preserve our cultural standards, we also be consistent with an expectation of meeting The identification, control, mitigation recognise that the risks we face need to be the revised requirements of the Combined and reporting of risks is a fundamental underpinned with more sophisticated Code in respect of the Boards responsibility systems of control and monitoring.
The Risk aspect of operating in the financial to maintain effective risk management and sector.
Good practice requires a sound Committee is facing up to these challenges.
understanding of the Groups risks, our In particular, we determined in conjunction appetite for risk taking and mitigations to with management that it is appropriate to I would be pleased to discuss the enhance the management of risks by the limit downsides.
The Risk Committee has Committees work with any shareholder.
worked closely with the Audit Committee appointment of a Chief Risk Officer CRO with the aim of effectively covering pertinent and the establishment of an executive topics in one or other forum.
Kevin Parry During the year we focused on the risks Chairman of the Risk Committee arising from the expansion of the Groups 21 May 2015 The following pages set out the Risk geographic coverage, its product range and Committee report for the financial year new regulations.
The principal risks faced by 2015.
The report is structured into the Group and how they are managed are set two parts: out on pages 41 to 43 of this Annual Report.
Governance of risk: our scope and terms of reference 2. Review of the year: the significant risk issues we addressed COMMITTEE MEMBERS IN THE YEAR ATTENDANCE A A. KEVIN PARRY 4 4 B RISK COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN C D B. JUSTIN DOWLEY 4 4 E CHAIRMAN F C. PETER GIBBS 3 4 NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR D. KIM WAHL 3 4 NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR E. KATHRYN PURVES 2 2 NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR F. LINDSEY MCMURRAY 1 2 NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Lindsey McMurray ceased to be a Director on 17 October 2014 and was replaced by Kathryn Purves with effect from that date.
68 69 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The 2015 effectiveness review largely GOVERNANCE OF RISK COMPOSITION mirrored the comprehensive 2014 review On behalf of the Board, the Committee The Committee consists of Non Executive to allow direct comparison of performance.
encourages and seeks to safeguard high Directors only.
The current members are It was completed by all Risk Committee standards of risk management and effective Kevin Parry Chairman of the Committee, members and regular invited attendees.
Justin Dowley, Peter Gibbs, Kathryn Purves The review included best practice questions.
Lindsey McMurray was a The results confirmed that the breadth of the ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES member of the Committee up to the date Committees work has expanded in line with of her resignation from the Board.
The Committee meets regularly, at least Group developments and that it operates three times a year, and is responsible for: Biographical details can be found on pages effectively, fulfils its terms of reference and 50 and 51. receives reliable and trustworthy information Reviewing the Groups identification The Committee members have a wide from management.
Most respondents of current and forward looking range of business and financial experience, looked forward to the presence of a CRO risk exposures including risk management, fund which will allow for the preparation of more Advising the Board on risk appetite and management and investment, regulation comprehensive papers and improvements tolerance, ensuring that final judgments and compliance, M&A, tax and international in formal regulatory documents.
are properly reflected in the ICAAP business practices.
In particular, Kevin Parry Assessing the risk management framework is the former chairman of Schroder plcs STAYING ABREAST OF and the effectiveness of the Groups risk executive risk committee and Kathryn Purves REGULATORY CHANGE management systems by commissioning is the Chief Risk Officer of Partnership The Group is exposed to risk as the and reviewing reports on effectiveness Insurance Group plc.
These skills enable the regulatory requirements for its activities Committee to fulfil its Terms of Reference Reviewing and approving the statements change.
Consequently the Committee in a robust and independent manner.
to be included in the Annual Report received regular updates of known and concerning risk management The Executive Directors of the Board are anticipated regulatory changes and not members of the Committee but attend challenged managements approach to Reviewing the Groups procedures for meetings at the invitation of the Chairman preparing for and implementing new identifying, assessing, controlling and of the Committee.
We worked through a specific mitigating the material risks faced by example of how we manage compliance risk the Group EFFECTIVENESS overseas using outsourced partners.
Ensuring procedures allow for The Committee reviews its Terms of proportionate and independent KEY BUSINESS INITIATIVES Reference and effectiveness annually.
investigation of identified issues and During the year the Group expanded its appropriate follow up action The 2014 effectiveness review identified activities resulting in new commercial and that Risk Committee members would like Advising the Remuneration Committee regulatory exposures.
The Committee more training on market developments.
on the alignment of remuneration with focused on the risks associated with those Special sessions have commenced for risk appetite key initiatives.
In particular, we looked at the all Non Executive Directors.
The first use of derivatives for alpha generation in such session was on global marketing the alternative credit fund and associated encompassing compliance requirements.
We made changes to the Additionally, Committee members requested investment oversight of derivatives by the more formality in papers prepared for the establishment of a new executive investment Committee and more time for discussion committee.
We also supported the of emerging issues.
Consequently, a establishment of an executive operational rolling agenda of specific risk reviews was risk committee comprising the infrastructure established based on papers prepared heads of departments.
by management and there was a round table session to re-identify risks that was subsequently refined to restate the risk register.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS REVIEW OF THE YEAR The Committee held four meetings during the year.
In each of its meetings, it discusses top and emerging risks with management, reviews the work of the Operational Risk Committee and receives reports on global compliance including the monitoring programme and regulatory developments: funds risk management and operational controls.
Other work is undertaken periodically, either once or twice a year.
Over the course of the year the Committee considered and discussed the following significant matters: THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN CONCLUSION The Group is exposed to risk The Committee has received regular updates setting out The regular updates provided sufficient as the regulatory requirements the enacted and expected changes to regulations to which information to enable the Committee to be for its activities change.
In particular, the Committee reviewed satisfied that the Group managed its compliance see page 41 readiness for compliance with the Alternative Investment affairs with appropriate due diligence.
Fund Management Directive EU : the European Market The Committee supported the recruitment Infrastructure Regulation EU : the Capital Resources of a deputy head of global compliance based in New York with particular responsibility for Directive IV EU and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act US all of which materially affect the Group.
Committee monitored overseas registrations with the The Committee decided that the programme SEC US, CFTC US and MAS Singapore in addition of inviting local advisers to provide updates on to overseeing the establishment of a Japanese mezzanine the ongoing and expected regulatory changes fund, in partnership with Nomura, and a senior loan fund in their region should continue.
in Australia, utilising existing UK regulatory licences.
The Committee received a presentation from Travers Smith on future UK regulations that would impact the Group.
In addition, the Committee has specifically reviewed the arrangements in place to support the marketing function in complying with the complex and country specific requirements for their activities working through a country specific example.
During the year the Group The Committee has been kept informed of the development The Committee was and is satisfied that expanded its activities resulting of policies and procedures to satisfy the respective appropriate policies and procedures were in new regulatory exposures.
regulations arising from undertaking new regulated and are in place to meet the Groups expanded see page 41 activities in existing or new jurisdictions.
It has challenged regulatory obligations.
managements assessment of the adequacy of the proposed policies and procedures.
The unplanned loss of one or more The Committee has reviewed employee turnover across the The Committee reviewed key leavers and the key employees is considered a key Group, with particular attention paid to those considered reason for their departure and concluded that risk to the Group.
The Committee considered any the Group is effectively managing this risk.
see page 43 mitigation of key employee risk and discussed the possible This remains a significant risk and will be kept consequences of the growth in headcount as the business under review.
Other material risks see pages The Committee has overseen and challenged the assessment The Committee considers that the material risks 41 to 43 the Group uses a and management of material risks faced by the Group by faced by the Group and the tolerances and key risk scorecard as a key part of reference to the risk scorecard which has been presented risk indicators for each material risk are adequately its risk management framework.
to the Committee regularly during the year.
The Committee is The scorecard summarises the satisfied that the risk scorecard is an effective The challenge reaffirmed the relevance of the majority of the material risks faced by the Group, mechanism for identifying and monitoring the prevailing material risks while highlighting the need to add the tolerance of the Group to each material risks to which the Group is exposed but or remove a small number of material risks as the Groups respective material risk, and key decided that there needs to be some recalibration business strategy and its execution evolves.
risk indicators that indicate, for of tolerances to reflect the growth in the size each material risk, the extent to of the Group.
which the tolerance is being approached or has been exceeded.
70 71 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN CONCLUSION Treasury risks including liquidity The Committee has received regular updates of the activities The Committee concluded that the Treasury risk, foreign exchange risk and of the Treasury Committee in managing the Groups Committee was effective in managing these interest rate risk.
exposure to financial risks and, in particular, the Group has risks for the Group and will continue to receive see page 41 suffiient resources and liquidty to meet its requirements.
regular reports of their activities.
Funds risk management and The Committee received regular reports on the risk The Committee is satisfied that the risk operational controls.
management framework established in respect of the funds management and operation control systems are see page 41 the Group advise or manage.
effective and that the regular reports it receives are sufficient to monitor effectively the risks.
The Committee paid particular attention in the year to the framework developed to support the new investment The Committee remains highly focussed on the strategy, Alternative Credit.
development of controls over Alternative Credit and will carry out a deep review in the next financial year.
ICAAP the Internal Capital During the year, the Committee formally reviewed the The Committee is satisfied that the Group has Adequacy Assessment Process current and future impact of the material risks facing the and will have adequate capital in the event of of the FCA.
Group on the Groups capital adequacy as required under the crystallisation of material risks faced by the ICAAP.
The Pillar 3 disclosures required to be made the Group.
public as a result are available on the Companys website The new CRO will be tasked with challenging at www.
The Committee reviewed the management of seed capital: The Committee has tasked management with IT systems and cyber security: concentration of exposures reducing the quantity of seed capital applied to geographies and industries.
to each strategy and is fully supportive of the extensive investment being undertaken in IT systems, including security.
Internal policies are reviewed on a rolling basis.
For example, The Committee approved amendments for reviews covered the financial crime avoidance policy geographical and product expansion and was including money laundering : the anti-bribery and satisfied that the Group had complied with corruption policy: the whistleblowing policy: the conflicts its policies.
of interest policy and the liquidity policy.
INTERNAL AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE MONITORING There were four internal audits concluded during the year encompassing IT governance and general controls: conflicts of interest in connection with the early redemption of European Fund IV, the compliance function and valuation and monitoring processes.
The findings of each report were presented by the internal audit team to the Committee who discussed their findings, recommendations for improvements and management responses.
Additionally, in March the Committee reviews and approves the programme of monitoring to be undertaken during the following fiscal year and at each of its subsequent meetings reviews the status and output of compliance monitoring actually undertaken relative to the planned programme.
During the year the Committee ensured appropriate monitoring was undertaken in accordance with the approved programme for the year and oversaw the appropriate resolution of any significant matters of concern identified.
The provisional scope of the internal audit programme for the next financial year has been agreed with the Committee.
It is designed to permit changes to the programme in the light of changed circumstances.
AMENDMENTS TO THE COMBINED CODE The Committee has considered the new requirements of the Combined Code in respect of a viability statement and reporting on the existing risk management framework and processes.
The viability statement was carefully considered by the Audit Committee and work has commenced to allow the Group to be in a position to make relevant risk related statements in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
