STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT WE FOCUS OUR WORK ON THE JUDGEMENTAL AREAS OF ACCOUNTING AND THE QUALITY OF THE GROUPS CONTROL ENVIRONMENT.
WE MONITOR NEW ACCOUNTING AND REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS, AND CONSIDER THEIR IMPACT ON THE GROUP.
WE PERFORM THIS WORK AGAINST A BACKDROP OF INCREASING GEOGRAPHICAL AND PRODUCT DIVERSITY IN LINE WITH OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
KEVIN PARRY CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE KEY ACHIEVEMENTS DURING THE YEAR Reviewed the process undertaken and judgements made by management in implementing the new accounting standard on consolidation Undertook a detailed review of the valuation of the portfolio Challenged the effectiveness and robustness of the external audit Established an internal audit function, led by a Head of Internal Audit, supported by co-source partners 58 59 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED accounting of businesses over which incumbent audit partner, who rotates DEAR SHAREHOLDER we have significant influence as off the engagement at this years AGM, I am pleased to report that the auditing investors or which are joint ventures.
are effective and that they have robust of the Group expanded in the year ended This has necessitated a detailed review processes for maintaining their objectivity 31 March 2015 by the establishment of an of our portfolio.
The inclusion of such and independence in accordance with internal audit function.
We appointed our businesses in the consolidated financial our and their procedures.
first Head of Internal Audit who reports statements makes those statements more directly to me in my capacity of Chairman Establishing an internal audit function complex.
The Committee challenged the Committee agreed the charter of the Audit Committee and following managements judgements, reviewing for the operation of Internal Audit: has a competitive tender two co-source the process for reaching entity by entity determined the scope of and reviewed service providers: KPMG and Baker conclusions and carefully considered the Tilly.
The internal audit work undertaken all of the work undertaken during the year: appropriateness of additional non-GAAP and approved the forward plan for the is summarised in a new fifth section of disclosures to assist understanding of the year ending 31 March 2016. this report.
Planning to be in a position to report The Group has expanded its investment Valuation of the portfolio and assessment next year on the effectiveness of the services during the year.
The Committee has of impairments the valuation of unquoted consequently focussed on the accounting risk management and internal control illiquid assets and any impairment requires systems, in accordance with the revised and control of risks associated with the considerable professional judgement.
broadened product range, consistent Consequently, the Committee undertakes with the Committees established focus on In the year ahead the Committee will a comprehensive review at each balance judgemental areas of accounting and the continue to monitor new accounting and sheet date challenging managements quality of the control environment.
regulatory developments, particularly as assessments based on established they impact the use of auditors for non The Audit Committee continues to work processes and a judgemental sample audit services, and consider the audit risks closely with the Risk Committee and the of direct file reviews.
This year the associated with the continued growth of Remuneration Committee throughout the assurance was enhanced by the work year with the aim of effectively covering the Group.
pertinent topics in the most suitable forum.
I would be pleased to discuss the Relationship with the external auditors Committees work with any shareholder.
From my perspective, the most important it is fundamental that our external auditors issues considered during the year were: are independent of management and Implementation of the new accounting provide robust challenge to the financial Kevin Parry standard on consolidation IFRS10 reporting and related disclosures.
Chairman of the Audit Committee the standard requires the full Based on our expanded enquiries and consolidation of businesses or funds enhanced reporting from Deloitte LLP, 21 May 2015 that we control as investors: or equity we are satisfied that Deloitte and the COMMITTEE MEMBERS IN THE YEAR ATTENDANCE The following pages set out the Audit A Committee report for financial year 2015.
A. KEVIN PARRY 4 4 B The report is structured in five parts: AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN C D 1.
Committee governance: roles B. PETER GIBBS 3 4 E and responsibilities, composition NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR and effectiveness C. KIM WAHL 3 4 2. Review of the year: the significant NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR financial reporting and auditing D. KATHRYN PURVES 2 2 issues we addressed NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 3.
Internal controls: the assessment E. LINDSEY MCMURRAY 1 2 of the adequacy of the NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR control framework 4.
External auditors: ensuring their Lindsey McMurray ceased to be a Director on 17 October 2014 independence, effectiveness and and was replaced by Kathryn Purves with effect from that date.
Internal audit: the establishment and commencement of activities.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS Reviewing and assessing the annual The Committee meets the external auditors COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE internal audit plan, receiving internal and Head of Internal Audit without On behalf of the Board, the Committee audit reports, monitoring managements management present twice a year to ensure encourages and seeks to safeguard high responsiveness to internal audit findings that they are receiving full cooperation from standards of integrity and conduct in and recommendations.
management, obtaining all the information financial reporting and internal control.
they require and are able to raise matters The Committee has fulfilled its directly with the Audit Committee if they ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES responsibilities during the year and consider it is desirable to do so.
confirms the Group is in compliance with The Committee meets regularly, at least four The Statutory Audit Services for Large times a year.
The terms of reference which EFFECTIVENESS Companies Market Investigation Mandatory are set out below are unchanged from last Use of Competitive Tender Processes The Committee reviews its terms of year except in respect of the Committees and Audit Committee Responsibilities reference and effectiveness annually.
duties relating to internal audit, as set out Order 2014.
The terms of reference are summarised in the ultimate and penultimate bullet points: above.
The 2014 effectiveness review Selecting and recommending the COMPOSITION identified that Audit Committee appointment and reappointment of the members would like more training on The Committee consists of independent external auditor, approving their terms market developments.
Special sessions Non Executive Directors only.
The current of reference and fees have commenced for all Non Executive members are Kevin Parry Chairman of the Directors.
The first such session was Reviewing the performance of the external Committee, Peter Gibbs, Kim Wahl and on global marketing encompassing auditor and ensuring the rotation of audit Kathryn Purves.
Lindsey McMurray was compliance requirements.
partner to an individual with relevant a member of the Committee up to the date experience and skills of her resignation from the Board.
The 2015 effectiveness review largely mirrored the comprehensive 2014 review Reviewing the independence and Biographical details can be found on pages to allow direct comparison of performance.
remuneration of the external auditor 50 and 51.
This year it encouraged narrative as well as and the relationship between audit The Committee members have a wide quantitative assessment.
It was completed and non audit work performed by the range of business and financial experience, by all Audit Committee members and regular external auditor including risk management, fund invited attendees.
The review included best Reviewing the annual and interim accounts management and investment, regulation practice questions.
The results confirmed before they are presented to the Board, and compliance, M&A, tax and international that the Committee continues to operate in particular addressing any significant business practices.
These skills enable the effectively, fulfils its terms of reference and issues arising from the audit: accounting Committee to fulfil its terms of reference receives reliable and trustworthy information policies and clarity of disclosures: in a robust and independent manner.
compliance with applicable accounting Kevin Parry, a Chartered Accountant, Reviewers commented on the need to and legal standards: and issues requiring was previously the Chief Financial Officer monitor closely the development of the significant judgement at Schroders plc, a managing partner at internal audit function.
Consequently, a KPMG and currently chairs two other audit Reviewing the provisioning policy for the formal review of Internal Audits committees.
The Board considers that he investment portfolio on a six monthly basis performance will take place in the latter part has recent and relevant financial experience of the next financial year.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial for the purposes of the Code.
In addition, members noted that the breadth statements of the Group, including its The Executive Directors and Chairman of work in this area had increased and that annual and half yearly reports, interim of the Board are not members of the sufficient time should be allowed to enable management statements and any other Committee but regularly attend meetings full consideration of the relevant issues.
formal announcement relating to its at the invitation of the Chairman of the financial performance Committee, together with Deloitte LLP, Approving the appointment or termination the Companys external auditor and the of the Head of Internal Audit, approving Head of Internal Audit.
the internal audit charter and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk management framework 60 61 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SUMMARY OF MEETINGS IN THE YEAR The Committee held four meetings during the year in line with the financial reporting dates.
In addition, in May 2015 there was one subCommittee meeting to review key aspects of the report and accounts.
The bulk of the Committees time has been spent on financial reporting policies and presentation, the valuation of investments and the external and internal audit arrangements.
REVIEW OF THE YEAR Over the course of the year, the Committee considered and discussed the following significant matters: THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION FINANCIAL REPORTING We concluded at the half year that the Group met The content of the annual, We reviewed all sections of the Annual Report having semi-annual and quarterly particular regard for the Committees specific responsibilities the definition of an investment entity and had appropriately prepared its interim financial statements financial reporting needs to for the financial statements.
We spent considerable time be appropriate, complying assessing the implications of IFRS10 Consolidated Financial on that basis.
Prior to the interim results, we reviewed with laws and regulation.
We reconsidered this conclusion following the see page 105 and the managements assessment as to whether the Group met publication of the amendment to the accounting the definition of an investment entity.
That determination Auditors report on pages standard and concluded that the Group no longer 106 to 110 determines the presentation of the consolidated financial met the definition of an investment entity.
We reviewed the Groups strategic objectives concluded that the Group did not control any to assess whether they were consistent with being an portfolio companies, exercised significant influence investment entity and considered whether the Group managed and controlled eight credit funds.
Accordingly the its investments on a fair value basis.
This was re-reviewed controlled entities have been consolidated into the following the interim results because an amendment to the Groups financial statements and the entities over accounting standard changed the definition of an investment which the Group exercises significant influence have entity.
We subsequently reviewed and challenged work been equity accounted.
undertaken to assess which third party funds and portfolio We concluded that the accounting policies see companies are either controlled by the Group or over which pages 119 to 123 are appropriate and, based on the Group exercises significant influence.
our enquiries of management and external auditors, We reviewed all accounting policies for continued are being properly applied.
We also concluded that appropriateness and consistency.
the areas of judgement see pages 123 and 124 are properly explained.
We gained comfort from financial management and the external auditors that the Group complied with reporting requirements.
Taken as a whole, the We held preparatory discussions with management to We received confirmation that individuals Annual Report needs determine the format of the Annual Report and then assigned responsibilities had been fulfilled and confirmed that to be fair, balanced and responsibilities for the content of the Annual Report and its the overall report was consistent with the Directors understandable so that overall cohesion and understandability.
This allowed the Audit Committee and the it is relevant to readers.
design and detailed content, ensuring that feedback on the Board to be satisfied that the Annual Report taken as see page 105 of the prior year Annual Report had been addressed and examples a whole is fair balanced and understandable.
Annual Report of best practice had been carefully considered in the context We will continue to monitor feedback for of the Group.
A late draft of the Report and Accounts was future enhancements.
reviewed by both the Audit Committee and the Board.
We used the Executive Directors, the external auditors and the Committees knowledge to determine the overall fairness, balance and understandability prior to final approval by the Board.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTINUED Investments represent We reviewed a detailed paper on the valuation process The Committee concurred with the valuations and did 78% of our total assets.
management have undertaken and the judgements made in not determine there was a need for any adjustment.
79% are carried at fair determining the value of the portfolio.
In addition to reliance value and 21% are carried on executive management procedures and the work of the at amortised cost.
As the auditors, the Committee continued its practice of a member assets are mainly unquoted of the Committee who is selected in rotation reviewing a and illiquid, considerable small judgemental sample of the investments including a file professional judgement review and challenge of management.
The review focused on is required in determining key assumptions, macro-economic factors and sponsorless their valuations and transaction monitoring.
The Committee accordingly gained associated provisions.
substantive evidence of the appropriateness of reliance on see notes 4 and 9 to the compliance with the Groups valuation procedures.
financial statements and the At the year end, the balance sheet also included an asset Auditors report on pages of 26.9m and a liability of 13.4m of derivatives not held 106 to 110 for hedging: and 14.2m of secondary private equity assets held via a fund structure.
These investments represent a diversification of the business into alternative credit and secondaries.
Accordingly, we reviewed a paper from executive management on the valuation methodologies.
Provisions are required We reviewed the Groups legal, tax and other exposures.
The Committee determined that in 2014, there for actual and potential For the 2014 Annual Report it was determined that the biggest remained uncertainty over the quantum of the EBT liabilities that cannot be judgements concerned tax and, in particular, a long standing settlement that it anticipated concluding with HMRC quantified accurately as employee taxation issue.
The issue affected former and and accordingly it was premature to amend existing to timing or quantum.
current employees and there was a risk of conflicts of interests estimates which were quantified in the notes to see note 10 of the arising.
Accordingly, the Chairmen of the Remuneration the financial statements.
Following settlement, the financial statements] and Audit Committees formed an ad hoc group to oversee Committee concluded that the financial impact of the the communications with HMRC and current and former settlement was appropriately disclosed in note 7 of employees based on professional advice and opinions.
The work allowed affected former and current employees Other changes in estimates of other provisions were to enter into a settlement agreement with HM Revenue and determined to be appropriate.
Customs and for the settlement to be properly quantified.
Revenue recognition and During the year, there was the early redemption of a major We concluded that revenue has been properly cash flows are not entirely fund, European Mezzanine Fund 2006 which increased income recognised in the financial statements.
aligned which can result in recognition in 2015.
We reviewed the income recognition of income being recognised performance fees carefully to ensure that the treatments were prematurely or too late.
consistent with the Groups accounting policies.
Additional see note 3 to the financial assurance on fairness was obtained from an internal audit statements and the Auditors review.
In FY15 all conditions relating to performance fees report on pages 106 to 110 had been met by the year end.
Non-GAAP measures The Group uses the following non-GAAP measures: We concluded that whilst the consolidation of credit aid understanding of the funds and equity accounting of some portfolio Total AUM financial statements but companies are required under IFRS10, the accounting Fee rate on new AUM must not detract from is inconsistent with the management of the investments Performance of investments GAAP measures.
and the way that credit agencies and Committees Return on equity see KPIs on pages 22 review the Group.
Accordingly, the non-GAAP We discussed the make-up of the non-GAAP measures and 23 measures assist important readers of the and reviewed consistency with prior years.
62 63 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTINUED The Group fails to comply During the year the Committee was advised that management The Group is highly focused on compliance with regulations to which had identified a breach in the level of regulatory capital within see Risk Committee report on pages 68 to 72. it is subject.
The breach had been advised Consequently, the Committee wished to determine to the regulator and immediately rectified.
the root cause of the failing whilst recognising that the Group had sufficient capital and the compliance KPMG was appointed to review the circumstances giving rise breach related to the allocation of capital between to the breach and to make recommendations for improvements Group companies.
in the systems and controls.
The Committee oversaw the scope, findings and recommendations of KPMGs review Steps including additional sign offs and training have been implemented to reduce the likelihood of a repeat and monitored the implementation of the actions taken by management in response to KPMGs recommendations.
EXTERNAL AUDIT The auditor needs to We reviewed the standing policies on services that can be We concluded that with only minor amendments, be independent of provided by Deloitte see External auditors on page 66 our policy remains appropriate and in line with management to report on for their continued appropriateness as to scope and fees.
the truth and fairness of We received confirmations from management and Deloitte We determined that the Group audit fee needed to the Annual Report without of adherence and agreed the fees paid.
We also reviewed the increase from 0.8m to 0.9m to reflect the increase conflicts of interest.
audit fees in the context of the size and complexity of the audit.
in scope and complexity of the work undertaken by see the Auditors report Deloitte.
This is in part due to the expansion of the on pages 106 to 110 business and in part due to the work surrounding new accounting standards.
The audit process needs We discussed the risks faced by the Group extensively with Having extended the scope of our review of Deloittes to be effective so that the Deloitte.
We determined that we had a shared understanding work, we are satisfied that the audit is effective and auditors opinion is robust.
see the Auditors report Whilst planning the audit, Deloitte set out for the Audit on pages 106 to 110 Committee the key tests that they would perform on the higher risk areas and the Committee was satisfied with the proposed scope.
The Committee requested detailed feedback on findings and discussed those findings prior to the approval of the Annual Report.
The Committee asked Deloitte whether the audit of ICG for 2014 had been independently quality reviewed either by the firm or by a regulator.
There has been no such review.
The Committee chairman, the CFO and the Group Financial Controller had an extended discussion with Deloitte about its approach to the audit of the financial statements and was satisfied based on the representations that the approach was directed to provide a reliable audit opinion with a reasonable expectation of detecting errors, irregularities and fraud.
The generic findings of the Audit Quality Review of Deloitte were reviewed for application to the Group.
For the first time, the Committee also received oral reports from subsidiary audit partners in Hong Kong and Sydney at the conclusion of their local audits.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION EXTERNAL AUDIT CONTINUED The audit is conducted We determined in conjunction with Deloitte that it is The audit materiality was set at approximately 1% to an appropriate level of appropriate to base materiality on 1% of net assets.
Further for of net assets equivalent to 14.4m 2014: 12m.
materiality to ensure that FMC, it was determined that materiality should be set at 5% of This is equivalent to 8.1% 2014: 7.6% of pre-tax there is strong comfort that Group pre-tax profits excluding capital gains and losses and profits.
As explained in the Auditors report on the financial statements impairments.
This is a change from the 2014 approach which page 106, a materiality of 4.4m, equating to 5% of are true and fair.
used a measure of 10% of normalised profits, being profit normalised profit before tax, has been used in FMC.
see the Auditors report before capital gains and losses and impairments.
The Committee considered this provides appropriate comfort as to the quantification of the robustness of on pages 106 to 110 The FY15 profit is overstated by 0.2m as a result of audit Deloittes audit opinion.
differences, which will not recur in FY16.
The Committee has deemed this amount immaterial.
Whilst the overall level of materiality was similar to the previous year, the Committee preferred the logic of the changed approach and its consistency with other similar companies.
INTERNAL AUDIT The establishment of an During the year the Committee considered and approved We are satisfied that the structure and resourcing of internal audit capability.
the formation of an internal audit function.
We consider that the plan see the Governance over an estimated three year period will cover the Following the establishment of the function the Committee framework on page 52 organisations key risks and has commenced work by considered and approved the Internal Audit Charter and focussing on the areas the Committee believes should Strategy, considering in detail compliance with the Internal be covered as a priority.
The Committee discussed the scope and findings of the reviews undertaken and is actively monitoring progress against agreed actions.
64 65 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In addition to the significant matters The Committee undertakes an annual EXTERNAL AUDITOR addressed above, the Committee maintained evaluation to assess the independence and Deloitte LLP has been the Companys a rolling agenda of items for its review objectivity of the external auditor and the external auditor since its commencement of including the capital strategy, financial effectiveness of the audit process, taking trading.
In accordance with professional and and treasury management capabilities, into consideration relevant professional and regulatory standards the lead audit partner the going concern concept of accounting regulatory requirements.
The assessment has changed regularly since that time to see page 100, the viability statement on focuses on quality of service and so aims safeguard the independence and objectivity page 36 and the Auditors report on pages to be broader than just reaching views on of the audit process.
The most recent audit 106 to 110, accounting developments and a particular audit.
This assessment is based partner rotation was in 2010 and the current the auditors management letter.
No issues on the results of questionnaires completed audit partners five year term ends at this of significance arose.
by the Committee members, the Executive years AGM.
We have been monitoring audit Directors and other relevant senior regulatory developments determined by INTERNAL CONTROLS management.
The results of the evaluation the FRC, Competition Commission and the were last reported to the Audit Committee Risk management and internal control EU.
These require us to change our audit in September 2014.
Having completed the matters are the responsibility of the firm by no later than after the 2020 year end.
review, and discussed its findings with the Groups Risk Committee.
Its report is set out Absent any major service or quality issues, auditors, the Committee remains content on pages 68 and 72.
The Audit Committee the desirability of a change of auditor is a with Deloittes work whilst identifying reviewed the competence and quantity of delicate balance between a fresh pair of some areas for service improvement the financial management resource and was eyes and accumulated knowledge applied including early discussion of the practical satisfied that the complement was able to to produce a robust audit.
Deloitte will applications of new accounting standards.
fulfil its first line of defence duties.
It was rotate their audit partner ahead of the The Audit Committee discussed the noted that projects often required external 2016 audit.
output with Deloitte and they have assured specialised resource.
David Barnes will succeed Calum Thomson the Committee they will seek to address The Group has an established control as our audit partner, and we are satisfied the areas where they can improve the framework as described on page 36. that he has the experience and industry service delivery.
The framework is designed to manage but knowledge to be the lead audit partner.
The Committee regularly monitors not eliminate risks and is designed to provide In good time for the 2020 year end the audit non audit services being provided to the reasonable but not absolute assurance will be tendered and rotated to another firm Group by its external auditor to ensure there against material losses or misstatements.
These plans will be kept under is no impairment to their independence The Group is expanding and this adds to annual review and if legislation changes, or objectivity.
Stringent procedures are in complexity and risk.
or there are any concerns as to Deloittes place to ensure that all significant non audit independence, the quality of their audit or With effect from 2015, the revised work performed by the auditor in excess the service levels, the audit tender might Combined Code expands the Boards of 50,000 is approved in advance by be undertaken sooner.
responsibilities for the management of risk.
Engagements are only This is addressed further in the report of approved if they do not and will not impair, the Risk Committee.
or appear to impair, the auditors judgement or independence.
The procedures set out the categories of non audit services which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, including those which are pre-approved by the Committee and those which require specific approval before they are contracted for, subject to fide minimis levels.
A copy of the policy can be found on the Groups website www.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS During the year the Group paid 0.3m The Audit Committee has agreed the INTERNAL AUDIT to Deloitte LLP for the provision of charter and strategy for the internal audit Last year, we reported that we would corporate non audit services.
Of this, function, the terms of business with the establish an internal audit function during 0.1m is in respect of services in their co-source providers: the necessary the course of the year ended 31 March capacity as auditor and 0.2m in the form resources and the scope of all audits.
We were keen to ensure that the of tax compliance and advisory services The duties of the Audit Committee itself have business embraced the formation of the not related to the audit of the financial broadened to encompass its responsibility function.
We selected an internal candidate statements.
These were provided by for internal audit.
For example, the internal to head the function who had previously Deloitte as they are judged to be a market auditor attends Audit Committee meetings at worked closely with the Audit Committee on leader in these areas, having a reputation which she presents findings, the Committee resolving the personal tax issues referred to for quality, and having a local presence monitors responses to internal audit findings above.
During that time she demonstrated in the countries in which the services and the Committee meets in private with the an ability to challenge management were performed.
Audit objectivity and Head of Internal Audit without management constructively and a strong knowledge of independence was safeguarded in these being present.
She is not a qualified auditor instances through the advice being During the year, four audits were performed: but in conjunction with co-sourcing third provided by partners and staff that have IT governance and key controls: compliance party internal auditors, we considered that no involvement in the audit of the financial framework and governance: a review of the we would be able to establish a strong statements.
The advice was not dependent European Mezzanine Fund 2006 transaction function.
Following a competitive tender, on a particular accounting treatment and for valuation and conflicts of interest: a review the Audit Committee selected two firms the outcome or consequences of the of the valuations and monitoring processes.
from which to source internal audit services: advice did not have a material effect on the RSM Baker Tilly LLP and KPMG LLP.
A programme of reviews for the next Groups financial statements.
No services Baker Tilly will typically undertake general financial year has been approved by the were provided pursuant to contingent audits with a UK bias and KPMG will typically Audit Committee which will be reviewed fee arrangements.
undertake specialist regulatory audits with on a quarterly basis for amendment due A detailed analysis of fees paid to Deloitte less of a UK bias.
Both firms are additionally to changed circumstances.
LLP is shown in note 11 on page 142. transferring internal audit knowledge to the Group.
Whilst the function is still less In addition Deloitte provides services to than one year old, initial indications are funds that are managed by the Group but that the arrangements are working well.
over which it does not exercise control.
The arrangements will be formally reviewed The fees paid by the Group to the auditors in the latter part of the next financial year.
are set out in note 11 to the financial statements.
The scope of the audit and Deloittes fee was negotiated and agreed by the Committee.
All non audit services were approved by the Committee.
EU audit legislation introduces certain restrictions on the provision of non audit services including a 70% non audit services fee cap.
The restrictions on non audit services will become effective two years from the date of entry into force of the regulation: as such, it is expected to be in force for the 2016 financial year.
The FRCs consultation period on the UK application of these rules closed at the end of March 2015.
We await the outcome of the consultation before determining what actions, if any, need to be undertaken.
