STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS OUR KEY RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS You can read more about the key resources and relationships that RESOURCES RELATIONSHIPS enable our business model to Investment management skills Third party investors function on page 44 Distribution capabilities Key finance counterparties Scalable infrastructure Regulators Deal sourcing networks Company owners and management WHY WE ARE DIFFERENT We have local teams and sector specialists These relationships have provided a AN ENVIABLE TRACK RECORD who speak the languages and understand significant number of both follow-on and The combination of our outstanding the dynamics of the markets in which they new investment opportunities for our funds.
investment track record over 26 years, operate.
These investment teams have Close monitoring of investments enables expanded product range and the support established our reputation as a trusted of a strong balance sheet are our significant us to identify risks within the portfolio at and experienced partner with innovative an early stage.
Our investment professionals differentiators when raising third party money.
Our investments are have experience in default situations and Our client relationships, enhanced by the tailored to provide a financing solution that in the recovery of investments which we presence of our own distribution team, have fits the cash flows of the underlying asset to use to maximise our returns from these continued to grow in breadth and depth, maximise value for our investors.
Our investment and monitoring with recent fundraisings having a more teams have built longstanding relationships processes have supported our outstanding geographically and institutionally diverse with local sponsors, banks, advisers and track record since inception, with our funds investor base.
Our dedicated marketing and management teams, providing deal flow and performing strongly against their peers.
distribution team are enabling us to build early access to investment opportunities.
stronger and broader relationships which A LONG TERM PERSPECTIVE support our strategic priority of growing AN ACTIVE APPROACH We support our investments over the long assets under management.
Post investment monitoring is a key focus term.
The availability of flexible capital, of both our investment teams and the both from our balance sheet and the funds, A STRONG INVESTMENT CULTURE Investment Committees.
Our investment supports sponsors and management in Our consistent, efficient and robust professionals and credit analysts are achieving profit and cash generation which investment culture across our products is responsible for attending management enables us to achieve outstanding returns based on disciplined investment processes, meetings, reviewing management data on realisation.
This has been the basis of our core credit principles and a strong focus and following industry trends.
long term success and enviable track record.
We typically seek Board attendance rights The realisation of our existing portfolio of Each investment opportunity is assessed from portfolio companies in our mezzanine investments not only generates cash returns on its own merits and in the context of the funds, currently attending over 80% of for existing investors, but also acts as a expected risk and return requirements of the Boards of our portfolio companies.
source of investment opportunities for new the fund.
We particularly consider limiting Board representation assists in effective funds.
The speed and flexibility with which the downside risk of the investment and portfolio management of illiquid assets as it we are able to complete these transactions the underlying focus is on generating provides access to management, additional is enhanced by our relationships with cash returns through the life of the asset.
insight into financial information and gives management and deep understanding Our investment strategy is underpinned the opportunity to build and strengthen of the investment.
