STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS BOARD EVALUATION During this financial year a number of the BOARD PERFORMANCE points raised in May 2014 were addressed.
In line with the effective governance These included the addition of a regular requirements of the Code, the Board update at each Board meeting from the reviews its own performance annually.
head of a different business unit: a detailed The assessment covers the effectiveness I FIND THIS BOARD Board strategy session, a review of matters and performance of the Board as a whole, delegated from the Board to the Risk TO HAVE A GOOD AND the functioning of the Executive Committee, Committee to ensure the Boards time is OPEN ATMOSPHERE.
an evaluation of individual Directors and spent effectively, and considering whether the effectiveness of the Board Committees.
THE DIRECTORS ARE to appoint a Chief Risk Officer.
The Non Executive Directors, led by the AN ENGAGED GROUP Senior Independent Director, and taking In 2013, the Board also employed the WITH A GOOD MIX OF services of an external independent third into account the views of Executive party for these purposes.
This considered Directors, are responsible for evaluating COMPETENCIES AND the effectiveness and performance of the the performance of the Chairman.
ALL CONTRIBUTE TO Board in relation to: Board composition, This exercise was carried out in both May 2014 CANDID DISCUSSIONS.
expertise and dynamics: time management and May 2015 and the feedback obtained and Board support: strategic oversight: was collated and presented to the Board KIM WAHL risk management and internal control: and for a detailed discussion.
Neither evaluation NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR succession planning and human resource identified any significant areas for concern management.
The independent Board and the Board is satisfied with its evaluation concluded that the Board was performance and that of its members, and effective in all areas.
also the performance of its Committees.
Certain points raised during this exercise ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION will be addressed at Board meetings during OF DIRECTORS the forthcoming financial year.
The Companys current Articles of Association provide that a Director Key conclusions and observations appointed by the Board shall retire at the from the May 2015 evaluation: Annual General Meeting following their appointment and that at each Annual The Board continues to General Meeting of the Company one third operate effectively of the Directors must retire by rotation.
The views of each member In addition to Kathryn Purves who will stand were openly communicated and for election as a Director appointed since appropriately taken into account the last Annual General Meeting the Board The results of the evaluation process has decided that, in accordance with the formed part of the Chairmans Code, each of the other Directors will retire appraisal of the overall effectiveness and stand for re-election at each years of the Board and its members, as Annual General Meeting.
well as part of the Non Executives In relation to the Directors who are standing assessment of the Chairman for election or re-election, the Chairman Additional specialist training in the is satisfied that, following the formal area of Audit and Risk should be made performance evaluation described above, available to Non Executive Directors each of the other Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to Reporting lines to Executive Directors should be considered to ensure that their role.
In the case of the Chairman, the Non Executive Directors are satisfied that he they have the appropriate number continues to be effective and demonstrates of people reporting to them commitment to his role.
The Audit Committee should conduct a review of the newly formed internal audit function during the year to ensure it is operating effectively 56 57
