46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT We are focused on strengthening our Board to take on the challenges and opportunities in our changing markets.
Dan OConnor Chairman Careful oversight Dear Shareholder, to keep committee membership and chairmanship As I referenced earlier in this report, 2015 was a mixed refreshed, Cathryn Riley succeeded Tony Hales as year for the Group.
We made excellent progress in Remuneration Committee Chair.
Tony will continue Mexico and the development of IPF Digital following the in his role as Senior Independent Director.
acquisition and integration of MCB Finance.
However, New additions to the Board during 2015 complemented increased competition and regulatory developments the existing talent and brought with them fresh have continued to have an impact on our home credit perspective and challenge, particularly in the areas of businesses, particularly in Europe.
Insight into the scope Recruitment and succession planning was high on the of the Boards activities, discussions and resulting actions Board and Committee agendas during the year and is provided on pages 48 and 49 of this report.
A number detail of the activity of the Nomination Committee is of robust discussions took place throughout the year on included on page 50.
Signifi cant changes to Board our execution issues, such as regulatory developments and Committee composition were made throughout and progress of the Transformation for Growth T4G 2015 and further changes have been implemented in programme, as well as performance against our targets.
Notably, following Christopher Rodrigues The signifi cant changes in legislation introduced in retirement in April, Nicholas Page retired from the Board in Poland and Slovakia during the second half of 2015 December 2015 after more than eight years on the Board.
occupied considerable time on the Board agenda Richard Moat succeeded him as Chairman of the Audit and the impact of these changes will have a material and Risk Committee in September 2015.
With effect from impact on the Group into 2016 and beyond.
January 2016, in line with good governance practice Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 47 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our approach to risk management and risk appetite in Among other things, the Remuneration Committee relation to IPF Digital remains a work in progress.
However, undertook a review of the executive remuneration we see a great opportunity in IPF Digital to enable us to framework to ensure that it remains sufficiently motivating become a more agile, innovative and entrepreneurial for management whilst at the same time reflecting the organisation.
As a Board, we need to respond to this and interests and concerns of shareholders and our evolved develop as the business continues to change.
Further detail of the activity of the Remuneration supported by the Audit and Risk Committee, spent time Committee is provided on pages 70 to 89 of this report.
discussing specific risks that are more pertinent to IPF Digital, including information security and cyber-risks.
Insight into these matters, as well as the other activities of the Audit and Risk Committee, is provided on pages 53 to 57 of this report.
Dan OConnor Chairman OUR GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT STRUCTURE Board Transformation Audit and Risk Disclosure Executive Nomination Remuneration for Growth Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsible for setting and communicating the strategy and ensuring the financial plan supports this strategy.
Responsible for ensuring the governance, risk and Risk Advisory control framework is adequate to respond Group appropriately to key internal and external risk factors.
Transformation Country Steering Group: Finance Management Team: Reputation and Group Loss Group Credit and Change Leadership and Product Regulation Prevention Committee Portfolio Team Development Committee Committee Management Committee Board Financial Transformation Risk Control and Credit Regulation Strategy Management Reporting Implementation CFO CFO CEO CEO CEO Treasury and Information Operational Reputation Loss Prevention Funding Technology CFO CEO CEO CEO CEO Group Governance Committee Key Risk Area Executive Risk Owner
