Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 53 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee was fully engaged in the acquisition of MCB Finance, and in responding to the signifi cant challenges which arose in the competitive and regulatory environments.
Richard Moat Chairman 2015 objectives 2015 achievements 2016 objectives Review effectiveness of IPF Digital was integrated into the Group Review the approach for new market entry and assurance activities.
The new market entry implementing the IFRS 9 business acquisition process was monitored throughout 2015 and accounting requirements.
will be formally reviewed by internal audit Review the progress of in 2016.
Monitor effectiveness enhancing the control of management of The effectiveness of the T4G programme environment for IPF Digital the T4G programme.
was reviewed by both second and third line and the management of assurance providers and development points new market entry processes.
Continue development of agreed to ensure the continued success of the assurance processes.
Review systems for customer this initiative.
service and complaints Review monitoring of the Assurance processes were reviewed in light management.
of the changing external environment and Review the organisations Review risks presented by the acquisition of MCB Finance.
approach to implementing organisational changes Competitive environment monitoring new products and sales stemming from the was reviewed and suggestions for delivery channels.
Continue development of Review systems for the The impact on fi eld controls as a result of structures in place to ensure prevention and detection new sales and service organisational design vigilant monitoring of legal of fraud.
implementation, including systems for the and regulatory developments.
Review the approach prevention and detection of fraud, were to current and potential presented.
Further updates will be provided regulatory changes.
The approach to managing legal compliance and forward planning was reviewed.
The recommendations are being monitored closely by the Committee.
Commitee members Richard Moat Chairman from 24 September 2015, previously member only Jayne Almond from 24 September 2015 Tony Hales Nicholas Page Chairman until 24 September 2015, member until 17 December 2015 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED review and approve the internal audit programme for OVERVIEW the year and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the delivery of their plan: and Membership Our Audit and Risk Committee comprises three nonkeep under review the Group Risk Register and executive directors and is chaired by Richard Moat, consider the most important risks facing the Group a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified and their mitigation.
Accountants, and who has relevant and recent experience for the purposes of the UK Corporate ACTIVITIES IN 2015 Governance Code the Code.
The Committee was chaired by Nicholas Page from 2007 until September Meetings 2015 and he was a member of the Committee until he The Committee met six times during the year: twice retired from the Board in December 2015.
Nicholas is to consider risk: three times to consider audit-related a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in matters: and once to consider both risk and England and Wales and also had the relevant and audit-related matters.
recent experience required by the Code.
Meetings related to risk are normally attended by all members Financial reporting of the Board.
The external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the The Committee reviewed and considered the Chief Financial Officer are invited to attend all meetings following areas in respect of financial reporting and senior members of the internal audit and risk and the preparation of the interim and annual functions attend relevant meetings.
Periodically, senior Financial Statements: management from across the Group are invited the appropriateness of accounting policies used: to present on specific aspects of the business.
The Committee also meets from time to time with the external compliance with external and internal financial auditor, without an executive director or member of the reporting standards and policies: Groups senior management being present, to discuss significant judgements made by management: the external audit process.
The Head of Internal Audit disclosures and presentations: and reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee, which whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements ensures his independence from the management and are fair, balanced and understandable.
This role was vacant between May 2015 and January 2016 due to a prolonged search In carrying this out, the Committee considered the work process.
During this period, the internal audit function and recommendations of management.
In addition, the was led by the Group Internal Audit Manager with Committee received reports from the external auditor setting support from the Chairman of the Committee and out its view on the accounting treatments and judgements the Chief Financial Officer.
The significant judgements considered by the Committee were: Committee responsibilities Impairment of receivables: the key area of judgement The objective of the Committee is to oversee the in respect of impairment provisions made against Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk customer receivables is the predictive accuracy of management procedures, together with the work statistical models used to estimate future customer performed by the external auditor and the internal default rates and expected future timing of cash flows audit function.
The main responsibilities are to: in respect of each portfolio.
At both the half year and monitor the Groups system of internal control, full year results, the Committee considered a paper including operational and compliance controls prepared by management summarising the work and risk management, and to perform an annual performed to test the continued predictive capacity review of their effectiveness: of these statistical models and to update them where appropriate.
The external auditor performed audit monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the procedures on impairment provisioning and Company and the formal announcements relating to the reported its findings to the Committee.
Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: Impairment of receivables in Slovakia: the recent provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual changes in legislation in Slovakia led to a decision to Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are stop issuing new loans and collect out the receivables fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the portfolio.
The key area of judgement was to assess the information necessary for shareholders to assess the impact of the decision to cease new lending and Groups performance, business model and strategy: collect out the portfolio and how employees, agents and customers would respond to this scenario.
The make recommendations to the Board, for the Board to Committee considered managements judgements put to shareholders in general meeting, in relation to the on the expected impact of this scenario.
The external appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor performed procedures on the judgements auditor and to approve its terms of appointment: made by management and assessed advice on the review and monitor the objectivity and independence legal and regulatory situation in relation to the business of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the ability to continue to collect outstanding balances.
external audit process, taking into consideration Revenue recognition: the judgement in respect of relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: revenue recognition is the methodology used to calculate Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 55 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 the effective interest rate.
The external auditor performed enhancements that are being adopted in this business, procedures to assess managements calculations and to bring this business in line with the control standards assumptions used to calculate the effective interest rate adopted by the broader Group.
and reported its findings to the Committee.
This included At the same time, the Committee monitored the search the appropriateness of the revenue recognition policies process that was undertaken for the appointment of a adopted for new loan products.
new Head of Internal Audit, and in the meantime, along Provision for uncertain tax positions: IPF operates in with the Chief Financial Officer, provided support to the multiple jurisdictions where the taxation treatment Group Internal Audit Manager.
of transactions is not always certain and, therefore, The Committee is supported in its work by the Risk management is required to make judgements, Advisory Group, which in 2015 comprised the Chairman, based on internal expertise and external advice, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief on the methodology to be adopted for providing for Commercial Officer and Group Legal Director, together uncertain tax positions.
The external auditor performed with other members of the senior leadership team.
The procedures to assess managements judgements Risk Advisory Group meets four times a year.
It reports and reported its findings to the Committee.
to the Audit and Risk Committee and considers the risk Deferred tax accounting: the key judgement in respect assessments and risk registers produced in each country, of IPFs deferred tax assets, which arise largely from timing and updates the Group Risk Register.
It also considers differences between the accounting and tax treatments areas of specific risk and particular issues.
of revenue and impairment transactions, is the extent to which the timing differences will reverse and a tax The Committee provides oversight and direction deduction will be obtained in future periods.
The external to the internal audit plan to ensure the plan provides auditor performed procedures to assess whether the independent assurance over the integrity of internal recognition of the deferred tax asset is appropriate controls and the operational governance framework.
In and reported its findings to the Committee.
addition, Deloitte LLP, our external auditor, communicated to the Committee any control deficiencies in the internal Regulation: the business is subject to regulatory scrutiny control environment observed as part of its audit in multiple jurisdictions and at times it is appropriate to procedures.
During the year, Deloitte did not make provision for potentially adverse rulings by these highlight any material control weaknesses.
The Committee received a report from the Group Legal Director outlining the various Internal audit regulatory and other similar issues and managements The opinion on the Groups internal control environment approach.
External audit discussed the matter with was provided by the Group Internal Audit Manager.
PwC the Group Legal Director, reviewed the external legal and KPMG were used to support specific thematic reviews advice and reported its findings to the Committee.
where specialist technical knowledge was required.
Acquisition accounting: IPF acquired MCB Finance During 2015, a series of planned internal audit reviews Group plc in February 2015.
The key area of judgement were undertaken in both field operations and head office in respect of the acquisition accounting was the environments.
These were split between basic assurance identification of intangibles and the associated fair reviews, covering core controls across the business as value of the assets acquired.
The external auditor defined in the Group Risk Register, and thematic reviews reviewed the judgement made by management, providing a deeper review of topics agreed between the together with the underlying data to support it.
Group Internal Audit Manager, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and management, including the Internal control and risk management items shown in the Internal audit table on page 56.
While the Board is responsible for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, the review The Committee tracks closely the status of issues raised of their effectiveness is delegated to the Committee.
During the year, the volume and It is recognised that any system can provide only age profile of outstanding control issues has remained reasonable and not absolute assurance against material within our appetite.
The Committee, with the Board The Internal Audit function has continued to monitor the in attendance, reviews and approves the Group Risk effectiveness of the overall operational governance and Register.
The Board then formally considers the register on oversight structure throughout 2015. a six monthly basis and approves risk appetite annually.
The internal control environments in place to mitigate the impact of each risk are monitored by the Committee on a regular basis, as are the principal actions being taken to improve them.
The Committee requests additional presentations on key business areas as necessary to supplement its understanding of control environments in place.
The areas covered by these in 2015 are referred to in the Training section on page 56.
The internal controls in relation to the preparation of consolidated Financial Statements are outlined on page 57.
In particular, the Committee has been focused on monitoring the control environment at IPF Digital, and the 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal audit Basic assurance Thematic reviews Branch level reviews Group covering one-third of branches Third party and contract management.
Management of administration, operational, People planning and development.
financial and loss prevention control and Legal compliance and forward planning.
Information security and business continuity.
Head office reviews IPF Digital operations.
Oversight of branch performance monitoring Management of field cash and fraud controls.
Transformation programme governance and Management of financial loss detection and assurance processes.
Implementation of the field-based organisational Management of financial control framework.
Management of the branch administration and Management of agent status risk.
The existence and effectiveness of the controls used to monitor and manage each of the Group key risks see pages 38 to 43.
External auditor effectiveness and independence Non-audit services carried Fee out by Deloitte in 2015 000 The Committee considered the external auditors assessment of the significant risks in the Groups Financial Taxation compliance services 109 Statements set out in its audit plan and approved the Other assurance services 40 scope of the external audit that addressed these Total 149 risks.
The Committee considered these risks and the associated work undertaken by the external auditor Audit tendering and auditor rotation when forming its judgement on the Financial Statements.
The Companys policy is to undertake a formal tendering The Committee monitored the effectiveness and conduct exercise of the audit contract at least once every ten of the external auditor by reviewing: years.
The last tender exercise was carried out in 2011 and resulted in the appointment of Deloitte in May of that experience and capabilities of the auditor and the year.
Deloitte has now been external auditor for almost calibre of the audit firm: five years and during this time the audit engagement the delivery of its audit work in accordance with the partner has been Stephen Williams.
The APB Ethical agreed plan: and Standard 3 Revised Long Association With The Audit the quality of its report and communications to Engagement requires the audit engagement partner the Committee.
to rotate after five years, unless the Committee decides that a degree of flexibility is necessary to safeguard the In order to confirm its independence, the external quality of the audit and the audit firm agrees, at which auditor issued a formal statement of independence point the audit engagement partner may continue in to the Committee.
In addition, the Committee ensured this position for an additional period of up to two years.
compliance with the Groups policy on the use of the The Committee has considered the rotation of the audit external auditor for non-audit work.
The key requirements engagement partner and has requested on the grounds of this policy are: of audit quality for Stephen Williams to lead the audit for the external auditor may not undertake certain a sixth time in 2016 before rotating to a suitably prohibited services including internal audit, information experienced partner at the AGM in 2017. technology, remuneration, recruitment, valuation or At its February 2016 meeting, the Committee general management consultancy: recommended the reappointment of Deloitte to the the internal audit function must approve all non-audit Board and its reappointment will be put to shareholders services: and at the 2016 AGM.
the Committee Chairman must approve any individual non-audit service over a specific fee level.
Training The Committee undertook a significant amount The Committee believes that the Group receives a of training during 2015.
This included presentations particular benefit from certain non-audit services where on key business areas such as: a detailed knowledge of its operations are important or where the auditor has very specific skills and experience.
organisational design of the field-based sales However, other large accountancy practices are also and service and loss prevention teams: used to provide services where appropriate.
During the management of product development and year, the non-audit services carried out by Deloitte were competition monitoring: as follows.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 57 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 the organisations approach to responsible lending: fraud prevention and detection measures within the organisation: the organisations approach and arrangements to manage whistleblowing: management of agent and development manager turnover: business continuity including the improvements made to enhance disaster recovery capabilities: and information security and the approach to addressing the ever increasing cyber-security risk.
This training was complemented by a visit to the Groups business in Hungary, which included visits to branches and discussions with the Hungarian management team.
Review of effectiveness of the internal controls On behalf of the Board, the Committee has monitored the Groups risk management and its framework of internal controls, including fi financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems throughout 2015 and performed a formal assessment of their effectiveness.
In addition, the Committee, where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy failings or weaknesses identifi ed from the monitoring activities or the review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signifi cant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout 2015 and up to 24 February 2016.
The Committee has also undertaken a review of its own effectiveness among its members, executive directors, management and external advisors and concluded that it continues to be effective.
Annual Report and Financial Statements The Committee reviewed and considered the Annual Report and Financial Statements in line with other information the Committee has considered throughout the course of the year.
It concluded and recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
