Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report As such the Company takes the view that the benefits to Introduction shareholders arising from the Directors long-term knowledge The Board of Directors is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has put in place a framework for and experience of these underlying assets and their management including their ongoing ability to review the corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment company.
performance of the Investment Adviser and other advisers outweighs the benefit of more frequent re-election being applied to all Directors.
Compliance with Corporate Governance Codes All companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock However, as detailed in the Board Tenure and Re-election Exchange are required to confirm their compliance with or section below as Mr Doreys tenure reached nine years in explain departures from the UK Corporate Governance August 2015, the Board determined that it would be Code issued in September 2014 the UK Code.
This appropriate that he offer himself for re-election on an annual requirement applies regardless of where the Company is basis.
Other Directors seeking re-election this year are detailed in The Company is a member of the Association of Investment the sections below.
The Financial Reporting Council acknowledges that the AIC Corporate Governance Code issued in February 2015 the AIC Code can assist The Board of Directors externally managed companies in meeting their obligations The Board of Directors currently consists of six Nonunder the UK Code in areas that are of specific relevance to Executive Directors, whose biographies, on pages 43 - 44, investment companies.
demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
The Guernsey Financial Services Commission has also confirmed that companies that report against the UK Code or The Board consists solely of Non-Executive Directors and is AIC Code are deemed to meet the Guernsey Code of chaired by Mr Dorey who is responsible for leadership of the Corporate Governance.
Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Mr Dorey met the independence criteria of the AIC Code and The AIC Code is available from the Association of UK Code upon appointment and has continued to meet this Investment Companies www.
The UK Code is condition throughout his term of service.
Mr Whittle was available from the Financial Reporting Council website appointed as Senior Independent Director on 31 December www.
2013 and as such, is an alternative point of contact for shareholders and he leads in matters where it is not The Company has complied throughout the year with all the appropriate for the Chairman to do so.
provisions of the AIC Code and as such also meets the requirements of the UK Code except to the extent highlighted For the purposes of the AIC Code Mr Frost is treated as not below.
In particular the Company notes the following being an Independent Director, due to his relationship with departures from the code for part or all of the year for the the Companys Investment Adviser.
In accordance with the reasons as set out below: AIC Code all other non-executives are independent of the Companys Investment Adviser.
The role of the Chief Executive and Executive Directors remuneration Board Tenure and Re-election As an investment company, most of the Companys day-toDirectors do not have service contracts.
Directors are day responsibilities are delegated to third parties.
The appointed under letters of appointment, copies of which are Company does not have any Executive Directors.
The UK available at the registered office of the Company.
The Board Codes two separate principles of setting out the considers its composition and succession planning on an responsibilities of the Chief Executive and disclosing the ongoing basis.
remuneration of executive directors Section 12 A.
2 of the UK Code are therefore not applicable.
In accordance with the UK Listing Authority Rules, Mr Frost will retire and stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Re-election of all Directors The Board notes that the AIC Code and UK Code suggest it In accordance with the AIC Code, when and if any Director has been in office or on re-election would at the end of that would be good practice for all Directors to be offered for reelection at regular intervals subject to continued satisfactory term of office have been in office for more than nine years performance.
In accordance with the Companys articles of the Company will consider further whether there is a risk that such a Director might reasonably be deemed to have lost incorporation, at least one third of the Independent Directors and Mr Frost treated for the purposes of the AIC Code as a independence through such long service.
Non-Independent Director will retire at each Annual General Mr Dorey has been a Board member since August 2006 and Meeting Principle 3 AIC Code.
The Company considers that putting forward all Independent Directors for re-election in August 2015 had served as a Board member for over nine years.
While the Board is confident that Mr Dorey remains annually as is recommended for FTSE350 companies under independent, he has agreed to offer himself for re-election on the AIC Code would not be in the best interests of shareholders, given the long-term nature of the Companys an annual basis until his intended retirement from the Board at the Companys 2018 AGM.
assets that benefit from a consistent approach across years both in terms of management and independent Board supervision.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 45 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Also, on a rotational basis, one third of the remaining Board Remuneration Directors retire and put themselves up for re-election at every The Nomination and Remuneration Committee considers AGM: Mrs Whittet will make herself available for re-election matters relating to the Directors remuneration, taking into at the 2016 AGM.
account benchmark information including taking into account fees paid to directors of comparable companies, Any Directors appointed to the Board since the previous although such a review does not necessarily result in any AGM also retire and stand for re-election.
Mr Le Poidevin changes to the fees paid and based upon the amount of was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 and will work performed by the Board members.
In 2015 no advice or therefore offer himself for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
services were provided by any external persons in respect of its consideration of Directors remuneration and no changes Taking the above into account Mr Dorey, Mr Frost, Mr Le were made to Board remuneration.
Poidevin and Mrs Whittet will all retire and stand for reelection at the 2016 AGM.
All fees payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by the Directors on the Companys affairs and the Directors Duties and Responsibilities responsibilities borne by the Directors and be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of a quality required to The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its run the Company successfully.
The Chairman of the Board is paid a higher fee in recognition of additional responsibilities, major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of as is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The responsibility: - Statutory obligations and public disclosure Chairmen of the Nomination and Remuneration, Management Engagement, and Investment Committees, - Approval of investment decisions respectively do not receive additional fees for these roles.
- Strategic matters and financial reporting - Board composition and accountability to shareholders There are no long-term incentive schemes provided by the - Risk assessment and management, including reporting, Company and no performance fees, or bonuses paid to compliance, monitoring, governance and control Directors.
Any changes to Directors remuneration are - Other matters having material effects on the Company considered at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
These reserved powers of the Board have been adopted by During the year, serving Directors were paid the following the Directors to demonstrate clearly the importance with emoluments: which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the 2015 2014 1 effectiveness of its actions.
Fees paid accrued Fees paid Director 2 The Board monitors the Companys share price and NAV 70,000 60,000 Rupert Dorey and regularly considers ways in which shareholder value 3 42,000 32,000 Giles Frost may be enhanced.
These may include implementing 4 60,000 50,000 John Whittle marketing and investor relations activities, appropriate 47,500 37,500 Claire Whittet management of share price premium discount and the 47,500 37,500 relative positioning and performance of the Company to its John Stares competitors.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding 5 - - John Le Poidevin the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps 1 Includes 10,000 fee payable to Board members with respect to the October 2015 for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription and Placing Programme, paid in January 2016. irregularities.
2 Mr Dorey became Chairman of the Board on 31 December 2013 for which he receives a higher fee.
3 Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, The emoluments for Mr Frost are paid to his employer Amber Infrastructure Limited, a related company of the Companys Investment Adviser.
seek independent professional advice on any matter that 4 Mr Whittle became Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on 31 December concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The 2013 for which he receives a higher fee.
5 Mr Le Poidevin was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016.
Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors Interests Directors on an ongoing basis and the Company has Directors, who held office at 31 December 2015, had the maintained appropriate cover throughout the period.
following interests in the shares of the Company: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 All new Directors receive introductory support and education Number of Number of about the infrastructure sector and the Company from the Ordinary Ordinary Investment Adviser on joining the Board and, in consultation 1 1 Director Shares Shares with the Chairman all Directors are entitled to receive other 2 Rupert Dorey 793,687 643,687 relevant ongoing training as necessary.
Giles Frost 448,745 298,745 3 John Whittle 52,198 40,256 Board Diversity 3 The Board is committed to maintaining the appropriate Claire Whittet 50,000 - balance of skills, gender, knowledge and experience among John Stares 75,000 - its members to ensure strong leadership of the Company.
4 John Le Poidevin N A N A When appointing Board members, its priority will always be 1 All shares are beneficially held.
based on merit, but will be influenced by the strong desire to 2 Shares owned by Mr Doreys spouse.
The Board currently has one Holds shares through a Retirement Annuity Trust Scheme.
4 Mr Le Poidevin was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 and had no interests female Director.
in the shares of the Company prior to his appointment.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 46 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report There have been no changes to any of the above holdings In December 2015, Mr Whittle was appointed as Director of between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
International Public Partnerships Lux 1 Sarl and International Public Partnerships Lux 2 Sarl.
The appointment is effective Mr Frost is also a Director of International Public from January 2016.
No Director fees have been accrued or Partnerships Lux 1 SARL a wholly-owned subsidiary paid for the year ended 31 December 2015. undertaking of the Company, and a director of a number of other companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has an investment, although he does not control or receive remuneration in relation to these entities.
Committees of the Board International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 47 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Committees of the Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Board has established four committees consisting of the The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is comprised independent Non-Executive Directors.
The responsibilities of of the full Board with the exception of Mr Frost as the Nonthese Committees are described below.
Terms of reference Independent Director, and is chaired by Mr Stares.
for each Committee have been approved by the Board and are available in full on the Companys website.
The Committee is formally charged by the Board to consider the structure, size, remuneration and composition of the Board.
It also oversees the appointment and re-appointment Audit and Risk Committee of directors, taking into account the expertise of the The Audit and Risk Committee is comprised of the full Board candidates and their independence see page 47 for more with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent detail on the Committee.
As part of its ongoing remit, the Nomination and Mr Whittle is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee undertook an evaluation of the Mr Stares has lead responsibility for Risk within that performance of the Board and Chairman.
As a consequence, the Company Chairman is a asked to provide written feedback regarding the performance member of the Audit and Risk Committee, which the Board of the Board as a whole and the Chairman set against a believes is appropriate as Mr Dorey brings significant range of best practice corporate governance criteria.
A report independent expertise in investment trusts and finance for of this feedback was considered by the Nomination and the benefit of that Committee.
No material issues were identified by the Directors regarding the performance of the The duties of the Audit and Risk Committee in discharging its Board and Chairman.
The Board notes that in accordance responsibilities are outlined in the Audit and Risk Committee with the Corporate Governance Code for FTSE 350 Report.
companies, the Company undertakes externally facilitated evaluation every three years.
The last external evaluation In respect of its risk management function, the Audit and was undertaken in 2014.
Risk Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Companys risk management framework including the As part of the Boards ongoing succession planning, ahead acquisition and disposal of assets, the valuation of assets of Mr Doreys planned retirement in 2018 and potential and ensuring that the risk management function of the anticipated changes in chairmanship roles of the existing Investment Adviser, Administrator and other third party Board at that time, the Nomination and Remuneration service providers are adequate and to seek assurance of the Committee were charged with recruiting an additional Board same.
More detail is provided within the Risk Report.
The Boards search for a suitable director canvased its advisers and other market participants for a list The Audit and Risk Committee were satisfied that the key of suitable candidates.
Given the high calibre of applicants risks that could impact the Company and its investments through this process the Board did not engage a search were effectively mitigated and reported upon and were consultancy.
The candidates were considered against broadly in line with those of Companys more relevant various criteria, notably the breadth of experience and industry peers.
background of the existing Directors to ensure that the new appointee both complemented and enhanced the skill set of Management Engagement Committee the existing Board while also being able to bring a fresh The Management Engagement Committee is comprised of perspective to Company business.
One-on-one meetings the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Nonbetween the shortlisted candidates and the Directors and Independent Director, and is chaired by Mrs Whittet.
The senior personnel at the Investment Adviser were conducted duties of the Management Engagement Committee in and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee discharging its responsibilities are outlined in the diagram on recommended the appointment of Mr Le Poidevin.
This page 47. recommendation was accepted and approved by the Board and Mr Le Poidevin was appointed to the Board on 1 January The Management Engagement Committee carries out its 2016. review of the Companys advisers through consideration of a number of objective and subjective criteria and through a Investment Committee review of the terms and conditions of the advisers The Investment Committee is comprised of the full Board appointments with the aim of evaluating performance, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent identifying any weaknesses and ensuring value for money for Director, and is chaired by Mr Dorey.
The Committee the Companys shareholders.
considers proposals relating to the acquisition and disposal of investments and, if thought fit, approve those proposals.
During the year the Management Engagement Committee Details of the transactions it invested in during the period are formally reviewed the performance of the Investment Adviser outlined on page 28 - 30 of the Strategic Report.
and other key service providers to the Company and no material weaknesses were identified.
Overall the Committee confirmed its satisfaction with the services and advice Board and Committee Meeting Attendance received.
The external evaluation of the Board referred to The full Board meets at least four times per year and in above also considered the effectiveness of the Boards addition there is regular contact between the Board, the relationship with the Companys advisers including the Investment Adviser, the Administrator and the Company Investment Adviser and concluded positively on the these Secretary.
The agenda and supporting papers are distributed relationships.
in advance of quarterly Board and Committee meetings to International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 48 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full The Directors have access to the advice and services of the discussion at the meetings.
Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it In addition, as part of its commitment to maintaining an active adheres to applicable legislation, rules and regulations under dialogue with investors, in May 2015 the Board was pleased Guernsey Law, the Guernsey Financial Services to meet with a number of investors and sell-side analysts at Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
an investor briefing in London.
The briefing provided attendees with an overview of current market conditions, Relationship with the Investment Adviser case studies on the Companys approach to investment and The Directors are responsible for the overall management asset management, current pipeline opportunities, and gave and direction of the affairs of the Company.
Under the investors the opportunity to meet members of the Board and Investment Advisory Agreement, Amber Fund Management the Investment Adviser.
Limited acts as Investment Adviser to the Company to review and monitor investments and to advise the Company in The table below lists Directors attendance at Board and relation to strategic management of the investment portfolio.
Committee meetings during the year, to the date of this Details of the Investment Advisers relationship with the report.
Company are provided on page 14 within the Strategic Report.
Relationship with Administrator and Company Secretary In accordance with its normal practice the Board continues to Heritage International Fund Managers Limited acts as Administrator and Company Secretary and is responsible to hold discussions relating to the future strategy of the Company with the Investment Adviser and regular formal and the Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
informal discussions are held on this subject.
The Directors The Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the Rules and Regulations of Guernsey confirm that they believe that it is in shareholders best interests to continue the appointment of Amber Fund Law, London Stock Exchange listing requirements, antimoney laundering regulations and observation of the Management Limited AFML as the Companys Investment Adviser.
Reserved Powers of the Board and in this respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
Management Investment Remuneration and Quarterly Ad-hoc Audit and Risk Engagement Committee Nomination Directors Board Board Committee Committee Committee 6 5 1 10 2 Maximum number.
4 10 2 Rupert Dorey 4 6 5 1 1 N A N A Giles Frost 4 1 N A N A 10 2 John Whittle 4 5 5 1 9 2 Claire Whittet 4 4 5 1 9 2 John Stares 4 5 5 1 2 John Le Poidevin N A N A N A N A N A N A 1 Mr Frost is not a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, Management Engagement Committee or Investment Committee.
Mr Frost does not attend Ad-hoc Board Meetings as a Director where recommendations from the Investment Adviser are under consideration.
2 Mr Le Poidevin was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 and as such did not attend any meetings during 2015. International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 49 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report - Individuals with material direct or indirect economic Making New Investments interests in the relevant assets will not participate in As outlined above the Investment Committee, comprised only of independent Directors of the Company, make Buyside Committee and Sellside Committee discussions regarding the relevant assets investment decisions with respect to new investments after reviewing recommendations made by the Companys - A requirement that the financial statements, policies and Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser has a detailed records of any such asset offered to the Company be compliant with the Companys accounting policies and set of procedures and approval processes in relation to the recommendation of new investments to the Board.
procedures It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the The acquisition of all assets, including those from any Investment Adviser.
It is likely that some of these associate of the Investment Adviser is considered and approved in advance by the Investment Committee.
In investments will have been originated and developed by, and in certain cases may be acquired from other members of the considering any such acquisition, the Committee will, as it Investment Advisers group.
Where that is the case the deems necessary, review and ask questions of the Buyside Committee of the Investment Adviser and the Groups other conflicts management process summarised below is followed.
advisers and the acquisition will be approved by the Committee on the basis of this advice.
The purpose of these procedures is to ensure that the terms upon which any Managing Conflicts of Interest investment is acquired from a member of the Amber group is The Company has established detailed procedures to deal on an arms length basis.
with conflicts of interest that may arise on investments acquired from the Investment Advisers group, and manage Risk Management and Internal Controls conduct in respect of any such acquisitions.
As previously The Board is responsible for overall risk management with mentioned, the Companys Board has a majority of delegation provided to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The independent members and a Chairman who is independent system of risk management and internal control has been of the Investment Adviser.
Each Director is required to designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of interest to meet the business objectives.
Regard is given to the prior to Board discussions.
materiality of relevant risks and therefore the system of The potential conflicts of interest that may arise include when internal control cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
an Amber entity is an existing investor in the target entity while an associated company, AFML, acts on the buyside This process is outlined in further detail in the Risk Report as Investment Adviser to the Company.
The Investment found on page 35.
Advisory Agreement contains procedures with the intention of ensuring that the terms on which the vendors of such assets dispose of their assets are fair and reasonable to the Relations with Shareholders vendors: and on the buyside the Company as Investment The Board welcomes shareholders views and places great Adviser must be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the importance on communication with shareholders.
It has terms for and the price of the acquisition.
responsibility for communication with the investor base and is directly involved in major communications and Key features of these procedures include: announcements.
- The creation of separate committees representing the interests of the vendors on the one hand the Sellside The Board receives regular reports on the views of Committee and the Company on the other the Buyside shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors, Committee, to ensure arms length recommendation including the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination and approval processes.
The membership of each Committee, are available to meet shareholders as required.
committee is restricted in such a way as to ensure its independence and to minimise conflicts of interest arising In addition to more formal investor events, such as the - A requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct and Investor Briefing mentioned on page 49 above and Results report to the Company on an independent due diligence Presentations, the Investment Adviser conducts the day-toprocess on the assets proposed to be acquired prior to day investor relations activities for the Company.
It meets making an offer with major shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the - A requirement for any offer made for the assets to be Board on these meetings.
During 2015 the Investment supported by advice on the fair market value for the Adviser and members of the Board held formal meetings with transaction from an independent expert around 100 individual shareholders in addition to day-to-day - The establishment of information barriers between the interaction, including calls and other forms of correspondence.
The Board is also informed on a regular Buyside and Sellside Committees to ensure information is kept confidential to one or the other side basis of all relevant market commentary on the Company by - The provision of a release letter to each employee of the the Investment Adviser, Administrator and the Companys Broker.
relevant associate of the Investment Adviser who is a member of the Buyside and Sellside Committees.
The release letter confirms that the employee shall be treated The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company as not being bound by his her duties as an employee to provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss the extent that such duties conflict with any actions or issues with the Directors and with the Investment Adviser of the Company.
It is the Boards policy to publish the results of decisions which are in the employees reasonable opinion necessary for him her to carry out as a member the voting at the AGM via RNS at the completion of the of the Buyside Committee or Sellside Committee meeting.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 50 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Focus Project: To promote a clear understanding of the Company, its Thames Tideway Tunnel Tideway, UK - Tideway is a objectives and financial results, the Board aims to ensure major new development under the Thames River in London.
that information relating to the Company is disclosed in a Tideway is committed to be a responsible business, a good timely manner.
The Company has an investor relations neighbour and to give back to local communities as part of section on its website delivering a lasting legacy for London.
com where it makes began to widen in 2015 as it prepared for the start of available all its publicly disclosed documents including construction in 2016.
Annual Reports and RNS announcements together with The beginning of 2015 marked the first full year of additional background information on its assets and Thames River Watch, a pioneering citizen science corporate practices.
Investors can register to receive project to monitor the heath of the river.
Funded by notification via email of RNS announcements the Company Tideway and run by environmental charity Thames 21, it issues.
The Board encourages investors to utilise this useful measures water quality, quantity and types of litter, and online resource.
the spread of invasive non-native species.
The data collected aims to raise awareness of the threats facing Any shareholder issues of concern including on corporate the Thames.
The water quality results for year one governance or strategy can be addressed in writing to the showed coliform bacteria was in the majority of samples, Company at its registered office address see back cover.
a key sign of the pollution from sewer overflows that will be drastically reduced by the tunnel.
Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility As more staff joined the project, Tideway became the first company outside the financial industry to launch a Returners programme to help professionals back into Introduction work after a career break.
Working with Women The Company is committed to its responsibility to the environment and having a positive role in the local and global Returners, who help professional women re-launch their careers, the project offered twelve-week paid community in which it operates.
The Company encourages assignments for professionals who have been out of the high standards in sustainability through an integrated approach to managing and influencing our indirect workforce for two years or more.
As a result of the programme, seven 'returners' landed roles with the environmental and social impacts.
The Company recognises project, which included opportunities in business the value of active management in delivering quality planning, legal, stakeholder engagement, operations services, risk management and resource efficiency.
management, asset management and financial The Companys most material impacts are indirect, relating modelling.
to the environmental and social performance of the One of the highlights of our community programme was construction and operation of the buildings and infrastructure the Row4Results partnership with London Youth Rowing, which make up its portfolio.
Additionally, it recognises the a schools project that aims to establish an indoor rowing importance of managing its relationship with its Investment programme and competition across London boroughs Adviser and associated asset management operations that border the River Thames.
The scheme forms part of including the energy and resources used within its operations Tideways efforts to encourage young people to and their contribution to the local and global community.
reconnect with the river and take advantage of the leisure opportunities it provides.
In July 2015 Kingsford School The Company's Investment Adviser focuses on sustainability from Newham were presented with the Row4Results trophy in the presence of the Duke of Edinburgh after commitments, both within its operations and through the management of the projects and assets within the they retained their title.
The Investment Adviser operates a Sustainability Policy which looks beyond legislative and Other project highlights regulatory requirements to promote best practice and German Ministry of Education and Research BMBF, continual improvement in environmental management and Germany - The project was awarded Gold Status for the social responsibility.
Evaluation Scheme for Sustainable Construction of Federal Buildings in Germany by the German Federal Ministry of The Investment Adviser is certified to The Planet Mark and is Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear committed to measuring and reducing its carbon footprint Safety.
It also supports best practice in responsible investment.
Pforzheim Schools, Germany - The project was designed for resource efficiency, cost effectiveness and sustainability over The Company sees its key sustainability stakeholders as its the concession term.
Since the commencement of operations Investment Adviser and its employees, and the service in 2008 the innovative low energy heating, cooling and providers it works with to deliver and manage infrastructure ventilation system has resulted in significant savings for the projects.
As a result, the Company encourages its partners public sector.
to report on sustainability performance.
Durham Schools, UK - Two combined heat and power plants Many investment entities in which the Company holds operate to serve two secondary and one primary school.
investments achieve high standards in sustainability, Pure plant oil verified as being obtained from sustainable including building certifications such as BREEAM, LEED and sources is used as the fuel source.
Surplus electricity that is Green Star.
not used is fed back into the national electricity grid.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 51 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report South Tyneside and Gateshead Schools, UK - Rainwater harvesting is operational and the water re-used within the building with ground water being directed into a lagoon where plant and insect life has developed.
Moray Schools, UK - Elgin Academy, situated at the base of the Cairngorm Mountains is designed in a unique shape providing protection within the inner playground courtyard from the elements whilst helping to retain heat within the school.
Despite harsh conditions utility savings of 10% have been achieved with a gain share for using less than the target consumption of utilities.
Highfields Pennfields Schools, UK - The project incorporates a renewable combined heat and power unit CHP which meets 62-67% of the schools total energy requirements and saves 620 tonnes per annum in carbon emissions.
The CHP unit is fuelled by sustainable rapeseed oil that is cultivated and crushed in the UK and generates both renewable heat and power for the schools.
Excess green electrical energy is supplied onto the grid network benefiting both the schools and the associated local authority.
Derby Courts, UK - Energy saving initiatives have included the fitting of LED lights to the office area together with passive infrared sensors in all retiring and interview rooms.
The facilities are utilised to provide a venue for the Courts Magistrates Court Mock Trial competition, held in conjunction with Derbyshire Secondary Schools, which aims to introduce the legal system to young people in an innovative and exciting way, giving them the opportunity to gain hands on experience.
Northampton Schools, UK - The Project Company, through its designers and contractors has worked with Northamptonshire County Council and the Building Research Establishment to optimise systems and introduce energy efficient and low carbon technologies to the construction of new classrooms at eleven of the project sites.
An apprenticeship programme has seen three Apprentices taken on with commitment to award two apprenticeships and one graduate place in 2015.
Locally 50% of orders are with suppliers and subcontractors based in Northamptonshire and a minimum of 13 days of free time will be given under the Give a Day of Your Time programme.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 52
