Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report The Audit and Risk Committee the Committee is an approval of critical accounting policies: consideration of the essential part of the Companys governance framework to appropriateness of significant judgements and estimates: which the Board has delegated oversight of the Companys and advising the Board as to their views on whether the financial reporting, internal controls, compliance and external Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, audit.
I have set out below an overview of the work of the are fair, balanced and understandable.
Committee and details of how we have discharged our duties during the year.
We considered the most significant accounting judgements exercised in preparing the financial statements continued to The terms of reference for the Committee, together with be: the application of investment entity amendments as details of the standard business considered by the required by IFRS 10 Applying the Consolidation Exemption : Committee, have been approved by the Board and are and the basis for determining the fair value of the Companys available on the Companys website.
- Investment entity and service entities accounting Committee Meetings considerations Our Committee meetings were attended by the Investment A company which qualifies as an investment entity in Adviser and Administrator by invitation during the year.
A accordance with IFRS 10 is required to prepare financial representative of the Companys external Auditors, Ernst and statements on an investment basis, that is carry underlying Young LLP EY, also attended those meetings at which the investments including controlled, jointly controlled or entities financial reporting planning and the Annual Report and over which it has significant influence in its accounts at fair Financial Statements and Half-yearly Financial Report were value.
Service entities that provide services in connection with the All of the Committees members are considered to be investment entitys activities but that are not themselves appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, having investment entities under IFRS 10 continue to be significant, recent and relevant financial experience in line consolidated within the investment entitys group accounts with the AIC Code.
Biographies of the Committee members rather than accounted for at fair value.
We considered reports from the Investment Adviser setting Committee Agenda out the basis on which the Company continues to meet the Our Committees agenda during the year included: investment entity definition and certain subsidiary entities - Review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements continue to meet the service entity definition of IFRS 10 but and Half-yearly Financial Report and matters raised by are not themselves investment entities, and agreed this with management and external Auditors including significant the Companys Auditors.
We accordingly recommended that financial reporting judgements therein the Board approve the financial statements on this basis i. e. - Review of the appropriateness of the Companys that investment entities are accounted for at fair value and accounting policies service entities are consolidated.
Further details on the - Review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal application of investment entity amendments and service control systems entity considerations are detailed in note 1 to the financial - Review of the effectiveness, objectivity and statements.
independence of the external Auditors and the terms of engagement, cost effectiveness and the scope of the - Fair Value of Investments audit The Companys investments are typically in unlisted - Approving the external Auditors plan for the current year securities, hence market prices for such investments are not end typically readily available.
Instead the Company uses a - Review of the policy on the provision of non-audit discounted cash flow methodology and benchmarks to services by the external Auditor market comparables to derive the Directors valuation of - Consideration and challenge of the draft valuation of the investments.
Companys investments prepared by the Investment Adviser and recommendations made to the Board on the This methodology requires a series of judgements to be appropriateness of the valuation made as explained in note 12 to the financial statements.
- Review of the Companys risk profile, specific risks and mitigation practices The valuation process and methodology were discussed with - Review of the Companys exposure to cybercrime risks the Investment Adviser regularly during the year and with the Auditor as part of the year-end audit planning and interim Key activities considered during the year review processes.
We challenged the Investment Adviser on We undertook the following activities in discharging our the year-end fair value of investments as part of our responsibilities during the year: consideration of the audited financial statements.
Financial reporting During the period, we reviewed the Investment Advisers The Committee reviewed the Companys Annual Report and quarterly valuation reports, reports on the performance of the Financial Statements, the Half-yearly Financial Report and underlying assets and the Investment Advisers assessment interim management statements prior to approval by the of macroeconomic assumptions.
The Investment Adviser Board and advised the Board with respect to meeting the confirmed that the valuation methodology has been applied Companys financial reporting obligations.
We reviewed the consistently with the prior years.
We also reviewed and Companys accounting policies and practices, including: International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 53 Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued challenged the valuation assumptions discount rates, by an external auditor includes formal reporting for deposit rates, foreign exchange rates, inflation rates and tax shareholders, regulatory assurance reports and work in rates.
The external Auditor explained the results of their review of Under the policy there is a specific list of services for which the valuations, including their assessment of managements the external Auditor cannot be engaged as we consider that underlying cash flow projections and assumptions: the provision of such services would impact their macroeconomic assumptions: and discount rate independence.
Any potential services to be provided by the methodology and output.
On the basis of their audit work the external Auditor that have an expected value of up to Auditor confirmed no material adjustments were proposed.
50,000 and which are not prohibited by the policy must be pre-approved by the Chairman of the Committee: any The Committee, having considered the major assumptions services above this require pre-approval by the full Audit and applied especially on larger investments, recommended their Risk Committee.
Non-audit fees represented 11.0% of total audit fees, Revenue recognition reflecting the relatively low level of non-audit work The Audit and Risk Committee have considered the risk of conducted.
inappropriate accounting recognition of revenue to be a relatively low risk given the nature of the Companys EY undertook its standard independence and objectivity activities.
procedures in relation to non-audit engagements and confirmed compliance with these to the Committee.
Further Internal controls over financial reporting details on the amounts of non-audit fees paid to EY are set out in note 8 to the financial statements.
These were The Committee satisfied itself that the system of internal control and compliance over financial reporting was effective, reported to us and were considered not to be significant as to risk impacting the objectivity and independence of EY through consideration of regular reports from the Investment Adviser and Administrator.
- Audit Tendering and tenure We also considered the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff in the finance function The Committee considers the reappointment of the external Auditor, including rotation of the audit partner.
The external and had direct access and independent discussions with the Auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for external Auditor during the course of the year.
the Group audit every five years and the year to 31 December 2015 will be the last year for the current lead audit Fair, Balanced and Understandable partner.
We have challenged EY on its process to transition We reviewed the Companys 2015 Annual Report and to a new lead audit partner and are satisfied with progress to Financial Statements and advised the Board that, in our date and with the level of continuity of other key audit team opinion, the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken members.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to assess the Companys In October 2010, the Company put out to full tender the performance, operating model and strategy.
audits of the group and its controlled investee entities.
In addition to complying with good practice and satisfying new Cybercrime review corporate governance requirements, the tender enabled the As part of the Companys rolling annual controls and Board to benchmark competitiveness and value for money.
processes review, an independent assessment of Following the tender, EY were appointed Auditor of the Companys exposure to cybercrime is in progress.
Viability assessment As part of our annual review of the objectivity and During 2015, we carried out a robust assessment of the key effectiveness of the audit, the Committee conducted an in risks faced by the Company with a view to identify risks depth review of their performance.
There were no matters which may impact the Companys viability.
Detailed stress arising from the review in the current year, which require the tests, including impact assessment on the Companys service to be tendered immediately.
forecasted cash flows, showed significant resilience in the Companys ability to remain viable.
The results of the risk During the year, we reviewed the competitiveness and assessment process are detailed in the Viability Statement performance of the Auditor across the group and this led to a on page 42. small number of changes in auditor at subsidiaries to KPMG LLP.
External Auditor We recommended to the Board the scope and terms of In accordance with the relevant Corporate Governance Code engagement of the external Auditor.
We considered Auditor principles the Committee will continue to review the objectivity and independence, audit tenure and audit effectiveness of the external Auditor and seek to retender in tendering and Auditor effectiveness as detailed below: line with best practice.
- Objectivity and independence - Review of Auditor effectiveness In assessing the objectivity of the Auditor, we considered the For the year ended 31 December 2015 we reviewed the terms under which the external Auditor may be appointed to effectiveness and independence of the external perform non-audit services.
Work expected to be completed Auditor.
This was facilitated through the completion of a International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 54 Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued questionnaire by relevant stakeholders including members with respect to those assets.
The Company continues of the Committee and senior members of the Investment compliance with the legislation and is registered with IRS.
Advisers finance team, review and challenge of the audit plan for consistency with the Companys financial statement - Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive AIFMD risks, and review of the audit findings report.
The Company is deemed to be an internally managed nonEU fund.
An internally managed non-EU fund is outside the full scope of AIFMD and is the subject of lighter AIFMD - Review of Auditors remuneration Following the end of a four year fixed scope fee arrangement requirements at the point of marketing within the EU.
The negotiated at the time of last audit tender in 2010, the Company registered as a non-EU AIF with FCA in 2014 and Committee carried out a fresh review of the proposed audit commenced quarterly reporting from 31 December 2014. fees for 2015.
This resulted in an increase at the group level driven by changes in the underlying accounting standards, Focus for 2016 higher audit regulatory requirements, changes to scope of In addition to our routine matters and continued monitoring of work being carried out and general cost inflation.
This was areas above, the Committee will select a new process for an partially mitigated through reductions in fees of underlying independent review in 2016 as part of the Companys annual investee entities consolidated subsidiary entities, including internal controls and procedures rolling review program.
a number that, following a benchmarking exercise, will be audited for the first time by KPMG LLP.
We consider the The Committee will also review compliance with new audit fees for 2015 to be cost effective and present good regulations such as Common Reporting Standards and value for money for the Companys shareholders.
continue to monitor ongoing tax and regulatory developments such as Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.
Regulatory environment We received regular reports from the Administrator and Investment Adviser on regulation and regulatory developments.
- Common Reporting Standard In recent years, governments have become much more aware of the large amounts of undisclosed wealth held in offshore accounts.
Governments see an opportunity to boost John Whittle revenue by collecting tax relating to these accounts.
23 March 2016 Implementation of Common Reporting Standard CRS is a Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee step in that direction.
All qualifying entities are required to comply with the requirements of CRS from 2016.
The Company through its registrar Capita has appropriate systems and procedures in place to comply with these regulations.
We will continue to review compliance with these rules as the staged implementation continues throughout 2016.
- Retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules came into force on 1 January 2014 relating to the restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes and close substitutes came into effect.
The Company continues to confirm that its shares will qualify as an 'excluded security' under these rules and will therefore be excluded from the FCA's restrictions which apply to nonmainstream pooled investment products.
As such, the Company's shares can continue to be recommended by independent financial advisers IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCA's rules.
The Company is advised that the basis of being excluded from these restrictions is principally due to the Company conducting its affairs in such a manner that it would have qualified for approval by HMRC as an investment that had been resident in the UK in its previous accounting periods.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so that this remains the case for the foreseeable future.
- Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA The legislation is aimed at determining the ownership of US assets in foreign accounts and improving US Tax compliance International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 55
