Risk management and corporate governance Compliance continued The new regime will come into force on Thesectoralsanctions imposed by the 7March 2016.
US and the EU on the Russian financial, energy and defence sectors will continue Structural banking reform to be a challenge for firms as they attempt to comply with increasingly complex rules The Banking Reform Act received Royal and expanding lists of banned individuals Assent on 18 December 2013 and gave and businesses.
This, together with the UK authorities the powers to implement developments around the EU fourth money key recommendations of the Independent laundering directive, will become a focus for Commission on Banking ICB on banking Investec Bank plc.
reform, including ring-fencing of UK retail banking activities of a universal bank into a Tax reporting legally distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity within the To combat tax evasion by US tax residents same group.
using offshore accounts and investments, the US has enacted the Foreign Account Ring-fencing was a key area of strategic Tax Compliance Act FATCA which has focus during the period for the largest UK a global impact on firms.
The Banking Reform Act contains a financial institutions outside the US are fide minimis exemption from the requirement required to report specific information to ring-fence, which is relevant to all but on their US customers to the US tax the largest UK deposit takers.
Investec authorities, the Internal Revenue Service falls within this fide minimis exemption and IRS.
Failure to meet the reporting is therefore out of scope from the ringobligations under FATCA would result fencingrequirement.
in a 30% withholding tax on financial institutions.
The UK, along with a number Changes to regulatory of other countries, has entered into an landscape in the UK intergovernmental agreement with the US whereby the information will be passed over On 1 April 2014 the FCA took over the regulation and supervision of consumer to the UK tax authorities who will then deal with theIRS.
credit from the Office of Fair Trading.
At the same time the newly established Competition and Markets Authority assumed responsibility for wider consumer protection and promotion of competition.
The Payment Systems Regulator was created on 1 April 2014 and became fully operational on 1 April 2015.
The PSR is a competition-focused, economic regulator for domestic retail payment systems in the UK.
It aims to promote innovation and ensure that payment systems are operated and developed in a way that promotes the interests of all the businesses and consumers that utilise them.
Financial crime 3 3 Financial crime continues to be a regulatory focus with regulators globally encouraging firms to adopt a dynamic approach to the management of risk and to increase efforts around systems and controls to combat both money laundering and bribery and corruption.
In particular, the UK government published its first UK National AntiCorruption Plan in December 2014, thereby indicating its intent to tie in anti-corruption with its efforts to strengthen the governance of banks and conduct in financial markets.
The last year also saw the advent of a new type of targeted international sanctions in the midst of the Ukraine crisis.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 115 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance This section provides a summary of our UK and South Africa before adopting the corporate governance philosophy and appropriate standard for the group which Sound corporate also complies with requirements in both practices.
A more detailed review is governance is provided in Investecs 2015 integrated jurisdictions.
All international business implicit in our units operate in accordance with the annual report.
above determined corporate governance values, culture, principles, in addition to those of their Chairmans introduction processes, jurisdiction, but with clear adherence at all times to group values and culture.
functions and Dear Shareholder The board, management and employees organisational It is pleasing to present the 2015 of Investec are committed to complying annual corporate governance report structure with the disclosure, transparency and which sets out Investecs approach to listing rules of the United Kingdom Listing corporategovernance.
Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE Continuing and embedding our structured Listings Requirements the UK Corporate board refreshment programme has been Governance Code the Code which was a particular area of focus over the past issued by the UKs Financial Reporting year.
It is pleasing that a thorough selection Council in 2010, revised in September2012 process, overseen by the nominations with the most recent version being anddirectors affairs committee NOMDAC published in September 2014 for reporting has led to the appointment of five periods commencing after 1 October2014, independent non-executive directors, and the King Code of Governance bringing further diversity of background, Principles for South Africa King III.
skills and experience to the board.
Therefore, all stakeholders are assured The last year also saw Sir David Prosser that we are being managed ethically and stepping down as joint chairman of in compliance with the latest legislation, the board.
The transition from a joint regulations and best practices.
chairmanship to a sole chairman has been The past year in focus a smooth one due, in no small part, to the invaluable role Sir David played in chairing Sir David Prosser the board and supporting me during Sir David decided in 2014 that it would be thistime.
an appropriate time for him to retire and therefore stepped down from the board Our culture and values following the annual general meetings of Our culture, values and philosophies Investec plc and Investec Limited held on provide the framework for how we conduct 7August 2014. our business and measure behaviour and practices to ensure that we demonstrate Consequently, I assumed the role of sole the characteristics of good governance.
chairman of the board, with effect from Ourvalues require that directors and 8August 2014. employees act with moral strength and Composition of the board and board integrity, and conduct themselves to the refreshment highest ethical standard to promote and maintain trust.
The board, on the recommendation of the NOMDAC, implemented a structured Sound corporate governance is therefore refreshment programme so as to ensure 3 3 implicit in our values, culture, processes, that we are recruiting new independent functions and organisational structure.
non-executive directors and retiring some of Structures are designed to ensure that our our longer serving non-executive directors.
values remain embedded in all businesses Accordingly, the following changes were and processes.
We continually refine these made to the composition of the board: structures, and a written statement of values serves as our code of ethics.
George Alford, Olivia Dickson and Peter Malungani did not seek re-election as Regulatory context directors at the 2014 annual general meeting, and accordingly stepped down The disclosure of our governance practices from the board at the conclusion of the requires a description of the regulatory 2014 annual general meeting context that Investec, as a dual listed company DLC, operates within.
We operate under a DLC structure, and consider the corporate governance principles and regulations of both the 116 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued The board appointed, with effect Key themes to emerge from the Management succession from 8 August 2014, Charles Jacobs, effectiveness review included: Succession planning for senior LordMalloch-Brown and Khumo management is also a key area of focus Board composition: bedding down the Shuenyane as independent nonand the identification of talented future board refreshment programme executive directors leaders is essential for Investecs longManagement succession planning Perry Crosthwaite was appointed as the termsuccess.
Continuing to improve management senior independent director in place of The NOMDAC received a detailed George Alford on 8 August 2014 information presentation from the executive Zarina Bassa was appointed as an Strengthening the structures of the management regarding senior management regulated subsidiaries independent non-executive director succession, and the NOMDAC is satisfied of the board, with effect from Directors ongoing development that there is a formal management 1November2014, andLaurelBowden particularly within the context of the succession plan in place.
The NOMDAC was appointed as an independent nonchanging regulatory landscape will continue to focus on ensuring that the executive director on 1January2015.
management succession plan remains Streamlining the working between up to date and the respective succession the group risk and capital committee Additionally, discussions have been plans in the three core activities continue GRCC and the board risk and capital concluded with Haruko Fukuda, who has to be implemented within the respective committee BRCC served on the board for a period exceeding businesses.
nine years, who has agreed that she will The number of directors on the board.
not stand for re-election at the August 2015 Regulatory and governance best An externally facilitated board effectiveness annual general meeting.
practice evaluation last took place in 2013.
The board continues to monitor the impact In the United Kingdom, the year ahead Theboard has agreed that the 2016 of the evolving regulatory landscape in the will see the groups implementation review of the boards effectiveness will be UK, and consideration is being given to of the Financial Services Banking conducted by an external independent appoint a UK independent non-executive Reform Act 2013, bringing about a facilitator.
director with specific and recent financial new Senior Managers Regime which services knowledge to theboard.
will include specific responsibilities for Priorities for the new year non-executive directors.
A revised UK Composition of the DLC remuneration In broad terms, our priorities for 2015, from Corporate Governance Code, published committee a corporate governance perspective, are in September2014, effective for asfollows: Charles Jacobs was appointed as a reporting periods beginning on or after member of the committee, effective from 1 October2014, will see changes to Board diversity and effectiveness 8 August 2014 its provisions relating to remuneration, The board will continue with its structured engagement with shareholders and Bradley Fried stepped down as a refreshment programme to ensure its riskmanagement.
member of the committee, with effect composition is the most appropriate to from 18September 2014.
Conclusion provide effective entrepreneurial leadership and robust oversight.
Composition of the audit committees It is important to emphasise that underpinning our governance framework, Khumo Shuenyane was appointed as a The board believes that diversity in terms and at the core of everything we do, are member of the committees with effect of a broad range of skills, experience, Investecs culture, values and philosophies.
from 8 August 2014 background and outlook is required for Zarina Bassa became a member of the it to be effective.
While non-executive Increasingly, the importance of committees on 1 November 2014 appointments are based on merit and organisational culture and its part in overall suitability for the role, the NOMDAC Laurel Bowden was appointed to ensuring good corporate governance is mindful of all aspects of diversity when the committees with effect from and conduct is understood by other making recommendations for appointments 1January2015.
organisations and by our regulators.
Ourculture and values have always been Composition of NOMDAC at the heart of how we operate, and we Per Lord Davies report on Women on Perry Crosthwaite and David Friedland believe the strength with which these Boards, the board has an aspirational were appointed as members of are embedded and lived throughout the target of 25% female representation on NOMDAC on 16 September 2014. organisation distinguishes Investec from the board by the end of 2015.
We believe that these will, as ever, recognises that gender is an important Board and directors effectiveness provide the group with a strong foundation aspect of diversity.
The NOMDAC continues review to enable it to meet the challenges of to implement the structured refreshment The 2015 review of the boards thefuture.
programme referred to above so as to effectiveness took the form of a detailed ensure that we are retiring some of our questionnaire and a series of structured longer serving non-executive directors over interviews between the chairman and each a period of years.
At the date of this report, Fani Titi individual director the2015 review.
All the board had adopted a board diversity Chairman directors completed the questionnaire and policy and female directors currently were interviewed during the course of the 19 June 2015 comprise 24% of the board.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 117 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued discussed at the time of the approval of the Each strategic business unit has a Governance framework annual financial results by the board and management committee and is responsible these include: for implementing operational decisions, Investec Limited and Investec plc, together managing risk and aligning divisional with their subsidiaries, are merged as Budgeting and forecasts objectives with the group strategy a single economic enterprise as a result andvision.
Profitability The NOMDAC receives a detailed The group has adopted a risk and Capital presentation from the executive regarding governance structure which allows for the Liquidity senior management succession and the operation of the various committees and NOMDAC is satisfied that there is a formal forums at group level.
management succession plan in place.
Investecs governance framework The board is of the opinion, based on its The NOMDAC will continue to focus is depicted on page 42. knowledge of the group, key processes on ensuring that the management in operation and enquiries, that there This avoids the necessity of having succession plan remains up to date.
are adequate resources to support to duplicate various committees and Senior management succession plans are the group as a going concern for the forums at group subsidiary level.
Due to also presented annually to the banking foreseeablefuture.
the DLC structure, we have combined regulators.
board committees of Investec Limited Further information on our and Investec plc.
Full disclosure of the liquidity and capital position is functioning and responsibilities of these provided onpages 84 to 90 and Internal control board committees can be found in pages 95 to111.
Risks and controls are reviewed and Furthermore, the board is of the opinion monitored regularly for relevance and that the groups risk management effectiveness.
The DLC board risk and processes and the systems of internal Statement of compliance capital committee BRCC, group risk control operate effectively.
and capital committee GRCC and audit UK Corporate Governance committees assist the board in thisregard.
The directors are responsible for monitoring Code and reviewing the preparation, integrity and Sound risk management practices are The board is of the opinion that, based on reliability of the Investec plc annual financial promoted by the group risk management the practices disclosed throughout this statements, accounting policies and the function, which is independent of report, which were in operation during the information contained in the integrated operational management.
The board year under review, the group has complied annual report, and to ensure that the annual recognises its responsibility for the overall with the relevant provisions set out in the financial statements are fair, balanced risk and control framework and for UK Corporate Governance Code, save that andunderstandable.
Bradley Fried, was appointed as a member of the DLC remuneration committee The process is implemented by Internal control is designed to mitigate, Remco on 3 April 2013.
Bradley Fried management and independently monitored not eliminate, significant risks faced.
was not considered to be independent for effectiveness by audit, risk and other It is recognised that such a system as he was employed as Investec Bank sub-committees of the board.
provides reasonable, but not absolute, plc CEO during the five years prior to his assurance against material error, omission, appointment as a director.
The board Our annual financial statements are misstatement or loss.
This is achieved believes that Bradley Frieds knowledge and prepared on a going concern basis.
within the group through a combination experience was beneficial to the work of the Remco for the period of his appointment, of risk identification, evaluation and Management and that he exercised independent judgement, monitoring processes, appropriate and that the balance of independent succession planning decision as well as oversight forums, and 3 3 non-executive directors on the Remco assurance and control functions such as Global business unit heads, geographic meant that it was able to effectively group risk management, internal audit and discharge its responsibilities.
Bradley Fried management and the heads of central compliance.
stepped down as a member of the Remco and group service functions are appointed with effect from 18September 2014.
Internal Audit reports any control by executive management and endorsed recommendations to senior management, by the board, based on the skills and group risk management and the relevant experience deemed necessary to perform Financial reporting and audit committee.
Appropriate processes, the required function.
In general, managers including review by the audit committees do not have fixed-term employment going concern support structures, ensure that timely contracts and there are no employment corrective action is taken on matters raised The directors have confirmed that they are contracts with managers for a term of more by Internal Audit.
Significant risks are than three years.
satisfied that Investec plc has adequate regularly considered by the executive risk resources to continue in business for Our management structure, reporting review forum ERRF and by the GRCC the foreseeable future.
The assumptions lines and the division of responsibilities are and BRCC.
Material incidents and losses underlying the going concern statement are built around ageographic, divisional and and significant breaches of systems and functional network.
118 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued controls are reported to the BRCC and prosperity.
Theboard is accountable for the audit committees.
Reports from the the performance and affairs of Investec.
audit committees, BRCC and risk and Itprovides leadership for the group within control functions are reviewed at each a framework of prudent and effective boardmeeting.
controls which allow risks to be assessed andmanaged.
The board has adopted a board charter Conflict of interests which is reviewed annually and which provides, a framework of how the board Certain statutory duties with respect to operates as well as the type of decisions to directors conflicts of interest are in force be taken by the board and which decisions under the UK Companies Act 2006.
In should be delegated to management.
accordance with these Actsand the Articles of Association Articles, the board may For more information on the boards authorise any matter that otherwise may objectives, role and responsibilities refer to involve the directors breaching their duty Investecs 2015 integrated annual report.
to avoid conflicts of interest.
The board has adopted a procedure, as set out in the Composition, structure and Articles, that includes a requirement for process directors to submit, in writing, disclosures At the end of the year under review, the detailing any actual or potential conflict Investec board, including the chairman, for consideration and, if considered comprised four executive directors and appropriate, approval.
Refer to the Investec 2015 integrated Internal financial controls annual report for disclosures on: Internal financial controls are based on Board changes during the past year established policies and procedures.
Independence of board members and Management is responsible for the chairmen implementing internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably Skills, knowledge, experience, diversity qualified, that appropriate segregation and attributes of directors exists between duties, and that there is suitable independent review.
These areas Board and directors performance are monitored by the board through the evaluation audit committees and are independently Terms of appointment assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
Processes are in place to monitor internal Ongoing training and development control effectiveness, identify and report material breakdowns, and ensure that The role of the joint chairmen and chief timely and appropriate corrective action executive officer is taken.
Group Finance and Investor Board meetings Relations coordinate, review and comment on the monthly financial and regulatory Dealings in securities reports, and facilitate the interim and annual financial reporting process, including the Directors dealings 3 3 external audit process.
Board of directors Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 123 and 124, with more information in Investecs 2015 integrated annualreport.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainability, growth and Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 119 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued The names of the directors at the date of this report, the year of their appointment and their independence status for the year under review are set out below: Date of appointment: Investec plc Independent Executive directors S Koseff chief executive officer 26 Jun 2002 B Kantor managing director 26 Jun 2002 GR Burger group risk and finance director 3 Jul 2002 HJ du Toit 15 Dec 2010 Non-executive directors F Titi chairman 30 Jan 2004 Yes ZBM Bassa 1 Nov 2014 Yes LC Bowden 1 Jan 2015 Yes CA Carolus 18 Mar 2005 Yes PKO Crosthwaite senior independent director 18 Jun 2010 Yes B Fried 1 Apr 2010 No D Friedland 1 Mar 2013 Yes H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 2003 Yes CR Jacobs 8 Aug 2014 Yes IR Kantor 26 Jun 2002 No Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG 8 Aug 2014 Yes KL Shuenyane 8 Aug 2014 Yes PRS Thomas 26 Jun 2002 Yes 3 3 120 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued Balance of non-executive and executive directors Balance of non-executive and executive Directors: Independence Pre-2014 AGM Post-2014 AGM Chairman 1 of board Executives 4 65% independent Non-executives 13 Independent 50.0% Independent 65.0% Non-independent 50.0% Non-independent 35.0% Aspirational target: Per the Davies Report: 25% female representation by 2015 Diversity Board gender balance: Board gender balance: Pre-2014 AGM Post-2014 AGM Geographical mix Pre-2014 AGM : 60 Post-2014 AGM: 57 South Africa 47.0% 40 50 years 1 40 50 years 5 Male 81.0% Male 76.0% UK including Europe 53.0% 50 60 years 6 50 60 years 4 Female 19.0% Female 24.0% 60 years plus 9 60 years plus 8 3 3 Average length of service: Pre-2014 AGM: 8 years average Post-2014 AGM: 5 years average Tenure Average length of service: Length of service by band for non-executive directors UK Corporate Governance recommendations: 0 3 years 1 0 3 years 6 Recommendation that non-executives 3 6 years 3 3 6 years 2 should not serve longer than nine years 6 9 years 2 6 9 years from the time of their appointment.
9 years plus 6 9 years plus 5 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 121
