Our Governance Committee Reports Report of the Audit and Risk Committee The main activities of the Committee, which was renamed the Audit and Risk Committee at the end of 2015 to reflect the increased importance of risk management in the Committee agenda, can be seen by referring to the summary agenda items overleaf.
Jonathan Brooks Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee met four times during the year, with Audit and Risk Committee all meetings attended by four independent Nonresponsibilities executive Directors.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, statements of the Group, and reviews all proposed Group Financial Controller, and the external auditor annual and half-yearly results announcements were also invited to attend all of the meetings.
At the to be made by the Group with consideration end of each of the meetings, the Committee met with being given to any significant financial reporting the auditor without any members of the executive judgements contained in them.
The Committee management team being present.
I also met the also advises the Board on whether it believes the external auditor away from the Groups offices.
annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Activities during the year information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and The main activities of the Committee during 2015 can strategy.
The Committee also considers internal be seen by referring to the summary agenda items controls, compliance with legal requirements, overleaf.
During the year, the Committee focussed accounting standards and the Listing, Disclosure on three particular activities, these being work and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct around the new viability statement, a more rigorous Authority, and also reviews any proposed change approach to the examination of the management in accounting policies and any recommendations of risk in the Group following the recent changes from the Groups Auditor regarding improvements to corporate governance, and finally more time to internal controls and the adequacy of resources spent than in previous years on the subject of cyber within the Groups finance function.
Each of these items featured in three out of A full copy of the Committees Terms of Reference is the four meetings in 2015, demonstrating the greater available from the Companys website at emphasis placed on them during the year.
details on the most important activities undertaken by the Committee are noted overleaf.
Committee membership Valuation of assets and liabilities The Committee comprises four independent nonexecutive directors, with myself as Chair.
As the Chair This represents the key audit risk for the Group and at of the Committee, I am deemed by the Board to each reporting event, the Audit Committee discusses with management and the auditor the approach that have recent and relevant financial experience, being has been taken in assessing all key estimates.
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and having held senior financial The most material area of judgement in the financial positions in my career.
Until the AGM in 2015, the statements relates to the valuation of the unquoted other committee members were Mike Humphrey, equity investments, which at year end had a carrying who was then the senior independent director, Doug value of 341.8m.
The Committee satisfied itself that Liversidge CBE and Professor Lynn Gladden CBE.
the portfolio valuations were materially correct after Following the AGM in May, Mike Humphrey stepped considering findings from the year end valuations meeting, which was attended by KPMG, receiving down from the Committee following his appointment periodic presentational updates from the sector as Chairman of the Group, while Dr Elaine Sullivan heads and business building team members, and joined the Committee in July 2015 following her receiving regular written reports on the Groups appointment as a non-executive director.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued At year end the fair value of the Groups goodwill was 57.1m.
The majority of these balances arose from the Summary agendas for Audit acquisition of Fusion IP in 2014.
The goodwill balance committee meetings in 2015 is tested annually for impairment.
The intangible February assets are reviewed for impairment indicators and impairment tests are performed if any indicators Full year financial statements and discussions are noted.
with auditor Fair, balanced and understandable review of Regulatory Compliance Annual Report Ensuring compliance for FCA regulated businesses Audit committee effectiveness review also represents an important control risk from the Going concern review for 2015 financial perspective of the Audit Committee.
An annual statements review is conducted internally to monitor compliance Consideration of the need for a formal internal and an external evaluation is also conducted by a audit function specialist firm.
During the review in 2015, no particular Audit tender process issues were identified.
Review of Audit Committee annual agenda Review of Annual Report and Accounts and May Half-yearly Report Review of Risk Register The Committee carried out a thorough review of Planning of internal audit projects the Groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts MLRO Compliance officer reports on and its 2015 Half-yearly Report resulting in the regulated businesses recommendation of both for approval by the Board.
External review of FCA-authorised businesses In carrying out its review, the Committee gave Review of Group Treasury Policy particular consideration to whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and Half year results planning with new audit firm understandable, concluding that it was.
It did this Long term viability statement primarily through consideration of the reporting Cyber security project update and ten steps of the Groups business model and strategy, the analysis competitive landscape in which it operates, the July significant risks it faces, the progress made against its strategic objectives and the progress made by, Half year financial statements and review with and changes in fair value of, its portfolio companies auditor during the year.
Cyber Security update from KPMG Review of anti-bribery policy and procedures Going Concern Cyber-security and IT Data update Annually, the Committee considers the going Risk Review and Long term viability update concern principle on which the financial statements Review of D&O and PI insurances are prepared and also considers and approves December the impairment review of goodwill prepared by management.
As a business which seeks to establish Review of auditors 2015 audit planning and invest in new ventures as well as support existing document investments with further capital, the business model Audit and Risk Committees terms of is currently inherently cash consuming.
Following reference: annual review the placing and open offer for gross proceeds of Whistleblowing policy: annual review of 128m at the end of March 2015, the Group has process sufficient cash reserves to continue to provide capital Investment and divestment policy: annual to its existing portfolio and to create and fund new review businesses at a similar rate to previous years for in Related party transaction policy review excess of two years assuming broadly similar levels of Review of risk register and risk appetite net operating expenditure and portfolio realisations.
Going concern and long-term viability report Cyber security update Group KPI review 88 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Governance Committee Reports Long Term Viability Cyber Security During 2015, the Committee spent time discussing During the year there was increased emphasis on how best to assess the long term viability of the cyber security in the Group with a general migration Group and it was decided to use the Groups board to cloud-based data storage services for security strategy away day in October to evaluate four reasons, a general enhancement of user awareness possible forecasts for the business, but judged training and an updating of encryption at the device against five topics.
These topics included changes in level.
An outside firm was engaged to undertake the competitive landscape, the ability to raise further penetration testing as well as to mount bogus capital, internationalisation of the business, scaling phishing attacks to test general staff awareness of of the business and different outcomes following an this ever-growing risk.
Both the training and policies Oxford Nanopore exit event, and the impact of these with respect to internet access were reviewed by an on each of the forecast scenarios was assessed.
By external third party and considered appropriate for working through each of these scenarios, the Board the scale and nature of the business by a third party.
was able to make an assessment of the longer-term In May the Committee assessed its progress against viability of the Group, and came to the conclusion the UK Communications Electronic Security Group that given the possibility of great changes in the 10 steps to cyber security, noting that progress business in all scenarios that the viability period continued to be made in this increasingly important should not be greater than three years.
Risk and internal controls Internal audit The key elements of the Groups internal control The Group does not maintain a separate internal framework and procedures are set out on pages 59 audit function.
This is principally due to the size and 60.
The principal risks the Group faces are set of the Group where close control over operations out on pages 36 to 41.
During the year, the Audit is exercised by a small number of executives.
The Committee considered the Group risk register and Audit Committee currently considers the outsourced related management controls at three separate provision of internal audit work as both more efficient meetings and the Board had a lengthy assessment of and cost-effective than having its own central internal risk and its risk appetite towards its strategic priorities audit team.
However, the Audit Committee does at the annual strategy off-site meeting in October.
review the need to have its own separate internal During that meeting, a heat map of risks assessed audit function each year.
in 2015 was compared to a similar exercise for 2014 The Audit Committee has developed a framework to to see what had changed.
Increased competition, an gain assurance over the system of internal financial equity market downturn, insufficient returns from and operational controls.
This comprises: investments, excessive portfolio concentration and a difficulty scaling the university partnership model A risk assessment performed by operational were all identified as areas of increasing risk since management and the Board to identify key areas for 2014 and mitigation plans to cope with each of assurance.
these as well as with all of the other identified risks An annual assessment by the Audit Committee of were discussed in the December Audit and Risk the whole system of internal financial and operational Committee.
Whistleblowing Policy The Audit Committee considers that a key area of There is a formal whistleblowing policy which has risk in the business lies in the Groups investment and been communicated to employees.
This policy divestment policies and processes.
The establishment provides information on the process to follow in the of four sector-focused divisions within the Group event that any employee feels it is appropriate to in late 2014 following the acquisition of Fusion IP make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee is satisfied has given added momentum to the need to further that the policy provides an adequate basis for formalise these policies and further progress was employees to make representations in confidence made in 2015, with the development of better to the Group and for appropriate and proportionate historical record-keeping.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Auditor Independence External audit A formal statement of independence is received from The effectiveness of the external audit process is the auditor each year and the Board and the Audit dependent on appropriate risk identification.
In Committee are satisfied that the independence of December, the Committee discussed the Auditors the auditor, first appointed in May 2014, has been audit plan for 2015.
This included a summary of maintained.
the proposed audit scope and a summary of what the Auditor considered to be the most significant Auditor Effectiveness financial reporting risks facing the Group together The Committee will complete its formal assessment with the Auditors proposed audit approach to of the effectiveness of the Groups external auditor these significant risk areas.
The main areas of audit following the completion of the 2015 audit cycle focus for the year were the valuation of investments and will report on this assessment in the 2016 in portfolio companies, with particular focus on annual report.
With respect to the 2014 audit, the unquoted companies, including Oxford Nanopore Committee formally considered this at its May 2015 Technologies Limited, the valuation of goodwill, meeting and decided that the approach taken by the and ensuring there had been regulatory compliance auditor, Jon Mills of KPMG, had been very effective.
In for those parts of the business covered by FCA particular, the Committee appreciated his attendance regulations.
at the year-end valuation meeting in December, Appointment and Independence the structured approach to preparatory planning work before the year end to assist a smooth audit The Audit Committee advises the Board on the timetable, and the substantive nature of the audit appointment of the external auditor and on its work undertaken, with 87% of unquoted and 100% remuneration both for audit and non-audit work of quoted assets being reviewed as part of the audit.
and discusses the nature, scope and results of the Specialist corporate finance staff were also used for audit with the external auditor.
The Committee some of the valuation work and overall, the auditors keeps under review the cost-effectiveness and the risk-based approach drew on both their rapidlyindependence and objectivity of the external auditor.
gained knowledge of the business but also the wider Controls in place to ensure this include monitoring economic and business environment.
the independence and effectiveness of the audit, implementing a policy on the engagement of the I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions external auditor to supply non-audit services, and about the Committees work.
a review of the scope of the audit and fee and performance of the external auditor.
As part of this Jonathan Brooks work, as described above, the Committee undertook Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee a tender process for the Groups audit during 2014 29 February 2016 that resulted in the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor.
Non-Audit Work The Audit Committee approves all fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work.
Since its appointment as the Groups Auditor, KPMG LLP has not undertaken any non-audit work, the Committee having preferred to engage other firms to perform tax advisory work and other consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the Auditor is not compromised.
Where appropriate, the Committee may sanction the use of KPMG LLP for non-audit services in accordance with the Groups non-audit services policy but has so far chosen not to do so.
An analysis of audit and non-audit fees is provided in note 6 to the financial statements on page 116.
90 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM
