Corporate Governance Statement A year of bedding down of the sector teams and their accountability, together with further evolution of the Board.
Mike Humphrey Chairman 2015 has been a busy year for IP Group with the Compliance with the UK Corporate completion of two significant equity fundraisings, Governance Code the securing of a new debt facility from the The Directors are committed to a high standard of European Investment Bank, solid performances corporate governance and to compliance with the from the portfolios of each of its four sectors and best practice of the UK Corporate Governance Code good traction being attained by, and a high quality the Code.
The version of the Code applicable pipeline of spin-out opportunities identified for, its US to the twelve months ended 31 December 2015 is operations.
that issued by the Financial Reporting Council in The Board remains focused on the execution of September 2014, and the Directors consider that the Groups strategy, working with its partners to the Company has been in compliance with all the develop outstanding intellectual property-based provisions set out in that edition of the Code with businesses, and, in doing so, it continues to recognise the following exception: the requirement under the the importance of a strong focus on corporate Code Section B.
1.2 for at least half of the Board, governance.
Corporate governance at IP Group is excluding the Chairman, to comprise independent more than just compliance with rules and regulations.
non-executive directors was not met for a short It is an integral part of all of our activities, especially period between the Groups annual general meeting those of the Board and its committees.
held in May 2015 when Dr Bruce Smith retired and 31 July 2015 when Dr Elaine Sullivan was appointed as The Board is accountable to the Companys an additional independent Non-executive Director.
shareholders for good governance and this report, The Board has been compliant with Section B.
1.2 of together with the Reports of the Remuneration, the Code with effect from Dr Sullivans appointment.
Nomination and Audit Committees of the Board describes our detailed approach to corporate Further explanation as to how the provisions set governance and further information on the key out in the Code have been applied by the Company developments in these areas during the year.
is set out in the following statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Committee Report The Board looks forward to being able to discuss and the Strategic Report.
these matters with our shareholders at the Groups forthcoming AGM or indeed at any other point during The Board the year.
Role and responsibilities of the Board Mike Humphrey Chairman The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Group as a whole, providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of controls for assessing and managing risk: defining, challenging and interrogating the Groups strategic aims and direction: maintaining the policy and decision-making framework in which such strategic aims are implemented: ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet strategic aims: monitoring performance against key financial and non-financial indicators: succession planning: overseeing the system of 50 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Governance Overview risk management: setting values and standards The schedule of matters reserved for Board decision in governance matters: monitoring policies and and approval are those significant to the Group as a performance on corporate social responsibility and whole due to their strategic, financial or reputational helping to shape and embed the Groups corporate implications.
This current schedule was scrutinised culture and values.
The Directors are also responsible in detail in 2014 alongside the terms of reference for promoting the long-term success of the Group, of the Executive Committee, Audit Committee, taking into account the interests of shareholders Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee and other stakeholders including employees, and the final version adopted by the Board in August suppliers, customers, university and other partners, 2014 following this process was reviewed by the the community, the environment and society: for Board in 2015 and has not required any amendment.
ensuring that obligations to shareholders and This schedule includes, without limitation, those other stakeholders are understood and met: and in matters set out in the box overleaf and the full maintaining a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
schedule can be found within the Corporate All Directors are equally accountable to the Governance section of the Groups website at Companys shareholders for the proper stewardship www.
of its affairs and the long-term success of the Group.
In addition to the Executive Committee, the Board The responsibility of the Directors is collective, delegates specific responsibilities to certain additional taking into account their respective roles as committees that assist the Board in carrying out Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors.
its functions and ensure independent oversight of The Executive Directors are directly responsible for internal control and risk management.
The three running the business operations, and developing principal Board Committees Audit, Remuneration and implementing strategy, and the Non-executive and Nomination play an essential role in supporting Directors are responsible for constructively the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities and ensuring challenging and contributing to proposals on strategy, that the highest standards of corporate governance scrutinising the performance of management, are maintained throughout the Group.
Each determining levels of remuneration and for succession committee has its own terms of reference which planning for the Executive Directors.
The Nonset out the specific matters for which delegated executive Directors must also satisfy themselves on authority has been given by the Board.
The current the integrity of financial information and that financial terms of reference for the Nomination Committee, controls and systems of risk management are robust.
which were updated in 2014, are fully compliant with the provisions of the Code and reflect best practice, The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis were reviewed by the Nomination Committee and exercises control over the performance of the throughout the year and no amendments were Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring considered necessary.
The review of the current terms performance against those targets.
The Board has of reference of each of the Audit Committee and overall responsibility for the Groups systems of Remuneration Committee through 2015 concluded internal controls and risk management, as described that, whilst compliant with the provisions of the on pages 34 to 41.
Any decisions made by the Board Code, certain amendments were desirable to reflect on policies and strategy to be adopted by the Group, current best practice and the actual workings of the or changes to current policies and strategy, are made relevant Committee.
Amended terms of reference following presentations by the Executive Directors for each of the Audit Committee and Remuneration and a detailed process of review and challenge by the Committee were accordingly approved by the Board.
Once made, the Executive Directors are fully relevant Committee for recommendation to the Board empowered to implement those decisions.
for approval, which was duly received, in December 2015.
Each Committee will continue to review its own Except for a formal schedule of matters which are terms of reference annually and update these where reserved for decision and approval by the Board, the necessary.
All of the current Committee terms of Board has delegated the day-to-day management of reference are available on request from the Company the Groups operations to the Executive Committee Secretary or within the Corporate Governance section comprising the Chief Executive Officer, the other of the Groups website at www.
Executive Directors and four members of the senior management team: the Groups Director of Strategy, the Groups Managing Director - New Business and Partnerships, the Groups Head of Biotech and the Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Corporate Governance Statement continued Matters Reserved Approval of the annual report and accounts and half-year Available from for the Board results statement, accounting policies and procedures or the Company any matter having a material impact on future financial Secretary or on performance of the Group.
our corporate website Strategic acquisitions or disposals by the Group.
Major portfolio capital allocation decisions, being those in www.
com The entry into by the Group of strategic partnerships and collaborations with universities and other research institutions.
Major disposals from the Groups portfolio.
Approval and monitoring of the Groups strategic aims and objectives.
Approval of the annual budget.
Considering and, where appropriate, approving Directors conflicts of interest.
Approving Board appointments and removals and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration.
Approval of terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
Approval, subject to shareholder approval, of the appointment and remuneration of the auditors.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued to shareholders governed by the FSAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Rules or Transparency Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Changes to the Groups capital structure, the issue of any securities and material borrowing of the Group.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Major changes in employee share schemes.
Material borrowings by the Group.
Board The terms of reference of each Committee establish its Committees responsibilities and are available from the Company Secretary and on our corporate website: www.
Executive Day-to-day decisions are delegated to the Executive Committee, Committee which operates under agreed terms of reference.
These are available from the Company Secretary and on our corporate website: www.
52 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Governance Overview but their appointment is subject to election by Board size and composition shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after As at 31 December 2015, there were nine Directors on their appointment.
the Board: the Chairman, four Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
The biographies of all Diversity of these Directors are provided on pages 48 and 49.
The Board is committed to a culture that attracts During the year, there were a number of changes to and retains talented people to deliver outstanding the Board and its Committees as follows: performance and further enhance the success of the Dr Bruce Smith retired from the Board as NonCompany.
In that culture, diversity across a range of Executive Chairman on 24 March 2015: criteria is valued.
The Board recognises that diversity, in all its aspects, is key for introducing different Mike Humphrey, the Groups former Senior perspectives into board debate and decision making.
Independent Director, succeeded Dr Bruce Smith A genuinely diverse board comprises individuals with as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 24 a range of personal attributes, perspectives, skills, March 2015.
Upon his appointment as Chairman, knowledge, experiences and backgrounds, as well Mr Humphrey stepped down from the Audit as representing differences in nationality, race and Committee, became chair of the Nomination gender.
Committee and, whilst he remains a member of the Remuneration Committee, was replaced by The Boards policy is to make appointments to Jonathan Brooks as chair of the Remuneration the Board based upon merit against objective Committee: criteria.
In addition, the Board agrees that gender Doug Liversidge succeeded Mike Humphrey as remains an important aspect in creating an optimal Senior Independent Director with effect from 24 board in terms of balance and composition.
In March 2015: and identifying suitable candidates for the new Nonexecutive Director appointment made during Dr Elaine Sullivan joined the Board as a Non- 2015, the Nomination Committee gave due regard executive Director with effect from 30 July to the benefits of diversity as well as its stated 2015.
Upon her appointment, Dr Sullivan was intention in the 2014 annual report and accounts appointed as a member of the Audit Committee, to give due consideration to increasing the level of Remuneration Committee and Nomination female representation on the Board.
Nomination Committee made the decision to, as the Details of the process undertaken by the Nomination first step in the recruitment process, request a female Committee in connection with the appointment of Dr only longlist and it was from this that the eventual Elaine Sullivan are set out on page 59. candidate, Dr Elaine Sullivan, was selected.
An extract of the Groups Policy relating to the The Nomination Committee gave further terms of appointment and the remuneration of both consideration through the year as to whether to executive and non-executive directors is detailed in set a target in relation to the number of women the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to on the Board but, whilst it endorses Lord Davies 86. recommendations, it did not consider it appropriate nor in the best interests of the Group to set either In accordance with the Code, all Directors other than Board or Group-wide targets at this stage and Dr Elaine Sullivan will submit themselves for annual prefers to continue to consider all aspects of re-election by shareholders at the Annual General diversity including gender when assessing the Meeting of the Company to be held on 12 May 2016. overall Board composition and in making further new As Dr Elaine Sullivan was appointed since the last appointments.
Notwithstanding that it does not have general meeting of the Company held on 12 May 2015, a fixed target in relation to the number of women on she will be standing for election at the 2016 AGM.
The the Board, the Company did increase the number of Board recommends to shareholders the appointment female directors on its Board to two throughout the of Dr Elaine Sullivan and the reappointment of all year and will aim to maintain female representation other Directors retiring at the meeting and offering on the Board at least at this current level.
In addition, themselves for re-election on the basis that the the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee annual Board evaluation and individual performance include a requirement for the Nomination Committee reviews demonstrated that they are all effective to consider diversity, including gender, in evaluating directors of the Company and continue to display the the composition of the Board and in identifying appropriate level of commitment in their respective suitable candidates for Board appointments.
New directors may be appointed by the Board 53 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Corporate Governance Statement continued The Groups commitment to diversity at the senior with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the full management level is also very strong and it actively and effective contribution of non-executive directors works to increase the number of women in leadership at Board and Committee meetings, ensures that they positions within the Group.
A breakdown of employee are kept well informed and fosters a constructive diversity showing the number of persons who were relationship between the Executive Directors and Directors of the Company and senior managers at the Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman also ensures date of this report can be found on page 43. that the membership of the Board is appropriate to the needs of the business and that the Board Non-executive Directors Committees carry out their duties, including reporting back to the Board following their meetings, either The Non-executive Directors provide a wide range orally or in writing, at the next Board meeting of skills and experience to the Group.
They bring depending on its proximity to the meeting of the their own senior level of experience in each of their relevant committee.
own fields, robust opinions and an independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, risk The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to lead and people through their contribution and are well the delivery of the strategy and the executive placed to constructively challenge and scrutinise management of the Group and its operating the performance of management at Board and businesses.
He is responsible, amongst other Committee meetings.
The Code sets out the things, for the development and implementation circumstances that should be relevant to the Board of strategy and processes which enable the Group in determining whether each non-executive director to meet the requirements of shareholders, for is independent.
The Board considers non-executive delivering the operating plans and budgets for the director independence on an annual basis as part Groups businesses its sectors, monitoring business of each non-executive directors performance performance against key performance indicators evaluation.
Having undertaken this review, and KPIs, and reporting on these to the Board, and for with due regard to provision B.
1.1 of the Code, the providing the appropriate environment to recruit, Board has concluded this year that all of the Nonengage, retain and develop the high quality personnel executive Directors are considered by the Board needed to deliver the Groups strategy.
to be independent of management and free of any relationship or circumstance which could materially Senior Independent Director influence or interfere with, or affect, or appear to Doug Liversidge is the current Senior Independent affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
Director, having succeeded Mike Humphrey on Since 2009, the Boards policy has been to prohibit 2015 when Mr Humphrey took on his new role as personal investments by the non-executive directors Chairman of the Board.
A key responsibility of in any of the Groups portfolio companies, whether the Senior Independent Director is to be available new or existing.
None of the Non-executive Directors to shareholders in the event that they may feel it presenting themselves for election or re-election at inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman the AGM in 2016 have holdings in any of the Groups or Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the Senior portfolio companies.
Independent Director serves as an intermediary between the rest of the Board and the Chairman, Non-executive directors are required to obtain the where necessary, and takes the lead when the approval of the Chairman before taking on any further Non-executive Directors assess the Chairmans appointments and the Chairman requires the approval performance and when the appointment of a new of the Board before adding to his commitments.
In all Chairman is considered other than where the Senior cases, the Non-executive directors must ensure that Independent Director himself or herself wishes their external appointments do not involve excessive to be considered for the role.
Further, the Senior time commitment or cause a conflict of interest.
Independent Director will lead the Board in their deliberations on any matters on which the Chairman The roles of Chairman and is conflicted.
Chief Executive Officer Board support Mike Humphrey is the current Chairman.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the The Company Secretary is responsible to the Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out Board for ensuring that Board procedures are in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman followed, applicable rules and regulations are is responsible for the leadership and conduct of complied with and that the Board is advised on the Board, the conduct of the Groups affairs and governance matters and relevant regulatory matters.
strategy and for ensuring effective communication 54 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Governance Overview All directors have access to the impartial advice and when necessary.
In advance of each scheduled and services of the Company Secretary.
There is meeting, each member of the Board receives detailed also an agreed procedure for directors to take Board packs, which include an agenda based upon independent professional advice at the Companys the schedule of matters reserved for its approval expense.
In accordance with the Companys Articles along with appropriate reports and briefing papers.
of Association, directors have been granted an If a director is unable to attend a meeting due to indemnity issued by the Company to the extent exceptional circumstances, he or she will still receive permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred the supporting papers and will usually discuss any as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not matters he or she wishes to raise with the Chairman provide any coverage where a director is proved to in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman, Chief have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
A copy of Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company the indemnity is available for inspection as required Secretary and Heads of each of the sectors work by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has also together to ensure that the Directors receive relevant arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of information to enable them to discharge their duties legal action against its directors and officers.
and that such information is accurate, timely and clear.
This information includes monthly management Board meetings and decisions accounts containing analysis of performance against budget and other forecasts, as well as monthly The Board meets regularly during the year as well reports from each of the Heads of the four Sectors.
as on an ad hoc basis, as required by business need.
Additional information is provided as appropriate or The Board had seven scheduled Board meetings in if requested.
At each meeting, the Board receives 2015.
One of these meetings was devoted entirely to information, reports and presentations from the Chief the Boards review of the progress, performance and Executive Officer, the other Executive Directors and, objectives for the next twelve to eighteen months by invitation, other members of senior management of each the Groups four Sector teams Healthcare, or the Groups Sector Teams as required.
This ensures Biotech, Tech and Cleantech which had been first that all Directors are aware of, and are in a position created in 2014.
The Heads of each Sector presented to monitor effectively, the overall performance of to the Board at the meeting and this detailed Board the Group, its development and implementation of review was seen as a concerted move towards further strategy, and its management of risk.
bedding these sector teams down within the Group and enhancing the accountability of each of the Any matter requiring a decision by the Board is Sector Heads for the budgeting for and performance supported by a paper analysing the relevant aspects of their respective teams and portfolios.
of the proposal including costs, benefits, potential risks involved and proposed executive management In addition to the seven scheduled Board meetings, action and recommendation.
the Board held a new format two day strategy meeting in October 2015 devoted entirely to the The majority of Board meetings are held at the Groups strategic objectives.
This provided an Groups offices in London, which gives members of opportunity for all the Directors, and particularly the Groups Sector Teams the opportunity to formally the Non-executive Directors, to ensure the Groups present to the Board on new spin-out opportunities strategy is on course: to discuss medium and or early-stage portfolio companies on which they are longer term strategic objectives, and the key drivers working.
This assists the Board in gaining a deeper underpinning these: to review the Groups KPIs: to understanding of the breadth, stage of development analyse and challenge the Groups objectives: and to and diversity of the Groups portfolio.
The Board review the Groups risk framework and risk appetite, also aims to have at least one of its scheduled including considering the major risks facing the Group meetings, or its annual strategy day s, at either and its strategy and how to assess, manage, mitigate the Companys offices in Leeds, Oxford, Sheffield, and or monitor the same.
In addition, the Chairman Cardiff or Newcastle or at the location of one of the and the Non-executive Directors met without the Groups partner universities in order to encourage presence of the Executive Directors twice during further interaction with the Groups stakeholders.
In 2015, the Boards annual strategy days were held The schedule of Board and Committee meetings each in Cardiff.
Meetings between the Chairman and the year is, so far as is possible, determined before the Non-executive Directors, both with and without the commencement of that year and all Directors or, if presence of the Chief Executive Officer, are also held appropriate, all Committee members are expected as the need arises.
Supplementary meetings of the Board and or the Committees are held as 55 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Corporate Governance Statement continued Board and committee attendance The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees at which they were eligible to attend during the year: Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee 1 Mike Humphrey Alan Aubrey Mike Townend Greg Smith David Baynes Jonathan Brooks Doug Liversidge Prof. Lynn Gladden 2 Dr Elaine Sullivan 3 Dr Bruce Smith 1.
Upon Mike Humphreys appointment as Chairman of the Board on 24 March 2015, he stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee.
Dr Elaine Sullivan was appointed to the Board as Non-executive Director and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee on 30 July 2015.
Dr Bruce Smith retired as Chairman of the Board on 24 March 2015.
Key: Attended Did not attend 56 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Governance Overview its sponsor Numis Securities Limited, as well as with Directors conflicts of interest appropriate governance specialists, to ensure that any Each director has a statutory duty under the new directors are fully aware of and understand their Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006 to avoid a responsibilities and obligations as a director of a FTSE situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct 350 company and of the governance framework or indirect interest that conflicts or may potentially within which they must operate.
conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the continuing duty that a director In order to ensure that directors continue to further owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any their understanding of the issues facing the Group, transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are the Company in which he or she is interested.
The encouraged to continue to visit the Groups offices Companys Articles of Association permit the Board other than the main corporate office in London, its to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
portfolio companies and its partner universities.
The Board has established procedures for managing Throughout 2016, it is anticipated that at least and, where appropriate, authorising any such conflicts one of the Groups Board meetings or its strategy or potential conflicts of interest.
It is a recurring day s will be off-site to facilitate this.
As detailed agenda item at all Board meetings and this gives the above, the Board is also exposed to the early-stage directors the opportunity to raise at the beginning of opportunities, in which the Group has invested, every Board meeting any actual of potential conflict through presentations at Board meetings by relevant of interests that they may have on the matters to be members of the Groups staff.
It is also intended that, discussed, or to update the Board on any change through 2016, other function heads such as the to a previous conflict of interest already declared.
heads of IP Exec, IP Impact, Communications and IP In deciding whether to authorise any conflict, the Assist and IP Capital will be given the opportunity directors must have regard to their general duties to present to the Board in order to enhance the under the CA 2006 and their overriding obligation to Boards awareness of how the Group operates on act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most a day-to-day basis and how such functions assist likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, in the execution of the Groups core strategy of the directors are able to impose limits or conditions systematically helping create, build and support when giving authorisation to a conflict or potential outstanding intellectual property-based businesses.
conflict of interest if they think this is appropriate.
The As a further aspect of their ongoing development, authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms each director also receives feedback on his or her of any authorisation, may be reviewed by the Board performance following the Boards performance at any time.
The Board believes that the procedures evaluation in each year and, through the Company established to deal with conflicts of interest are Secretary, access to relevant training and operating effectively.
development opportunities, including those relevant to the Non-executive Directors membership on the Induction, awareness and development Boards Committees, is facilitated.
A comprehensive induction process is in place for new directors.
The programme is tailored to Board effectiveness and performance the needs of each individual director and agreed evaluation with him or her so that he or she can gain a better In line with best practice under the Code a understanding of the Group and its businesses.
This performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees will generally include an overview of the Group and and individual directors is conducted annually to its businesses, structure, functions and strategic aims: ensure that Board performance continues to be site visits to the Groups head office in London and effective and that each of the directors demonstrates to one or more of its nationwide offices in Leeds, commitment to his or her respective role and has Oxford, Sheffield, Cardiff and Newcastle: and site sufficient time to meet their commitment to the visits to a number of the Groups portfolio companies, Group.
including, where possible, one or more within the Groups top ten holdings by value, which will Further, the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to include meeting with such companies management have an externally facilitated evaluation at least every and a presentation from them on their businesses.
In addition, the Company facilitates sessions as appropriate with the Groups advisers, in particular 57 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board appointed an external third-party provider, of the Executive Directors is reviewed by the Board Deloitte LLP, to externally facilitate the evaluation on an ongoing basis, as deemed necessary, in the during January February 2016.
Deloitte LLP has no absence of the Executive Director under review.
connection to the Group other than the provision Committees of the Board of ad hoc advice to the remuneration committee.
Deloitte LLP previously facilitated the evaluation in The composition of the three Committees of 2013 and the Board has satisfied itself that neither of the Board and the attendance of the members these factors compromised its independence.
throughout the year is set out in the diagram on page 56.
This process was based on: Remuneration and Audit Committees a review of documentation including Board and committee papers, terms of reference, strategy Separate reports on the role, composition, documents and forward plans: responsibilities and operation of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee are set out on distribution of an online survey to Members pages 62 to 86 and pages 87 to 90 respectively.
comprising quantitative and qualitative questions: and Nomination Committee non-attributable interviews with all Board The Nomination Committee leads the process members and a number of stakeholders who for Board appointments and the re-election and regularly interact with the Board, to include the succession of directors and the Chairman.
objective is to ensure that the Board comprises The anonymity of all respondents was ensured individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and throughout the process in order to encourage an experience to ensure that the Board is effective in open and frank exchange of views.
The results were discharging its duties.
It is responsible for making analysed by Deloitte and a report detailing the recommendations to the Board concerning the observations and recommendations prepared and composition and skills of the Board including any shared with the Board.
changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new directors, the reappointment Overall it was concluded that the Board continues of existing directors and the appointment of to work effectively.
There have been a number of members to the Boards Committees.
It also assesses changes to the Board composition, resulting in a wellthe roles of the existing directors in office to ensure balanced Board with a range of skills and experience.
there continues to be a balanced Board in terms In an effort to continue to improve, a number of areas of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The the Board should focus on where identified to include: Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group which will enable it to compete Increase focus on succession planning: effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Build on the strategic discussions at the strategy Committee also advises the Board on succession away day by incorporating key strategic items on planning for executive director appointments the agenda throughout the year: although the Board as a whole is responsible for Increase Non-executive Director interaction with succession generally.
the business and management: and The Committee is chaired by Mike Humphrey.
Its Continue to enhance Board oversight of risk, other members, as at 31 December 2015, were building on the work of the Audit Committee in Jonathan Brooks, Professor Lynn Gladden, Douglas 2015.
Liversidge and Dr Elaine Sullivan, ensuring a majority In addition to the above, the Non-executive Directors, of independent non-executive directors as prescribed led by the Senior Independent Director, appraised the by the Code.
The Nomination Committee meets as Chairmans performance following which the Senior and when required, or as requested by the Board, and Independent Director provided feedback to the met three times during 2015.
The attendance by each Chairman.
The performance of each of the Directors member of the Committee at the meetings during on the Board was reviewed by the Chairman and 2015 is set out on page 56. the operational performance of the other Executive Directors was reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer as part of the annual appraisal process.
In addition to the aforementioned annual reviews, the performance 58 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Governance Overview Alongside the ongoing selection process for a new In connection with any future appointments to the Chairman and building further on the work of the Board, the Committee will continue to adopt a formal, Committee in the final quarter of 2014 and the first rigorous and transparent procedure, including giving month of 2015 to review in detail the structure, full consideration to the balance, skills, knowledge, size and composition of the current Board, the independence and diversity including gender on Nomination Committee commenced its search for an the Board in advance of any new search to ensure additional Non-Executive Director in February 2015. a suitable balance is maintained see paragraph The Committee followed the following process in its headed Employee diversity on page 43 for further search for a new Non-executive Director: explanation of the considerations made by the Committee in this regard.
Consideration will also Following its evaluation of: i the balance of always be given to whether identified candidates current skills, knowledge, experience and diversity have enough time available to devote to the role.
including gender on the current Board: ii the identification of any skills, capabilities, areas The Committee intends to increase its focus on of expertise and or experience which were not succession planning, at Board level and for senior already present, or were under-represented, on leadership positions, through 2016, in line with the the current Board or which may be necessary or recommendation from the recent Board evaluation, desirable on the Board to supplement the existing and looks forward to working with the Groups members, the Nomination Committee instructed HR Director who was appointed in 2015 to further the Head of IP Exec, the Groups in-house formalise and enhance the approach.
In addition, executive search function, to produce a female developing and monitoring the internal talent pipeline only shortlist focussing on industrial life scientist is a continuous process at the Group and, whilst candidates.
The Nomination Committee gave due sound systems and procedures are in place to ensure consideration to using the services of an external the development of the Groups people throughout search agency as it had done in connection with the organisation, the Committee will continue to the new Chairman recruitment process but, given oversee a further enhancement of the same during the in-depth skill, knowledge and experience of IP 2016.
Exec in recruiting industry specialist non-executive Internal control directors, elected to use the in house service: The Board fully recognises the importance of the IP Exec produced a longlist within the above Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and remit, which the Committee narrowed down Related Financial and Business Reporting which, in to a shortlist of preferred candidates.
The September 2014, revised, integrated and replaced Nomination Committee and members of the the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Groups Executive Committee then interviewed Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined the shortlisted candidates, the outcome of which Code and Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: was the recommendation from the Nomination Guidance for Directors of UK Companies and reflects Committee to the Board for the appointment of changes made to the Code.
The Groups internal Dr Elaine Sullivan to the Board.
Dr Sullivan brings controls, which were Group-wide and were in place to the Board a wealth of industry experience during the whole of 2015, were reviewed by the Board in life sciences with over 25 years international of Directors and were considered to be effective experience in the pharmaceutical industry, throughout the year ended 31 December 2015. including senior roles at Eli Lilly and AstraZeneca, and is currently CEO at a specialist oncology company, Carrick Therapeutics, which she founded in early 2015: Dr Sullivan has also confirmed that she has sufficient time to discharge the requirements of the role.
The Board approved the Nomination Committees recommendation and Dr Elaine Sullivan was appointed with effect from 30 July 2015.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board is responsible for establishing and Register of Risks setting out mitigations in place in monitoring internal control systems and for reviewing each case.
The key risks and uncertainties faced by the effectiveness of these systems.
The Board views the Group, as well as the relevant mitigations, are the effective operation of a rigorous system of set out on pages 36 to 41.
Were more than one of internal control as critical to the success of the Group.
the risks to occur together, the overall impact on the However, it recognises that such systems can provide Group may be compounded.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against Information and financial reporting systems material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the Groups internal control system, all of which have The Group evaluates and manages significant been in place during the financial year and up to the risks associated with the process for preparing date these financial statements were approved, are as consolidated accounts by having in place systems follows: and controls that ensure adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded Control environment and procedures accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of The Group has a clear organisational structure with financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
It adopts Board approves the annual operating budgets and the highest values surrounding quality, integrity receives details of actual performance measured and ethics, and these values are documented against the budget each month.
and communicated clearly throughout the whole Relations with stakeholders organisation.
The Company is committed to a continuous dialogue Detailed written policies and procedures have been with shareholders as it believes that it is essential established covering key operating and compliance to ensure amongst its shareholders a greater risk areas.
These are reviewed and updated at least understanding of, and confidence in, the short, annually by the Board.
The Board considers that the medium and longer term strategy of the Group and controls have been effective for the year ended 31 in the Boards ability to oversee its implementation.
It December 2015. is the responsibility of the Board as a whole to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue takes place.
The Boards Identification and evaluation of principal primary shareholder contact is through the Chairman, risks and uncertainties Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer, The operations of the Group and the implementation Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial of its objectives and strategy are subject to a Officer.
The Boards primary contact with the limited number of key risks and uncertainties.
The Board partners and advisory boards of its managed funds actively identifies and evaluates the risks inherent is through the Chief Investment Officer and the Chief in the business, formally reviews these annually and Executive Officer.
The Senior Independent Director ensures that appropriate controls and procedures and other Directors make themselves available, as are in place to monitor and, where possible, mitigate appropriate, for contact with major shareholders these risks.
Specifically, all decisions relating to and other stakeholders in order to understand their strategic partnerships and other collaborations issues and concerns.
Where considered appropriate, and acquisitions entered into by the Group are major institutional shareholders are consulted on reserved for the Boards review and approval.
The significant changes to the Board and the structure of Board formally reviews the performance of the the Executive Directors remuneration.
Groups university partnerships and other strategic collaborations and relationships.
It also reviews equity investments on a quarterly basis, although performance of specific investments may be reviewed more frequently if deemed appropriate dependent on their relative size as regards the aggregate portfolio as a whole.
The Board maintains an up-to-date 60 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Governance Overview The Company uses the Annual General Meeting Going concern AGM as an opportunity to communicate with The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable its shareholders.
Notice of the AGM, which will be expectation that the Group will have adequate held at 1.00pm on 12 May 2016 at IP Group plc, 24 resources to continue in operational existence for Cornhill, London, EC3V 3ND, is enclosed with this the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue report.
In line with the Code, the Notice of AGM will to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days financial statements.
Details of the resolutions and the explanatory notes thereto are included with ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD the Notice.
To ensure compliance with the Code, Mike Humphrey Alan Aubrey the Board proposes separate resolutions for each Chairman Chief Executive Officer issue and proxy forms allow shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM, to vote for or against or to 29 February 2016 withhold their vote on each resolution.
The results of all proxy voting are published on the Groups website after the meeting and declared at the meeting itself to those shareholders who attend.
Shareholders who attend the AGM will have the opportunity to ask questions and all directors are expected to be available to take questions.
com is the primary source of information on the Group.
The website includes an overview of the activities of the Group: details of its portfolio companies, and its key university partnerships and other strategic collaborations: and details of all recent Group and portfolio announcements.
Political expenditure Although it is the Boards policy not to incur political expenditure or otherwise make cash contributions to political parties, and it has no intention of changing that policy, the CA 2006 is very broadly drafted in this area and the Board is concerned that it may include activities such as funding conferences or supporting certain bodies involved in policy review and law reform.
Accordingly, at the AGM held on 12 May 2015, the shareholders passed a resolution on a precautionary basis to authorise the Group to incur political expenditure as defined in Section 365 of CA 2006 not exceeding 50,000 in total at any time from 12 May 2015 up to the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
The Board intends to seek renewed authority for the Group to incur political expenditure of not more than 50,000 in total at the Companys 2016 AGM, to be held on 12 May 2016, which they might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of CA 2006.
