CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION FROM THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Committee has a crucial role in providing confidence in the integrity of the JONATHAN DAWSON Groups processes and procedures relating to internal control, risk management and financial reporting.
The Committee supports the Board in its assessment of whether the Annual Report The Committee and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provide sufficient has a crucial role in information to allow an assessment of the Group.
For the first time this year it also considered in detail the processes undertaken by management in order to meet the providing confidence new requirement on the Company to include a long-term viability statement in the in the integrity of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Companys processes This report focuses on the extensive work of the Committee during 2015, including its continued focus on the risks and controls in key areas of the Groups businesses.
and procedures The Committees work has reflected the further expansion of the Groups geographical footprint in areas including the US and EMEA: external challenges affecting the Groups key risk exposures such as slower economic growth and UK pension reform : and internal changes in business organisation, structure and leadership.
The Committee has also carried out in-depth reviews in a number of areas, including subsidiary companies: global sanctions regimes: and cyber risks.
As part of my role as Chairman of the Committee I have met with the external auditors,  LLP PwC, as well as Internal Audit, without management being present.
The Committee remains focused on ensuring that all relevant laws and regulations are complied with and that the business operates within the right control framework.
Yours sincerely, Jonathan Dawson Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee 1 March 2016 58 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMMITTEE COMPOSITION, SKILLS AND Eligible to Committee members Attended attend EXPERIENCE Jonathan Dawson Chairman 6 6 6 Committee Members Annette Court 6 6 6 Jonathan Dawson Chairman Richard Harvey 6 6 6 Annette Court 1 Lord Sassoon 6 5 6 Richard Harvey 2 6 5 6 Nicholas Walsh Lord Sassoon 1 Lord Sassoon was unable to attend the meeting held on 8 December 2015 due to travel Nicholas Walsh commitments in Asia.
2 Nicholas Walsh was unable to attend the meeting held on 27 January 2015 due to a prior The Committee comprises five Non-Executive Directors.
commitment advised before his appointment.
The Committee satisfies the requirements of the Code, with the exception of having one member, Lord Sassoon, who is Meetings are also held with Internal Audit and the external auditors not an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity to meet as a group or individually with The Board considers that the members of the Committee, the Chairman.
both individually and collectively, possess the necessary range of skills and experience to enable it to properly discharge its SUBSIDIARY ARCS responsibilities.
As part of the structure of governance across the Groups business Jonathan Dawson has been the Chairman of the Committee since units, JLT operates Entity ARCs designed to assist the local boards March 2013 and has over thirty years of experience in financial of all material businesses in managing their governance and services.
Lord Sassoon qualified as a Chartered Accountant controls effectively.
and has many years of experience in investment banking and Entity ARCs specifically focus on the oversight of significant risk, senior finance roles in government.
Richard Harvey is a fellow of audit and internal control matters affecting their businesses, the Institute of Actuaries and had a long career in the insurance together with their regulatory responsibilities.
Each Entity ARC is industry.
Both Annette Court and Nicholas Walsh have many chaired by a Non-Executive Director.
In addition to formal reporting years of experience in senior roles in the insurance industry.
Full to the Group ARC, there is a regular forum for Group and Entity biographies of each of the members of the Committee are set out ARC chairs to meet during the year and discuss issues of on pages 52 to 53. common interest.
In addition to the Committee members, a number of others attend meetings, by invitation, as listed below: COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES Committee Attendees The responsibilities of the Committee include monitoring and reviewing the following key areas in the ordinary course of business: Group Chairman the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, any formal Group Chief Executive announcements relating to the Groups financial performance Group Finance Director and significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: Group Commercial Director the Groups risk management framework, risk appetite and risk Group Head of Internal Audit strategy to ensure that these are appropriate to the activities of the Group: Group Head of Risk and Compliance Group General Counsel the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and External Auditors PwC risk management: the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function: COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE the effectiveness of the external audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements: The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the year, as in previous years.
The Committees terms of reference, which can the external auditors independence and objectivity, together be accessed on the Companys website, provide for additional with the policy on the engagement of the external auditors to ad hoc meetings to be held as and when necessary.
The table supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance below shows the Committee members during the year and their regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external attendance at meetings: auditors: and thematic and business risk reviews.
59 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES The table below summarises the main activities carried out by the Committee during 2015.
More detail on its activities is included below.
January February April July October December Financials Review of Draft Preliminary Statement 2014 Review of Draft Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Draft of Audit & Risk Committee Report Review of draft Interim Statement External Audit PwC year-end report Consideration of the Audit Plan Audit Fees Auditor Independence Other Issues Internal Audit Report Annual Review of Systems of Internal Control Risk Management & Compliance Review of Business Units Committee Evaluation 2015 Annual Report Disclosure In order to satisfy its responsibilities the Committee in the ordinary In addition to its regular agenda of matters, the Committee also course of business reviewed a wide range of matters: considered key and emerging risks in a number of business areas or Group support functions, which were supported by deep dive the drafting of the interim report, preliminary announcement presentations delivered by senior management and, in some cases, and the Annual Report and Financial Statements before their the Entity ARC chair of the relevant business area.
Key business submission to the Board: areas and topics reviewed included: reports from the Group Finance Director, including updates Asia UK Specialty on currency exposures, bank exposures and the treatment of exceptional items: Australia and NZ US Specialty reports from the Group Chief Operating Officer, including Canada Employee Benefits updates on the Groups existing and planned information Thistle UK Taxation technology resourcing and human resources: The Committee also considered the following topics during the year: reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on areas where control weaknesses had been identified, together with the an analysis of the increasing challenges associated with IT mitigation remediation plans of the management, the activities security and in particular cyber risk: within the function and resourcing matters: a review of the global sanctions regimes and their application reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit in respect of the across the Group: overall control environment: the potential introduction of a consistent limitation of liability reports from the Group Head of Risk and Compliance, programme across the Group, commensurate with the type and including updates on dealings with the regulators in the UK nature of services that each business offers: and in other jurisdictions: a review of the Groups approach to its three lines of defence reports from Group General Counsel in respect of material governance framework: litigation issues: a range of matters in relation to the regulatory environment, reports from the Companys external auditors, including any particularly in the newer areas of the Groups business.
matters relating to reports on the management of professional These matters included Enhanced Transfer Values, client money, indemnity risk exposure and the extent of any litigation Appointed Representatives, data protection and the UK Insurance provisions held: and Act 2015: and the effectiveness of the Committee.
the enhancement of the Groups crisis management framework.
Members of the Committee also visited a number of the Groups operations around the world during the year, where they met with senior management and in several cases attended local ARC and board meetings including Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore and New York.
60 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL STATEMENT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE The Committee considered a number of significant issues in the year, taking account in all instances of the views of the Companys external auditors.
The issues and how they were addressed by the Committee are detailed below: Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Revenue Recognition The Committee reviewed the revenue recognition practices with management and considered reports from the internal auditor and PwC, which included the results of substantive testing at the year-end including an understanding of the key internal controls over the revenue streams, the timing of revenue recognition and whether the Group appropriately recorded revenue taking into account contractual terms and performance obligations to customers.
Substantive testing over accrued and deferred revenue included evaluating the appropriateness of the key assumptions by considering the accuracy of prior year estimates against the current year realisation.
Complex arrangements around the Group were reviewed, such as third party pay-away arrangements to ensure there is appropriate revenue recognition in line with the Group accounting policy, IFRS and the terms of the contract.
The Committee concluded that management operates an appropriate control environment to manage the risk of material misstatement of revenue.
Intangibles Impairment The Committee reviewed managements process for testing goodwill and other intangible assets for Assessment potential impairment.
This included the results of managements impairment assessment, including an assessment of the appropriateness of the methodology used to perform this and the substantive testing done by PwC of all inputs into the valuation such as agreeing to approved budgets and checking historical performance against the budget.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the key assumptions within managements valuation, in particular the terminal growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and the weighted average cost of capital WACC by assessing the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations and the Committee concluded that they are appropriate.
Pension Liability Valuation The Committee discussed the maintenance of complete and accurate pension scheme data on which the pension liability assumptions are based and noted that no exceptions had been found from testing.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the methodology used by management including the key assumptions used to value the pension liabilities.
The key assumptions include the appropriateness of the discount rate used for the UK scheme by reference to the iBoxx AA 15 corporate bond index: the adjustment made by management to match the duration of the liabilities and compared this to assumptions adopted by other schemes with a similar duration: the rates used by management for each of these elements to the Bank of England inflation curve: and the appropriateness of the base tables selected for use by management by reference to the mortality experience analysis, completed by the UK Pension Scheme Trustees as part of the 2014 funding valuation.
The Committee concluded that that the key assumptions made were reasonable and that the overall pension deficit is appropriately calculated Litigation Provisions The Committee members received and reviewed errors and omissions and other litigation reports addressing key disputes, and discussed with management the key judgements made, including relevant legal advice that may have been received.
The Committee members also discussed litigation provisions with PwC, and received reports from Internal Audit and Group Risk and Compliance on quality controls designed to minimise the incidents of errors and omissions.
As a result, it was determined that the overall provision is appropriate, but it was recognised that due to the nature of the inherent uncertainties of litigation the final results could differ.
REPORTING TO THE BOARD The Committee Chairman provides regular updates to the Board on the key issues discussed at the Committees meetings.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW An internal review of the Committees effectiveness was carried out in respect of 2015.
Each member and regular attendee of the Committee was asked to complete a questionnaire and the feedback was discussed by the Committee.
The results of the review were generally very positive, with the Committee seen as functioning well and covering the right ground.
Discussions were felt to be of a high quality and there was open and constructive debate pitched at the right level, with effective challenge where appropriate.
Some opportunities were identified to make Committee papers more concise, focused and consistent, and to ensure that the key risks of the business are effectively reported to the Committee and discussed by it.
61 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT NON-AUDIT FEES The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to the To safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit IA function.
There were oversees the process for the approval of non-audit services no changes to the terms of reference for the function, or the holder provided by PwC.
Prior to approval, consideration is given to of the Group Head of Internal Audit position, during the period.
whether it is in the interests of the Company that the services are The Committee believes that Group Internal Audit is effective.
purchased from PwC, rather than another supplier.
Where PwC An external review of effectiveness has been scheduled to take place were chosen to provide non-audit services during the year, this in the first half of 2016, in accordance with Chartered Institute of was as a result of their detailed knowledge of the structure of our Internal Auditors standards, and the Committees terms of reference.
business, combined with an understanding of JLTs industry, which together made them the best supplier to carry out the relevant work During 2015, the Committee reviewed, evaluated and monitored: cost-effectively.
the independence of the IA function: All non-audit related work is required to be pre-advised to the the annual Internal Audit plan, and other audit activities Group Finance function.
Work with a fee value of 10,000 or less undertaken by the function: is required to be approved by the regional Finance Director.
Work with a fee exceeding 10,000 is also required to be approved reports from the Head of Group Internal Audit on the results by the Group Finance function.
of audit work performed, and the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control: The following table illustrates the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to PwC in 2015 compared with 2014: co-ordination between the internal and external auditors, and other control functions within the Group: 2015 2014 000 000 managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors, and the monitoring of Audit 2,653 2,535 follow up actions relating thereto: Non-audit 742 495 the adequacy of the resources of the internal audit function, including plans for managing that resource to meet the Total 3,395 3,030 demands of the business: and Total spend on non-audit services as 22% 16% the overall effectiveness of the Group Head of Internal Audit and % of the total fees paid to PwC the IA function in promoting and influencing improvements in The increase in spend on non-audit fees in part is related to work on FRS 101 for the UK the Groups internal control environment.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS EXTERNAL AUDITOR ROTATION The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to the PwC have been the Groups external auditors since 1991. appointment of the external auditors, PwC, and for overseeing the The Committee has been kept up to date with the development of relationship with them.
During the year, the Committee: new EU-wide regulations concerning audit tenure and the longevity of agreed PwCs remuneration for both audit and non-audit audit firm relationships with the companies they audit.
Under current services, including satisfying itself that the level of audit fee was EU transitional arrangements, it is anticipated that the last financial appropriate to enable an adequate audit to be carried out: year that PwC would audit the Groups accounts would be that ending 31 December 2019.
The current audit partner took up his approved the external audit plan and ensured that it was role in 2015. consistent with the scope of the audit engagement: Continuity and consistency of audit quality are important, but the approved the terms of engagement, including the engagement Committee is mindful of the fact that PwC have been in place as the letter issued at the start of each audit, and the scope of Companys auditors for 24 years without re-tender and it remains the the audit: Companys intention to initiate an audit re-tendering process in 2018. assessed PwCs independence, including in relation to nonThe Company believes that this timing is appropriate as it aligns audit services provided: with the rotation cycle for the current audit engagement partner.
reviewed the findings of the Group audit, including discussion There are no contractual obligations that would restrict the selection of any major issues arising, and any accounting and of a different auditor.
audit judgements: RISK REVIEW PROCESS evaluated the effectiveness of PwC by way of a questionnaire distributed to senior finance staff across the Group, the results A description of the processes followed by the Group to identify and of which were discussed with PwC and the Committee: and manage risk is included in the Risk Management Report on pages 40 to 42. held meetings with PwC without management present.
The Chair of the Committee also met privately with PwC at other times.
PwC also report regularly on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
62 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE STATEMENT At the request of the Board, the Committee carried out a detailed review of the robust processes which were followed in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and reported the results of that review to the Board.
The review also supported the Directors in satisfying themselves that they could make the statement on page 85 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
For and on behalf of the Board Jonathan Dawson Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee 1 March 2016 63 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
