OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance GEOFFREY HOWE Report.
We believe that how JLT does business is as important as what it does and we are committed to delivering the highest standards of corporate governance in order to drive sustainable business performance for the benefit We are committed to of all our stakeholders.
delivering the highest In the following pages you will find details of how JLT approaches governance, standards of corporate including the operation of the Board and its Committees and an explanation of how we comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
You will also find governance a summary of the output from the latest review of the Boards effectiveness, whose overall conclusions were very positive.
This section also includes reports from each of the Board Committees.
We also recognise the importance of effective corporate governance throughout the Group and of having robust governance structures and processes in all our businesses.
You will see from the explanation on page 81 that there are three areas in which we do not fully comply with the Code, and the associated reasons.
Our relationship with the Jardine Matheson Group Jardine Matheson is important to us and their strength and support has been, and will continue to be, an important factor in the success of JLT.
The relationship with Jardine Matheson is governed by a Relationship Agreement, which is described on pages 55 to 56.
Geoffrey Howe Chairman 1 March 2016 51 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS PROFILES GEOFFREY HOWE DOMINIC BURKE LORD LEACH OF FAIRFORD Chairman, Group Chief Executive Deputy Chairman, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Geoffrey Howe was appointed a Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Lord Leach was Chairman of Jardine Non-Executive Director in January 2002 Thompson in 2000, when the Burke Ford Insurance Brokers, latterly JIB Group plc, and became Joint Deputy Chairman in Group of companies, of which he was between 1988 and 1997.
Chief Executive and co-founder, became Deputy Chairman of the Company in part of JLT.
He was appointed Chairman in April 2006 and is a member of the Nominations He was appointed Chief Executive of the He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
UK & Ireland Insurance Broking business and Committee and a member of the the Groups Employee Benefits businesses Remuneration Committee.
Geoffrey is a non-executive director of in 2000 and was appointed a Director and Close Brothers Group Plc.
He was formerly His other directorships include Jardine Chief Operating Officer of Jardine Lloyd Chairman of Nationwide Building Society, Matheson Holdings, Rothschild Continuation Thompson Group plc in January 2005.
Chairman of Railtrack Group plc, a director AG and other Jardine Matheson Group of Investec plc, group general counsel of Dominic was appointed Group Chief companies.
He is also a member of the Robert Fleming Holdings and managing Executive in December 2005.
He was supervisory board of Rothschild & Co partner of Clifford Chance.
appointed a non-executive director and formerly Paris Orlans.
Deputy Chairman of Newbury Racecourse plc in November 2010 and became its Chairman in June 2011.
RICHARD HARVEY CHARLES ROZES LORD SASSOON, Kt Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Richard Harvey was appointed a NonCharles Rozes joined JLT on 1 September Lord Sassoon joined the Board in April Executive Director in December 2009.
He is a member of the Audit & Risk, member of the Group Executive Committee.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, a member of the Audit & Risk He joined the Group from Barclays where, He began his career at KPMG, before joining and Nominations Committees, and is the since 2011, he had held the role of Global Warburg later UBS Warburg in 1985.
2002 to 2006 he was in the United Kingdom Treasury as a civil servant, where he had He enjoyed a long and successful career Prior to that, he was Chief Financial Officer of responsibility for financial services and enterprise in the insurance industry, principally with Barclays UK Retail and Business Banking.
Following this, he chaired the Financial Norwich Union, where he was Chief Executive Charles has also held senior roles at Bank of Action Task Force: and conducted a review of from 1998 to 2000, and subsequently America, IBM and .
the UKs system of financial regulation.
with Aviva plc, where he was Group Chief Executive from 2001 to 2007.
From 2010 to 2013 Lord Sassoon was the first Commercial Secretary to the Treasury He was also Chair of the Association of and acted as the Governments Front Bench British Insurers ABI from 2003 to 2005.
Treasury spokesman in the House of Lords.
He is non-executive Chairman of PZ Cussons Plc and is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
He is a director of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited and other Jardine Matheson Group companies, having joined the Jardine Matheson Group in January 2013.
He is also Chairman of the China-Britain Business Council, a Trustee of the British Museum and is a member of the Global Advisory Board of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. and of the European Advisory Panel of All Nippon Airways Co. Ltd. 52 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNETTE COURT MARK DRUMMOND BRADY JONATHAN DAWSON Non-Executive Director Deputy Group CEO Non-Executive Director Annette Court was appointed a NonMark Drummond Brady has been with JLT Jonathan Dawson was appointed a NonExecutive Director in August 2012. since 1987 and has held a number of senior Executive Director in August 2012.
She is a member of the Audit & Risk, posts in the Group.
He is a member of the Nominations and Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He was the Groups International Chairman Remuneration Committees and was Annette has extensive insurance industry of Risk & Insurance until 1 September 2014, appointed Chairman of the Audit & Risk when he relinquished that role and became experience.
Between 2007 and 2010 she was Committee on 5 March 2013.
Chief Executive Officer for Europe General the Deputy Group CEO.
Jonathan is a non-executive director of Insurance for Zurich Financial Services and a Mark was appointed a Director of Jardine National Grid plc and chairman of Penfida member of the Group Executive Committee.
Lloyd Thompson Group plc in March 2011 Limited.
His career experience includes She is a former Chief Executive Officer of and is a member of the Group Executive eight years in the UK Ministry of Defence RBS insurance, the insurance division of Committee.
and over 20 years in investment banking RBS Group which owned the Direct Line with Lazard.
In recent years he has served and Churchill brands.
In this role she was as the senior independent non-executive also a member of the RBS Group Executive director of Next plc and as a non-executive Management Committee.
director of Galliford Try plc, National Australia Annette is a non-executive director of Admiral Group Europe Ltd and Standard Life Group plc and Foxtons Group plc and has Investments Holdings Limited.
previously served as a member of the board of the ABI.
JAMES TWINING NICHOLAS WALSH Group Commercial Director Non-Executive Director James Twining joined JLT from McKinsey & Nicholas Walsh joined the Board in October Co. as Group Strategy Director in January 2014.
He is a member of the Audit & Risk, 2011, having previously worked as an Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
investment banker and as the CFO COO of He has held a variety of underwriting, a private equity backed technology startup.
distribution and senior management roles He was appointed to the Board as Group in the insurance industry, with a career of Commercial Director in August 2012 and is a 42 years with American International Group, member of the Group Executive Committee.
His most recent roles were Vice Chairman AIG Property & Casualty Inc.
He is the International Chairman of Thistle Chairman of AIG Europe Limited and AIG and a board member of Thistle Insurance Asia Pacific Insurance Pte.
Prior to this Services Ltd. he was President and CEO of American He is also a Trustee of the English Heritage International Underwriters.
Nicholas is CEO Champion of the Womens Forum and Chairman of British American Business Inc. 53 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED STRUCTURE AT A GLANCE The chart below sets out the composition of the Board and its committees: Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc JLT Group Board Geoffrey Howe Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Lord Leach of Fairford Deputy Chairman Dominic Burke Group Chief Executive Annette Court Mark Drummond Brady Deputy Group CEO Jonathan Dawson Charles Rozes Group Finance Director Richard Harvey Senior Independent Director James Twining Group Commercial Director Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Jonathan Dawson Chairman Richard Harvey Chairman Lord Leach of Fairford Chairman Annette Court Annette Court Annette Court Richard Harvey Jonathan Dawson Jonathan Dawson Lord Sassoon Lord Leach of Fairford Richard Harvey Nicholas Walsh Lord Sassoon Geoffrey Howe Nicholas Walsh Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh Read more on page 58 Read more on page 67 Read more on page 64 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND GROUP COMMITTEES The work of the Board is supported by the Audit & Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit & Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee can be found at jlt.
com and their respective reports can be found on pages 58 to 80 of this report.
The Board delegates responsibility for the management of the Group, development of the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board and implementation of the agreed strategy to the Group Chief Executive, Dominic Burke.
The Group Executive Committee operates to support the Group Chief Executive in the running of the Group.
Further details of the composition of the Group Executive Committee can be found on page 27.
In January 2016 the Group also established a Disclosure Committee, which oversees the Groups compliance with its disclosure obligations.
The Committee is not a Committee of the Board, but reports to the Board or Group ARC as appropriate.
The Committee is chaired by Charles Rozes.
54 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS DURING THE YEAR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board of Directors, as at the date of this report, are profiled on The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element pages 52 to 53.
The Board comprises four Executive Directors and on the Board.
They are well placed to constructively challenge seven Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Between them they bring independent judgement and a breadth of skills and experience.
BOARD CHANGES SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Mike Reynolds relinquished the post of Group Finance Director on 1 September 2015, having served nearly three years on the Board.
Richard Harvey has the role of Senior Independent Director and acts On the same date Charles Rozes became Group Finance Director.
as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary Mike is now Global CEO of JLT Re.
He is also available as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
He leads the Chairmans annual performance evaluation.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible for approving the strategy of the Group GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY and overseeing its implementation: reviewing the performance of management: ensuring that appropriate systems of internal controls The Group Company Secretary, Jonathan Lloyd, acts as Secretary and risk management are in place: and ensuring that the right to the Board and all of its Committees and works with the Group resources are in place throughout the Group to achieve the delivery Chairman and Chairmen of the Boards Committees to provide of long-term value to shareholders.
support for the smooth operation of those bodies.
He advises the Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance matters.
Other matters reserved for decision by the Board include material acquisitions and disposals: approval of financial results DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND announcements: approval of the Annual Report and shareholder INDEPENDENT ADVICE circulars: share and other capitalisation issues: and dividend recommendations.
The Companies Act requires directors to disclose their interests During the year the Board spent its time considering a wide range of and external appointments and to avoid any conflicts of interest.
matters, including: The Board has formal processes in place for the declaration and management of conflicts of interest and the Group Company Strategy: Secretary maintains a Conflicts of Interest Register.
On appointment, The performance of key businesses and functions in the Group: new Directors are advised of the process for dealing with conflicts of interest and Directors interests are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Budgets and long-term plans for the Group: JLTs relationship with Jardine Matheson is disclosed below.
Financial statements and announcements: There is a procedure in place under which any Director may take Cashflow, financing and dividends: independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, relating Growth and development: to the performance of any aspect of their duties.
This is facilitated by the Group Company Secretary.
Risk management, internal controls and compliance: Reports from brokers and analysts: and RELATIONSHIP WITH JARDINE MATHESON GROUP People matters, including succession planning.
The Group continued to have a number of arms-length trading links with the Jardine Matheson Group of companies during the CHAIRMAN financial year, which are set out in note 32 on page 152.
At 19 February 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to the date of The role of the Chairman, Geoffrey Howe, is to lead and manage this report Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited Jardine Matheson the business of the Board and to provide direction and focus, while Holdings had an interest in 40.17% of the Companys issued ensuring that there is a clear structure for the effective operation capital.
This interest is held through JMH Investments Limited, a of the Board and its Committees.
He sets the agenda for Board wholly-owned subsidiary of Jardine Matheson Holdings.
discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to support a sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board On 23 October 2014, the Company entered into a Relationship receives accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about Agreement the Agreement with Jardine Matheson Holdings, as the Groups performance.
The Agreement is intended to ensure that Jardine Matheson Holdings, as the Groups controlling The Chairman works closely with the Group Chief Executive to shareholder, complies with certain independence provisions.
It ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are contains undertakings that transactions and arrangements with effectively implemented.
He also provides support and advice to the Jardine Matheson Holdings and or any of its associates will be Group Chief Executive, while respecting his executive responsibility conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: that for managing the Group.
The division of responsibilities between the neither Jardine Matheson Holdings nor its associates will take any Chairman and the Group Chief Executive has been clearly defined action which could prevent the Company from complying with and has been agreed by the Board.
its Listing Rules obligations: and that neither Jardine Matheson Holdings nor its associates will propose any shareholder resolution intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
55 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board confirms that, since the date of entry into the Agreement, of information to Jardine Matheson and concluded that these the Group has complied with its provisions and that, so far as the processes should be formalised.
In March 2016 an updated version Company is aware, Jardine Matheson Holdings and its associates of the Agreement was signed with Jardine Matheson, clarifying have also complied with the independence and procurement when and how information may be requested by Jardine Matheson obligations set out in the Agreement.
During the year the Company from JLT.
reviewed the processes it has in place to control the provision BOARD EXPERIENCE AND BALANCE Following review, the Board remains satisfied that it continues to have the appropriate balance of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge to run the business effectively and deliver long-term shareholder value.
The chart below provides an overview of experience of each of the Directors: Name Position Committee Length of service Independent Other public Operational Insurance International Legal M&A Finance Government membership as at 31 as Board member board experience industry experience experience experience experience Dec 2015 as at 31 Dec 2015 experience experience Geoffrey Howe Non-Executive Chairman 14 years No - - Member of NC Annette Court Non-Executive Director 3 years, 5 months - - Member of ARC, RC, NC Jonathan Dawson Non-Executive Director 3 years, 5 months - - Chairman ARC Member of RC, NC Richard Harvey Non-Executive Director 6 years - Chairman RC Member of ARC, NC Lord Leach Non-Executive Director 18 years, 11 months No - - Chairman NC Member of RC Nicholas Walsh Non-Executive Director 1 year, 3 months - - - Member of ARC, RC, NC Lord Sassoon Non-Executive Director 2 years, 8 months No - Member of ARC, RC, NC Dominic Burke Group Chief Executive 11 years N A - Mark Drummond Brady Deputy Group CEO 4 years, 10 months N A - - - Charles Rozes Group Finance Director 4 months N A - - - James Twining Group Commercial Director 3 years, 5 months N A - - Key: ARC Audit & Risk Committee RC Remuneration Committee NC Nominations Committee BOARD MEETINGS The Board held six scheduled meetings during the year and the attendance of the Directors is set out in the following table: Eligible to Attend Attended Geoffrey Howe 6 6 6 Dominic Burke 6 6 6 Annette Court 6 6 6 Jonathan Dawson 6 6 6 1 Mark Drummond Brady 6 4 6 Richard Harvey 6 6 6 Lord Leach of Fairford 6 6 6 Mike Reynolds 4 4 4 Charles Rozes 2 2 2 Lord Sassoon 6 6 6 James Twining 6 6 6 2 Nicholas Walsh 6 5 6 1 Mark Drummond Brady was unable to attend the Board meeting on 30 January 2015 due to a clash of prior commitments and the meeting on 1 May 2015 due to travelling on business in Asia.
2 Nicholas Walsh was unable to attend the Board meeting held on 30 January 2015 due to a prior commitment advised before his appointment.
56 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors attendance at Committee meetings is set out in the SUCCESSION PLANNING respective Committee reports on pages 58 to 80.
Succession planning and talent development has been a key During the year Board members also visited New York in order agenda item for the Board in the year, as described in greater detail to meet with the North American leadership team.
The visit also in the Nominations Committee Report on page 65.
Substantial provided the opportunity to hold events with prospective clients progress has been made during the year in promoting talent across and other US stakeholders.
the Group and the Board is confident that there is a strong senior management succession pipeline.
DIRECTORS TRAINING ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Members of the Board are provided with regular training in order to keep them abreast of industry and legal and regulatory The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of developments, facilitated by external professional advisers where internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Following Charles Rozes appointment on 1 September The implementation and maintenance of the risk management 2015, he was provided with a comprehensive induction programme and internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive covering all aspects of the Groups business, including its strategy, Directors and senior management.
The systems are designed to operations and control systems and processes.
The induction also mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business covered the legal and governance obligations faced by Charles as objectives and can provide only reasonable assurance, but not a listed company Director.
As part of the induction programme, absolute assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
meetings were organised with the Companys key executives and external advisers, as well as a number of site visits.
RISK MANAGEMENT BOARD PERFORMANCE REVIEW The Groups approach to Risk Management is discussed in the Finance Directors Review and the Risk Management Report, where The Boards performance is reviewed annually.
Following the the process undertaken in preparing the financial results is also  review of the Board and Committees in 2013 outlined.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of and an internally-led review in 2014, the review in 2015 was the principal risks facing the company, including those that would again carried out internally.
Directors were asked to complete threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or a questionnaire and the Chairman then met with each Director liquidity.
The Companys Risk Management Report is on pages 40 individually to discuss their views.
The results were shared and to 42. discussed by the Board and were generally very positive, with the Board seen as functioning well and covering the right ground.
The Group takes a holistic approach to Risk Management and the Discussions were felt to be of a high quality and there was felt to control environment.
Responsibility and accountability are shared be open and constructive debate pitched at the right level, with across all Group companies, with ultimate responsibility resting with effective challenge where appropriate.
Some opportunities were the Board.
Further details on the internal controls are set out in the identified to make board papers more concise, focused Risk Management Report.
Each operating company maintains controls and procedures It is the Boards intention to carry out an  appropriate to its own business and regulatory environment, while review in 2016.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
Independent Director, also carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman during this period.
RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board is keen to engage with shareholders and takes all BOARD DIVERSITY their views seriously.
Our institutional shareholders have regular The Board supports the Codes recommendation that diversity and engagement with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group gender should be considered when making Director appointments.
Finance Director and or our Head of Investor Relations, and the The Board aims to ensure that it has the right balance of skills and Board is regularly updated on shareholder views.
The Non-Executive experience, independence and knowledge to enable it to discharge Directors are available to meet with institutional shareholders to its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Boards policy is to discuss any matters relating to the Company.
select the best candidate irrespective of background.
The Boards approach to diversity is covered in more detail in the Nominations Committee Report on page 66.
57 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
