CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION FROM THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
LORD LEACH It has been an active year for the Committee.
A key area of focus has been succession planning for both the Board and senior management.
A key area of focus As mentioned by Geoffrey Howe in his Chairmans Statement, the year saw a number of significant senior management changes, with the appointment of has been succession Charles Rozes as the new Group Finance Director following Mike Reynolds planning move to become Global CEO of JLT Re: Bala Viswanathans move from Group COO to CEO of UK Employee Benefits: the appointments of Paul Knowles to the position of CEO, and Lucy Clarke to the role of Deputy CEO, of JLT Specialty: and the appointments of Dominic Samengo-Turner as CEO, and Warren Downey as Deputy CEO and COO, of JLT Asia.
Another key area of focus during the year has been diversity.
A diversity forum has been created within the JLT Group, headed by Mark Drummond Brady, Deputy Group CEO, and JLT sponsored Dive In, which is the first market-wide festival for diversity and inclusion in insurance broking.
I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their service and commitment to this Committee in the year.
Lord Leach Chairman, Nominations Committee 1 March 2016 64 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee comprises Lord Leach, Chairman of the Committee, The Committee is responsible for leading the process for Board the other Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
appointments and making recommendations to the Board.
Such The majority of the Committee members are independent Nonappointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
We believe that the Committee composition is In considering new appointments, the Committee evaluates the currently appropriate, but we will continue to keep it under review.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and in the light of the evaluation, prepares a description of the role and The Committee reviewed the balance of the Board and the other capabilities required for a particular appointment.
commitments of its Non-Executive Directors during the year.
As part of this review it was concluded that the Chairman of the The Committees Terms of Reference may be found on the Board, Geoffrey Howe, has sufficient time available to fulfil his role JLT website.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three years.
However, each Director is subject to election or re-election every year at the Key activities during the year AGM.
The continuing effectiveness and independence of board Succession Planning recruitment process members is reviewed more rigorously as their length of tenure increases.
Terms and conditions for the appointment of NonSenior management appointments Executive Directors are available on jlt.
Diversity During the year the Committee met three times.
In addition, Committee effectiveness review there were informal discussions between its Chairman and other Evaluation of skills knowledge of directors members.
The table below shows the Committee members attendance during 2015. Review of the Committees annual report Eligible to Attended During the year the Committee discussed candidates for the attend position of Group Finance Director, following the move of Mike 3 3 3 Lord Leach of Fairford Chairman Reynolds to be the Global CEO of JLT Re.
It had been agreed Annette Court 3 3 3 that Mike would manage a dual role whilst the search process was undertaken, and would relinquish the role of Group Finance Jonathan Dawson 3 3 3 Director once his successor was appointed.
The process followed Richard Harvey 3 3 3 was to review the job description and to provide a search brief to Geoffrey Howe 3 3 3 the Companys Executive search agents, Per Ardua Associates Limited Per Ardua.
A list of candidates was then reviewed and Lord Sassoon 3 3 3 interviews were held with the Chairman and other Non-Executive 1 Nicholas Walsh 3 2 3 and Executive Directors.
A shortlist was prepared and the process concluded with the appointment of Charles Rozes as an Executive 1 Nicholas Walsh was unable to attend the meeting held on 30 January 2015 due Director of the Company with effect from 1 September 2015.
Per to a prior commitment advised before his appointment Ardua has no links with the JLT Group other than providing the executive search service.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and, where appropriate, the Group Chief Executive and Group HR SUCCESSION PLANNING Director attend Committee meetings.
One of the key roles of the Committee is to discuss succession planning, to ensure that a pipeline of talent is recognised and nurtured within the business.
It is important that internal talent be retained within the Group in order to leverage the skills and experience at our senior leadership level.
Senior key staff and their contributions are reviewed in the year with a view to succession planning.
The Committee is working to ensure that its succession planning looks ahead over multiple years, covers any identified skill shortages and pays particular attention to the Chairman and CEO.
65 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION In reviewing Board composition, the Committee aims to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience, and background on the Board, by considering all aspects of diversity including gender.
In identifying suitable candidates to recommend for appointment to the Board, the Committee considers candidates on merit against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board to achieve the most effective Board possible.
During the year a Diversity Forum was created, headed by the Deputy Group CEO, and a series of initiatives have commenced around the Group.
These include engagement with external groups and employees.
The Board supports the Codes recommendation that diversity and gender should be considered when making Board appointments.
The Board believes that diversity should be considered broadly and our primary objective is to achieve the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable each Board member, and the Board as a whole, to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Selection of the best candidate, irrespective of background, is the JLT philosophy.
The Board fully endorses the recommendations made by Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report issued in 2011 on Women on Boards, recognises the benefits of having a diverse Board, and is committed to achieving a Board which includes and makes the best use of differences in culture, gender, skills, background, regional, financial & industry experience and other qualities.
For and on behalf of the Board Lord Leach Chairman, Nomination Committee 1 March 2016 66 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
