50 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder, Welcome to our first remuneration report as a newly listed company.
The aim of our remuneration policy is to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior managers.
This policy also aims to focus them on the delivery of the strategic and business objectives of the Group, to promote the long-term success of the Company and its affiliates, to create a strong and sustainable performance culture and to align the interests of management with those of shareholders.
In promoting these objectives, the remuneration policy has been structured so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee, has reviewed the policy put in place at Admission and considers that it continues to remain appropriate.
This report is split into two sections: Directors Remuneration Policy this sets out the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Chairman and non-executive directors.
The Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM: and Annual Report on Remuneration this sets out in detail how the remuneration policy has been applied in 2015, the remuneration received by Directors for the year and how the policy will be applied in 2016.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, together with this introductory letter, will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE How the remuneration policy supports our business strategy Our remuneration policy is designed to support the Groups strategy as summarised below: Strategy To create value for shareholders through originating, investing in and managing infrastructure assets internationally Remuneration Policy Focus on performance-related Use of share-based incentives Performance targets which pay, with the emphasis on and share ownership guidelines support sustainable long-term long-term performance for executives value creation SUMMARY OF THE CURRENT REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element Description Opportunity Base pay Salaries are set taking into account the experience of the Current salaries are 430,000 for the Chief Executive Director, his her role and responsibilities.
Officer and 333,000 for the Group Finance Director.
Benefits Private medical insurance, life insurance, permanent health Market competitive.
insurance and, for Patrick OD Bourke, a car allowance.
Pension Cash allowance in lieu of pension.
Bonus Annual bonus is determined by reference to corporate and Up to 100% of salary 60% of salary at target.
Any bonus above target 60% of salary is deferred into shares vesting in equal tranches over one, two and three years subject to continued employment.
LTIP Shares vest after three years subject to continued Current award levels are 175% of salary per annum for employment and the achievement of NAV per share and Total the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary per Shareholder Return TSR targets with 50% of the award on annum for the Group Finance Director within a policy each measure.
Executive Directors are required to retain maximum of 200% of salary per annum.
the net of tax number of any shares vesting under the LTIP for a further two years post-vesting.
The performance measures for the 2015 Bonus and the 2015 LTIP awards are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 59.
Variable Fixed John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 REMUNERATION RECEIVED BY THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR 2015 Long-Term 1 2 3 000 Salary Benefits Pension Bonus Incentives Other Total Olivier Brousse 429 2 54 300 nil 750 1,535 Patrick OD Bourke 333 12 43 233 nil 800 1,421 1 Cash allowance in lieu of pension is paid net of employers national insurance.
2 Bonuses were based on an assessment of corporate and individual performance objectives see page 59 for further details.
3 This relates to the vesting of pre-IPO incentive arrangements see page 59 for further details.
REMUNERATION FOR 2016 In terms of application of the policy for 2016: The salaries remain unchanged from those set at IPO.
The structure and operation of the bonus remain unchanged.
The bonus maximum remains 100% of salary.
Bonuses will continue to be based on corporate and personal performance.
The metrics used to assess corporate performance for 2016 will be: NAV Distributions excluding from non-portfolio assets Disposals New investments Value enhancements Profit Before Tax.
Disclosure of the performance targets used to determine the size of the 2016 bonus awards will be set out in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual LTIP awards will be granted at 175% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director as in 2015.
The awards will continue to be based 50% on relative TSR and 50% on growth in NAV per share.
Details of the performance targets to be applied to the 2016 awards are shown on page 62.
Annual fees for the Chairman and the non-executive directors are the same as those applying for 2015.
SUMMARY The aim of this report is to communicate how much our Executive Directors are earning and how this is clearly linked to performance.
We are committed to maintaining an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders and I welcome any comments you may have.
I very much hope that you will support the resolutions on remuneration at the AGM.
We firmly believe that the remuneration policy is right for the Company and that it will continue to motivate and incentivise our senior team to deliver the Companys strategy.
Anne Wade CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 7 March 2016 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 52 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Directors.
The report is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at our forthcoming AGM on 12 May 2016 and will be effective from that date.
The policy is consistent with that set out in the Companys Prospectus issued at IPO.
Remuneration policy table The table below sets out the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Link to performance Maximum opportunity Base To provide a Reviewed annually by the Committee Base salary levels are While there is no maximum salary core reward with effect from 1 January or, if set at a level to reflect salary, increases will normally for the role at appropriate, following a change in an the experience, skills be in line with the typical level a sufficient individuals position or responsibilities.
and responsibilities of of increase awarded to other level to recruit the individual as well as employees of the Group.
Benchmarked periodically against relevant and retain the scope and scale of market comparators, including companies However, increases above this individuals of their role.
of a similar size and complexity and other level may be offered in certain the necessary broadly comparable companies.
Increases to base salary circumstances such as where calibre to will reflect individual an Executive Director has been execute the performance and promoted, has had a change Companys contribution as well as in responsibilities, to reflect business the pay and conditions increased experience in the role, strategy.
for other employees of or where there has been a the Group.
significant change in the size and or scope of the business.
For details of salary levels from 1 January 2016 see the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 62.
Benefits To operate a Provision of benefits such as private Not applicable The cost of the benefit provision competitive medical insurance, life insurance, varies from year-to-year and benefits permanent health insurance, company there is no prescribed maximum structure for sick pay and a car allowance.
The Committee monitors Executive annually the overall cost of the Executive Directors are also eligible to Directors that benefits provided to ensure that participate in any all-employee share aids in their it remains appropriate.
plans operated by the Company, in line recruitment with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing, and retention.
on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Additional benefits may be provided from time to time if the Committee decides payment of such benefits is appropriate, for example, if this is in line with emerging market practice or to facilitate the relocation of an Executive Director.
Each Executive Director is entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties including any tax payable thereon.
Pension To offer The Company may provide a cash Not applicable 15% of salary market allowance in lieu of a contribution to a competitive pension scheme, contribute an amount to levels of a money purchase pension scheme or pension and provide for a combination of the two to recognise depending on the circumstances long-term of the individual.
