John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE The Audit Committees the Committee terms of reference include all matters covered by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
Its terms of reference are reviewed at least annually and referred to the Board for approval.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: 1.
Scrutinise the Group and Company financial statements, preliminary announcements, any trading updates and other public statements relating to financial performance and position: 2. Review the content of the annual and interim report and accounts and advise the Board on whether, as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys financial affairs, business model and strategy: 3.
Monitor the efficacy of the Groups internal financial and other controls: 4.
Monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Groups risk management systems: 5.
Consider and recommend to the Board the appointment, reappointment, resignation or removal of the Groups external auditor, subject to approval by the Companys shareholders at the AGM: 6.
Negotiate and agree on behalf of the Board the external auditors remuneration, including fees for any non-audit services performed: 7.
Assess the external auditors independence and objectivity and the overall effectiveness of the external audit process: and 8.
Report to the Board how it has discharged its responsibilities.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE The members of the Committee are all independent non-executive directors who have served throughout the period from Admission in February 2015 until the date of this report.
They are: Toby Hiscock Chairman Jeremy Beeton David Rough The Committee Chairman is deemed to have up to date relevant financial experience.
Further details on the qualifications and experience of the Audit Committee members can be found on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee met five times during the year.
The Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor attended all meetings, including a private meeting with the Committee without management present.
The Committee Chairman attends each AGM of the Company and is prepared to answer any questions from shareholders on matters falling within the Committees responsibility.
SIGNIFICANT MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN RESPECT OF THE 2015 GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Pro forma presentation: The Group financial statements include financial statements presented on a pro forma basis that assumes the restructuring relating to the Companys IPO in February 2015 and the Groups current corporate banking facility were in place throughout the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
The restructuring and facility are described in the Financial Review section of the Strategic Report and the facility, in further detail, in note 17 to the Group financial statements found on page 93 of this Annual Report.
The Committee is satisfied that this presentation is necessary to give a true and fair view of the Groups financial results and position for the reporting period and that it will assist shareholders with their understanding of the business and its financial affairs.
Fair value of investments: A full valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is prepared every six months, at 30 June and 31 December each year, with a review at 31 March and 30 September each year, principally using a discounted cash flow methodology.
The valuation assumes that the investments and their related cashflows are held until maturity.
Changes in the fair value of the investments are recognised in the Group Income Statement in net gains on investments at fair value through profit and loss.
In preparing the valuation, the key assumptions made by management include: i. the forecast cashflows accruing to each investment: ii.
the macro-economic factors affecting forecast cashflows, such as long term inflation, interest and foreign exchange rates: and iii.
the discount factors applied to each investment to reflect market and operational risks.
During 2015 the Committee reviewed and challenged the valuations prepared by management as well as the work performed on them by the external auditor and the Groups independent valuers, a professionally qualified third party.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 48 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 3.
Retirement benefit obligations: The combined deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical schemes is reflected on the Group Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 19.
It is sensitive to assumptions made for future price inflation, discount rates and life expectancy and can, therefore, be volatile, especially in the prevailing uncertain macro-economic environment.
A sensitivity table on the deficit has been included in note 19 to the Group financial statements.
The deficit calculation is prepared by the Company with the benefit of input from the Groups actuarial adviser and is subject to external audit.
Following detailed review, the Committee is satisfied that the deficit shown as at 31 December 2015 adequately reflects the Groups net retirement benefit obligations outstanding at that date under IAS 19.
Furthermore, the Committee is satisfied that, based on legal advice, there is no minimum funding requirement and consequently no additional pension liability arising under IFRIC 14.
INTERNAL AUDIT During the year the Committee reviewed and challenged the: 1.
Terms of reference of this function: 2.
Programme of work undertaken by it: and 3.
Reports issued by the Head of Internal Audit, including the adequacy of responses from management to the findings of such reports.
A new Head of Internal Audit recruited during the year has brought several improvements to the function, such as a more focused risk-based coverage plan and a new format for audit reports, some of which were in response to an external review of internal audit effectiveness conducted shortly before the Companys IPO.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Committee and has access at all times to the Group and Committee Chairmen.
EXTERNAL AUDIT Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since 2007 and this is its ninth consecutive annual audit.
Ross Howard has been the audit engagement partner since December 2008.
The maximum period the same engagement partner can serve on a UK listed company audit is five years.
However, under present regulation, Ross Howard can continue to serve one more year 2016 beyond the year of the Companys Admission 2015.
The Company is required to tender its audit every ten years, in accordance with the UK Competition and Market Authoritys Statutory Audit for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, effective from when the external auditor was first appointed.
As Deloitte LLP was first appointed in 2007, the Company needs to undertake an audit tender in or before 2017.
It is the Committees intention to initiate this tender in 2016.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of auditor.
During the year under review, the Committee considered: 1.
Deloittes planned approach to both the interim and annual accounts: 2.
Deloittes execution of the above approach, including its handling of key accounting and audit judgements, principally the fair value of the Groups investment portfolio and retirement benefit obligations: 3.
The content of Deloittes reporting on internal controls: 4.
Deloittes arrangements to identify, manage and report any of its own conflicts of interest: 5.
Deloittes safeguards over its audit independence and objectivity: 6.
The extent and quality of non-audit services provided by Deloitte: and 7.
The arrangements for day to day management of the audit relationship.
In addition the Committee reviewed and approved on behalf of the Board the external auditors remuneration and terms of engagement.
During the year Deloitte provided non-audit services as reporting accountant to the Companys IPO.
It was appointed after a competitive tender process.
Audit independence and objectivity were safeguarded by ensuring the IPO work was performed by partners and staff of Deloitte with no involvement in the audit of the Group and Companys financial statements.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the fees paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services were: Audit: 0.2 million: and Non-audit: 1.2 million which includes 1.1 million for reporting accountant and other services in relation to the IPO of the Company in February 2015.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 EXTERNAL AUDIT CONTINUED In summary, the Committee is satisfied with the quality of the external audit and has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP is reappointed for the year ending 31 December 2016.
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office: a resolution that Deloitte LLP be reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
OTHER MATTERS Other matters considered by the Committee during 2015 included, but were not limited to: 1.
The constitution and work of the Risk Committee and the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including updates to the Group risk register: 2.
The assumptions and analysis underlying i the viability statement required by recent changes to the Code: and ii adoption of the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements: 3.
The Groups taxation exposures and relationships with tax authorities: 4.
With the recent recruitment of a dedicated Compliance Officer, the Groups compliance with financial regulation, including anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and whistle-blowing arrangements: and 5.
The Groups policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud.
After careful observation and enquiry, including testing of evidence provided by management, each of these matters was deemed satisfactory by the Committee.
APPROVED On behalf of the Audit Committee Toby Hiscock CHAIRMAN 7 March 2016 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
