16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 16:57 Page 27 excluding Treasury shares as at the last practicable date be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per before the publication of this document.
This authority will share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2016 and when market conditions are appropriate.
unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
iii Increase of the maximum aggregate of Directors fees payable It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new from 175,000 per annum to 225,000 resolution 16 shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing To accommodate future increases in Directors fees and shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to periods during which there are more than five Directors on the other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the Board to assist with efficient succession planning, the Board is best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only seeking an increase in the maximum aggregate amount of fees made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, payable per annum.
There has been no change in the they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys maximum limit since 2007. administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a Recommendation greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for The Board considers that resolutions 13 to 16 are likely to investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
promote the success of the Company and are in the best The Company currently holds 3,915,149 shares in the capital of interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The full text of the resolutions is set The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 67. favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation 41,543 Ordinary shares representing approximately 0.03% resolution 15 of the voting rights of the Company.
The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital, granted by shareholders at the Corporate Governance 2014 AGM will expire on 18th May 2016, unless renewed prior to that time.
The Directors consider that the renewing of the Compliance authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of enhances the NAV of the remaining shares.
Directors Responsibilities on page 36, indicates how the Resolution 15 gives the Company authority to repurchase its Company has applied the principles of good governance of the own issued Ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the 2012 the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of: of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, which complements 19,254,411 Ordinary shares, representing approximately 14.99% the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of the Companys issued Ordinary shares as at 25th September of best practice for investment trusts.
2015 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of this document.
The authority also sets minimum and of corporate governance and considers that the Company has maximum prices.
complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate If resolution 15 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current Governance Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase under review.
pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a premium to NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
Role of the Board The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual A management agreement between the Company and the General Meeting on pages 67 and 68.
Repurchases of Ordinary Manager sets out the matters over which the Manager has shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 16:57 Page 28 Governance continued Directors Report continued authority.
This includes management of the Companys assets which may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is administrative and some marketing services.
All other matters available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
of matters reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Tenure Companys investment objectives and policy and its future Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of structure, appointment and removal of third party service Association, it is required that they be appointed by providers, review of key investment and financial data and the shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment is subject Companys corporate governance and risk control to the performance evaluation carried out each year and the arrangements.
approval of shareholders at each annual general meeting, in The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential accordance with corporate governance best practice.
conflicts of interest and, following the introduction of The The Board does not believe that length of service in itself Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures but, when making a recommendation, the Board takes into have operated effectively during the year under review.
account the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, including the need to refresh the Board and Anatole Kaletsky is a founding partner and chief economist of its Committees.
Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The Board does not believe this connection influences Mr The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set Kaletskys independence as a Director of the Company.
out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and office and at the Annual General Meeting.
additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function Induction and Training effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take briefings are provided on changes in law and regulatory independent professional advice if necessary and at the requirements that affect the Company and the Directors.
This is in addition to the access that every Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other Director has to the advice and services of the Company seminars covering issues and developments relevant to Secretary which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that investment trust companies.
Regular reviews of the Directors Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and training needs are carried out by the Chairman by means of the regulations are complied with.
Board Composition Meetings and Committees The Board, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of seven The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including with the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment Committee by invitation.
knowledge, business and financial skills and experience relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical The table below details the number of Board and Committee details of each Director are set out on pages 21 to 23. meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, a A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Management Engagement Committee meeting, a Nomination of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Committee meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
28 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
This takes into account the level of fees paid to the Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination directors of the Companys peers and within the investment Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings trust industry generally to ensure that high quality people are Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended attracted and retained.
Recommendations are made to the Board as and when appropriate.
Sarah Arkle 5 2 1 1 1 1 David Gamble 3 1 1 1 1 Audit Committee Anatole Kaletsky 5 1 1 1 The Audit Committee, chaired by Nigel Kenny and whose Nigel Kenny 5 2 1 1 1 membership is set out on pages 21 to 23, meets at least twice 2 Richard Laing 1 each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that Percy Mistry 5 2 1 1 1 they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the 2 Andrew Page 1 1 responsibilities of the Committee.
At least one member of the 3 Alan Saunders 5 2 1 1 1 Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the 2 Appointed 15th January 2015.
Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and 3 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 30th October 2009.
Mr Saunders the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance now attends by invitation.
It examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, receives information from the Managers Board Committees Compliance department and also reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the Nomination Committee independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The The Nomination Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, Audit Committee has reviewed the independence and consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to objectivity of the auditors and is satisfied that the auditors are ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and independent.
The Audit Committee also has the primary experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
the reappointment and the removal of external auditors.
The appointment process takes account of the benefits of diversity, including gender.
An independent third party, Trust During its review of the Companys financial statements for the Associates, were employed to conduct the search for a new year ended 30th June 2015, the Audit Committee considered Director, which resulted in the appointments of Richard Laing the following significant issues, including those communicated and Andrew Page.
Trust Associates have no connection with by the Auditors during their reporting: the Board or the Manager.
Significant issue How the issue was addressed The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure Going concern The Directors have considered the Companys that all Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed investment objective, risk management policies, capital management policies and procedures, the nature of the adequately to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The portfolio and expenditure and cash flow projections.
As evaluation of the Board considers the balance of experience, a result, they have determined that the Company has skills, independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure including gender, and how it works together.
The evaluation of and suitable management arrangements in place to individual Directors is led by the Chairman.
The Senior continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Independent Director leads the evaluation of the Chairmans future.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in Remuneration Committee and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, investments note 1 to the accounts on pages 46 to 48.
Controls are consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to review the in place to ensure that valuations are appropriate and levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the existence is verified through custodian reconciliations.
Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director and other JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29 16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 16:57 Page 30 Governance continued Directors Report continued Significant issue How the issue was addressed Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Alan Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken Saunders, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the review the performance of the Manager.
The Committee conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust on an annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of Sections 1158 and 1159 under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years the investment strategy and process of the Investment Corporation commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been Manager, noting consistent outperformance of the benchmark Tax Act 2010 obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility over the long term, and the quality of support that the Section 1158 and 1159 criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
Company receives from the Manager.
As a result of the The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial evaluation process, the Board confirms that it is satisfied that reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests preparation of the financial statements.
As a result of the work performed, the Committee has Terms of Reference concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended 30th June The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess which define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of the Companys performance, business model and strategy, and which are available on the Companys website and for has reported on these findings to the Board.
The Boards inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at conclusions in this respect are set out in the Statement of the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Relations with Shareholders Representatives of the Companys Auditors attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Accounts were considered and also engage with Directors as Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full and when required.
Having reviewed the performance of the understanding of the Companys activities and performance external Auditors, including assessing the quality of work, and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by timing of communications and work with the Manager, the way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual the net asset value of the Companys shares.
The Board reviews and approves any All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged non-audit services provided by the independent auditors and to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the assesses the impact of any non audit work on the ability of the Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in auditors to remain independent.
The only non-audit work person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
carried out by the auditors this year was in relation to their In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager member firms work on the Companys tax return in Pakistan.
who reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys The Board has resolved that such non-audit work does not brokers, the Investment Manager and the Manager hold impact the independence of the auditors.
Details of the regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are auditors fees paid for audit and non audit services are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors disclosed in note 5 on page 49.
 have make themselves available as and when required to address audited the Companys financial statements since its launch in shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through 1991 and were reappointed following an auditor review in the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 73.
The Companys year ended 30th June 2015 is the current Audit Partners first of a five year maximum term.
The The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in Company will need to appoint a different audit firm to succeed time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of  in 2020. the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise 30 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 16:57 Page 31 questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by questions via the Companys website or write to the Company the Board of key investment and financial data, including Secretary at the address shown on page 73. management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and performance comparisons.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and General Meeting.
custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written Risk Management and Internal Control agreement.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at Management Systems The Managers system of risk least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys management and internal control includes organisational system of risk management and internal control and to report agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These review of all controls, which the Board has identified as are monitored by the Managers Compliance department including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk which regularly monitors compliance with FCA rules.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the management and internal control which is designed to Board.
safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, records and ensure that financial information used within the keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can of risk management and internal control by monitoring the only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only associates as follows: provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or loss.
reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives regular reports from the Managers Compliance Since investment management, custody of assets and all department: administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMF and its associates, the Companys system of risk management reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations and internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself provided by the Manager and its associates, including the independently reviewed: and operating controls established by them, to ensure that they reviews every six months an independent report on the meet the Companys business objectives.
There is an ongoing risk management and internal controls and the operations process for identifying, evaluating and managing the of the Manager.
significant risks faced by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 19 and 20.
This process has been in place for the year By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the report and accounts, and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Companys system of risk management and internal control for The Company does not have an internal audit function of its the year ended 30th June 2015 and to the date of approval of own, but relies on the internal audit department of the this Annual Report and Accounts.
This arrangement is kept under review.
The Board confirms that any failings or weaknesses identified The key elements designed to provide effective risk during the course of its review of the system of risk management management and internal control are as follows: and internal control were not significant and did not affect the Company.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31 16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 16:57 Page 32 Governance continued Directors Report continued publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their Corporate Governance and Voting Policy stewardship responsibilities to their clients: The Company delegates responsibility for voting to the disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: Manager.
The following is a summary of the Managers policy monitor their investee companies: statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: by the Board.
be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: Corporate Governance have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment and process.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment report to clients.
performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These active owner on behalf of our clients.
analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company Proxy Voting Secretary or can be downloaded from the Managers JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would website: www.
co. uk institutional manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and  CorporateGovernance, which also diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are its detailed voting record.
Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a By order of the Board major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional JPMorgan Funds Limited, shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, Company Secretary managers should: 28th September 2015 32 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
