Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Audit and Risk Committee report Dear shareholder, Effectiveness reviews I am pleased to introduce the Audit and Risk Committees report We undertook two performance evaluations during the year, both for 2015.
I was delighted to be appointed as a non-executive supported by Thinking Board, the governance self-assessment Director of the Group and chairman of the Committee in March portal provided by Independent Audit Limited.
I have taken over a Committee which has a clear purpose and is in good form and I am grateful to Liz Airey for all her hard In October, we reviewed the internal audit function, which has work in this regard and for her continued support.
been provided by Ernst & Young LLP EY since 2008 and reports directly to the Committee's Chairman.
Internal Audits The Committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate performance was found to be effective, with positive responses corporate reporting, risk management and internal controls recorded in all key areas.
However, Internal Audit has been asked systems are in place and are applied throughout the Group.
It to ensure that business context is reflected in their audit reports also assists the Board in maintaining appropriate and robust and to demonstrate that their audit plans always reflect the internal control procedures and risk management processes in businesss strategic priorities.
addition to overseeing the Company's relationships with the External Auditor and the internal audit function.
The following The Committees own effectiveness was reviewed in November.
I report sets out the Committee's specific responsibilities and am pleased to say that this review was also positive and has explains how we carried them out in 2015 and how we satisfied helped us to identify our focus in 2016.
The Committee will be ourselves that we had done so effectively.
looking at ways in which it can further assist the Board to define the Group's risk strategy and appetite levels for all significant risks The context of the Committees work and major risk exposure limits.
We will also continue to review the In 2015, the Group continued to expand the distribution of its various risk management, control and assurance functions, to products into new markets, such as Spain and Italy, and continued ensure they are working efffectively and efficiently.
The Committee has a key role in ensuring that these strategic developments are managed sensibly, within an Further details of these reviews are set out later in this report.
The year also saw the creation of an internal management company for the Group's SICAVs and Terms of Reference Jupiter Asset Management Limited submitting an application to The Committee's terms of reference have been updated, reflecting relinquish its CASS approvals.
The Committee has overseen our increased emphasis on assurance and risk management and management's work to ensure this process was appropriately the change of name to the Audit and Risk Committee, which was controlled.
formally adopted by the Board in October.
The terms of reference are published on the Companys website at www.
com The Committee has also built on the work begun in 2014, reviewing the risk assurance framework.
This has included a complete I am looking forward to meeting our shareholders at our AGM on overhaul of the Groups ICAAP and Enterprise Risk Management 18 May 2016, to answer questions about the Committees work.
As shown on the diagram which follows, we estimate that 30 per cent.
of the Committees time is now spent on risk and internal control matters.
Polly Williams Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee We also examined the risks relating to the Groups key outsourced relationships and the management of the investment trusts.
A 26 February 2016 detailed review of the potential risks and impact of the move of the London office was also undertaken prior to the move.
A full review of the Committees work is set out later in this report and includes a table showing the regular agenda items.
The Committees members Jon Little served as a member of the Committee until October, when he stepped down whilst remaining on the Board.
I would like to thank him for his wisdom and support during his time on the Committee.
I am delighted that Lorraine Trainer and Jonathon Bond remained as members throughout the year and will continue to help the Group focus on its control framework.
45 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Role and responsibilities of the Committee The Committees roles and responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference.
In particular, the Committee encourages and safeguards the highest standards of integrity, financial reporting, risk management and internal control in the Company, with reference to the provisions of the Code, the Listing Rules and other applicable regulations.
The Committee is also responsible for: overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes, including reviewing statements, announcements and judgements concerning its financial performance: reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management systems on an ongoing basis, including the adequacy and effectiveness of the framework used to monitor the Group's internal controls and risk management systems, including arrangements for the prevention and detection of fraud: assessing the principal risks that could impact the Group's business model, future performance, liquidity and solvency: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness and adequacy of the process for identifying and assessing, mitigating and managing significant strategic, operational and liquidity risks, appetites and tolerances: reviewing and monioring the effectiveness of the internal audit function and considering its work plans and reports: overseeing the appointment, performance, remuneration and independence of the external auditors, including the provision of non-audit services to the Group: reviewing how the controls culture is set by management, understood by employees and implemented throughout the Group: and reporting to the Board on how the Committee discharges its responsibilities.
The experience of the Committee's members All of the Committees members during the year, including Polly Williams, are considered by the Board to be appropriately experienced and qualified to fulfil their duties.
The Board considers Polly Williams to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee members profiles are set out in full in the Board members biographies.
Committee membership and attendance Members Attendance by invitation Secretary Polly Williams 1 Liz Airey 3 Sally Hopwood Jonathon Bond PwC External Auditors Jon Little 2 EY Internal Auditors Lorraine Trainer Maarten Slendebroek CEO Philip Johnson CFO Robert Parker Director of Compliance Jon East Group Legal Director Rupert Corfield Head of Risk Adrian Creedy Chief Operating Officer 1 Chairman of the Committee 2 stepped down as a member in October 2015 3 stepped down as a member in March 2015 Committee meetings The Committee's terms of reference require it to meet at least three times a year.
Two meetings in January and April had short agendas, with the primary focus being the review of a proposed trading update and an interim Management Statement respectively.
The Board has agreed that going forward, it will appoint a Board sub-committee to undertake these reviews.
Only Committee members have the right to attend its meetings.
The table above shows the members of the senior management team and others who are invited to attend the Committees meetings when appropriate.
The Committee meets at least twice a year with the internal and external auditors, without management being present.
In preparation for the Committees meetings, the Committee Chairman has separate meetings with the internal and external auditors.
The Committee has a continuing training programme.
In addition to attending seminars on relevant topics during the year, the Committee members received updates from both the external auditors and the internal auditors.
46 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Overview of activities in 2015 During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee completed its full annual cycle of regular agenda items.
These are set in advance each year to ensure its work fulfils the requirements of the Code and other relevant regulations.
Financial Reporting Feb May July Nov Full-year results and announcements Half-year results and announcements Going concern Tax strategy and internal controls External Audit Management representation letter Evaluation of external audit Recommendation of re-appointment Non-audit fees External audit plan Internal Audit Summary of current work and audit reports Role and effectiveness of internal auditor Internal audit plan Risk Management and Internal Controls Risk management and compliance with risk appetite Other compliance with corporate governance requirements Assessment of reporting to be fair, balanced and understandable Assessment of true and fair accounts Reviewing Groups procedures on detecting fraud including whistleblowing procedure The Committee supplemented its regular annual work programme with deeper focus and discussion of: regulatory change and compliance: conduct risk: the risk management and control framework: and the key issues relevant to preparing the viability statement.
An illustration of how the Committee spent its time is shown below.
Governance Governance Non-risk related topics of focus Non-risk related topics of focus 17% 18% Internal audit Internal audit 13% Compliance Compliance Risk including relevant Risk and internal controls topics of focus Finance and external audit 8% 3% Finance and external audit 26% Allocation Allocation 13% of time 2014 of time 2015 10% 23% 17% 30% 22% 47 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Review of the Annual Report and Accounts deferred bonus plan are not granted until April, the Committee The Committee reviewed the half-year financial statements in July.
looked at both the expected level of share grants applicable to the The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 year and reviewed the quality of prior-year estimates.
The were reviewed in February 2016.
Committee ensured that the information used by the Remuneration Committee to recommend individual payments was considered In addition, the Board asked the Committee to review the Annual and consistent with the process for calculating the overall charge.
Report and Accounts prior to publication.
This was undertaken at its February 2016 meeting.
The Committee looked first at the In 2013, HMRC issued a revised assessment to the Group in Strategic report and considered that the information being relation to all input VAT recovered by Jupiter Asset Management communicated relating to the business model and strategy was Group Limited since September 2009.
Following recent relevant understandable and clear.
It then looked at the whole of the litigation, HMRC has advised that further consideration is being report, including the notes to the accounts, and advised the Board given to the matter.
In the meantime, the Groups current that in its view, the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole provisioning level is believed to remain appropriate.
was fair, balanced and understandable and provided shareholders with the necessary information to clearly assess the When considering proposed share-based payments, in the Companys business model, position and performance.
second half of 2015 the Committee noted recent evidence of exercise history and reviewed the relevant tax rules.
As a result, Financial reporting processes the independent experts model, which details the valuation The Committee considered that, in relation to the Groups financial process including the underlying judgements and assumptions statements and disclosures, the significant issues which arose and and the number of shares and options expected to vest as a the main areas of judgement were: result, was amended for share options and awards beginning in September 2015 and later.
Subject to this change, the Committee 1. impairment of goodwill: was satisfied that at the 2015 year end, this process was being 2. accrued income and expenses: consistently used and the underlying basis was still appropriate.
3. share-based payments: and At the start of the move to The Zig Zag Building in December, the 4. office closure costs.
Committee considered the obligations outstanding under the lease of 1 Grosvenor Place.
Provisioning was put in place in the Each of these items required management to make judgements as event the move was delayed and related to possible rental, rates to their treatment, which were scrutinised closely by the and clean-up costs.
In the event, the move was completed on Committee.
To enable the Committee to do this, management time and notice was given in December 2015 on the Grosvenor prepared a briefing paper detailing the nature of each item and Place lease, leading to the provision being removed.
An accrual why it was considered to be a key judgement in preparing the for known office closure costs is included in the Accounts.
The Committee considered the judgements at its meeting in November and reviewed the Internal controls and risk management systems appropriateness of any resulting disclosures in the financial As part of its ongoing monitoring, the Committee received written statements in February.
It requested follow-up analysis, which was reports at each of its regular meetings in February, May, July and circulated to Committee members.
As a matter of good practice, November.
These reports were from: the external auditors were asked for their view of the judgements the Compliance Director, who reported on regulatory made by management.
compliance across the Group and the status of any other compliance matters: As a result of the Group structure adopted at the time of the acquisition of Knightsbridge Asset Management Limited in the the Head of Risk, who reported on the work of the executive Risk 2007 MBO, the Group continues to have goodwill of 341.2m on Committee and operational risk performance: and its balance sheet.
In accordance with IAS 36, an annual test of the Head of Internal Audit, whose reports showed the status of impairment of goodwill is undertaken.
The Committee was the internal audit programme and any recommendations for presented with the results of the 2015 year-end impairment review, changes to it.
which demonstrated very substantial headroom.
The Committee was satisfied that no impairment was required.
The Group Legal Director also regularly attended the Committee's meetings to advise on current legal matters including litigation With respect to accrued income and expenses, the Committee affecting any Group company.
reviewed the key assumptions behind the amounts included in the financial statements, for areas where judgement had been In addition to its regular meetings, the Committee maintains a applied.
As in previous years, the most significant item in accrued close and open dialogue with executive management and the expenses at the year end was the annual bonus accrual.
This Groups assurance functions throughout the year.
Reports from the year, the Committee also reviewed ongoing considerations of the executive Risk Committee highlight issues across the Groups VAT case relating to Jupiter Asset Management Group Limited.
potential risk areas, including operational, investment, market, further details of which are provided below.
credit, liquidity and counterparty risk, as well as risks inherent in the Groups broader business environment.
Bonuses are not paid until after the date of signing the financial statements, so an accrual for the charge is made, based on the The Group's 2014 ICAAP document was updated to enhance its calculated bonus pool and the amounts approved by the structure, approach to the Groups risk appetite and the Remuneration Committee which looks at bonuses in total, as well management of risk issues, these changes being timed to support as individually for certain employees.
The Committee reviewed the a review of capital adequacy undertaken by the FCA.
The amount of the bonus pool and the estimated levels of deferral into 48 document was considered in detail at the Committee meeting in both options over the Companys shares or a cash equivalent July and the capital calculations underlying the ICAAP were value of units in the Groups funds.
Since options under the Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information approved by the Board in the same month.
The ICAAP will be issues could be more clearly identified and greater focus given to updated following the release of the 2015 results.
the Group's strategies and priorities, in preparing audit plans.
The Committee also looked at the Groups Audit & Assurance The Committee remains of the view that outsourcing the function Facility AAF 01 06 ISAE 3402 report, to ensure the Groups to a specialist independent provider is appropriate and helps to control structure was clearly communicated throughout the report, ensure that it is adequately resourced.
The current internal audit prior to despatch to institutional and investment trust clients.
plan runs until December 2016, in advance of which the Committee will consider EYs continued appointment as internal The Committees review of risk management includes examining auditors.
David Parkinson is the current internal audit lead partner.
and monitoring the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
The procedure at Jupiter is communicated to staff annually and is External auditors easily accessed by all employees via the Companys intranet, as PwC are the Groups external auditors, having been reappointed well as being made accessible to the employees of certain following a formal tender in 2014.
Jeremy Jensen is the lead audit outsouced providers.
lt includes a confidential helpline, a website partner.
and an internet address provided by an independent third party, which can be used to report actual or perceived wrongdoing The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market within or relating to the Company.
The procedure provides Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender executives with a valued opportunity to listen to colleagues Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order concerns.
Where whistleblowiers are identified, the procedure 2014 statement of compliance requires they are fairly treated.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the CMA Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
Internal audit function EY were appointed to provide the Groups internal audit function in The Company intends to retender the external audit contract no 2008.
The internal auditors report directly to the Chairman of the later than 2024.
Audit and Risk Committee and, in addition to submitting status reports for each Committee meeting, provide Committee members Each year the external auditors present to the Committee the with copies of any internal audit reports completed between proposed scope of their full-year audit plan, together with a meetings.
The status reports tabled at meetings include findings and review plan for the half-year.
This includes their assessment of the recommendations, as well as the Groups progress with material risks to the Groups audit and their proposed materiality implementing previous recommendations.
These help inform the levels, for the Committees discussion and agreement.
In 2015, Committees discussion of any required follow-up.
The Committee PwC attended all of the Committees regular meetings and also works with the internal auditors to ensure that their work is provided reports on specific topics requested by the Committee, embedded in the business and is co-ordinated with that of the which included focus on the move to new offices, the project external auditors.
appointing Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited as the management company of the Jupiter Global Funds and the Jupiter During 2015, 11 internal audits were completed, covering a variety Merlin Fund SICAVs and the transfer of Jupiter Asset Managers of business activities.
These included: Limited out of scope of CASS and CRD IV regulation.
a review of the Group's conduct risk framework: The Audit and Risk Committee has primary responsibility for the a review of the design of the Group's Enterprise Risk Groups relationship with the external auditors.
During the year it Management framework: and reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors following the 2014 audit by means of a questionnaire which was completed by a review of the management of the Group's key outsourced members of the Committee, the Board, and the Finance and providers.
PwC was found to have performed effectively during the audit and was responding constructively to new These reviews have helped the Group to implement more robust challenges.
A summary of the questionnaire's findings was controls procedures, particularly within the Sales Team.
discussed at the following Committee meeting and the Chairman then discussed the action points with Jeremy Jensen.
The Committee has agreed seven audits will follow in 2016, with particular emphasis on the strategic risks faced by the Group The Committee reviewed and approved PwCs terms of relevant to its scalability, as well as an assessment of the engagement and the proposed fee for the 2015 audit.
The enterprise risk management monitoring plans.
Committee has reviewed and satisfied itself with respect to the external auditors qualifications, expertise, resources and In last years Committee report, we said that during 2015 we would independence.
It continues to believe that PwC conducts its audit review the internal audit function and the internal auditors work with objectivity and to a high standard.
On this basis, it performance and effectiveness.
This was completed using the believes the external audit process to be effective, although it will 'Thinking Board' analytical tool provided by Independent Audit only carry out its detailed review of the 2015 audit in the months Limited.
In addition, the Committee received a quality assurance ahead.
There are no contractual obligations restricting Jupiters report from an independent partner of EY.
choice of external auditors, other than in respect of EYs appointment as internal auditors.
Our review considered the effectiveness of internal audit's planning, performance, and reporting processes and looked also at internal audit's positioning in Jupiter.
The responses to the questions raised were positive in all areas.
They indicated areas of possible improvement in reporting, where root causes behind 49 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit and Risk Committee report continued The Committee has a primary responsibility to safeguard the external senior stakeholders in the relevant business areas, related to auditors objectivity and independence.
To achieve this, it has regulatory change and compliance, viability, risk and governance.
developed and implemented a policy, which the Board has approved.
The policy provides that certain types of non-audit The combination of routine annual activities and the topics of focus services are pre-approved, whilst others are not permitted under any means that the Committee has been able to carry out a robust circumstances.
Prohibited services are those where the Committee assessment of the Groups principal risks and its ability to deliver its considers that the associated threats to auditor independence are strategy.
This included assessing the risks that might threaten its unacceptable.
Pre-approved services are those considered to have business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
a low threat to auditor independence.
Nonetheless, pre-approved services still need the Committees approval if the expected fee Regulatory change and compliance exceeds 50,000.
The policy also sets out certain disclosures the During the year, the Committee reviewed the conduct risk and external auditors must make to the Committee, restrictions on control framework, including: employing the external auditors former employees, partner the Client Assets Sourcebook Regulatory Report undertaken by rotation and the procedures for approving non-audit services the external auditors, prior to submission to the FCA: and provided by the auditors.
the role and effectiveness of the internal auditor.
The policy is regularly reviewed and was not changed during the year.
It will be reviewed on the implementation of the EU Audit The Committee also reviewed a number of factors such as Regulation, which will cap the non-audit services that can be liquidity management and cash generation from operations, provided and prescribe the activities for which PwC may be retained contingent liabilities, unfavourable market scenarios versus the to assist us outside of the audit.
Groups core forecasts and other risks to the Groups operations or balance sheet position.
After reviewing these factors, the The Group uses PwC as its statutory auditor in two main areas Committee considered that none cast significant doubt on the outside the statutory audit of the Group.
The first relates to those Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Committee areas of assurance where the work being done is, in the view of therefore considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern the Group, similar in type and scope to the work performed in the basis of accounting in preparing the half-year and annual audit and as such, can be provided more efficiently and cost financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, and effectively by the auditor.
This area is mainly the review of the did not identify any material uncertainties or notify the Board of interim accounts and other assurance work on the controls report any qualifications or assumptions as to the Companys ability to for clients and CASS client money audits.
The second relates continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the mainly to advice on taxation, remuneration and regulation, both in date of approving such financial statements.
respect of the Group entering new geographies and products through its continuing diversification strategy and in respect of During the year, the Committee also undertook reviews for the new regulations being issued in the year.
PwC was used in these Board of certain Interim Management Statements and trading cases due to the existing relationship which aids the understanding updates, prior to their release.
of the Group's business and structure and thus the ability to provide effective advice.
We continue to look at these items on a Viability case by case basis as to whether PwC are the appropriate The Committee considered the Groups viability over the period of supplier and look to migrate to a different supplier where it would three years and its position as a going concern at the half-year not be detrimental to the Group.
These assessments were informed by the Groups business and cash flow projections and the current net cash A quarterly report is circulated to the Committee setting out the balance and loan facilities available to the Group.
The Committee non-audit services which were provided by the external auditors considered that the Groups current surplus capital and cash during the year and the fees charged.
The value of PwCs liquidity were both well above the levels which might bring the non-audit services in 2015 was 300,000, which was 33 per cent.
going concern basis into question.
The Committee also received of the value of total auditors' remuneration in the year.
These advice on current best practice from external advisers.
services mainly related to taxation and remuneration advice.
The remuneration advice included the impact of remuneration Risk and governance regulations, AIFMD and CRD IV compliance requirements and During the year, the Committee looked at: assistance with queries relevant to establishing an office in implementation of the Groups corporate values: Sweden.
The tax work included compliance issues that arose in various territories, including Sweden and Austria, and VAT advice how management sets and monitors the Groups culture: and relevant to the office move.
An analysis of fees paid in respect of the Groups tax framework and associated internal processes PwCs audit and non-audit services is included within Note 1.3 of and controls.
the financial statements, which covers administrative expenses.
These reviews had a particular emphasis on risk and highlighted The Board has recommended the re-appointment of PwC as to the Committee any potential risk areas or areas where controls external auditor, which will be put to shareholders at the AGM on may need enhancing.
For instance, the Committees review of 18 May 2016. cyber-crime risks included consideration of the relevant risks and a review of appropriate insurance.
The risks of network business Matters of deeper focus and discussion interruption were also examined and improved insurance cover In addition to its routine activities during the year, the Committee obtained.
also identified topics of focus for review.
This was primarily based on their importance to the Groups strategy or current or anticipated regulatory focus.
The main topics covered during 2015 50 and to date in 2016, which were presented to the Committee by Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
