The Governance Framework Leadership The Board is responsible for the leadership and management of the Group, within an effective risk and control framework, and for setting the Companys strategic aims.
Liz Airey has chaired the Board since September 2014.
The Board comprises four executive, five non-executive Directors and the Chairman, with an effective balance of skills, knowledge and experience for running the Groups business.
It has established three Board Committees and the Executive Committee.
In addition during 2015 there were five committees reporting to the Executive Committee, together with the Management Committee which was formed in 2015.
These committees complete the Boards framework of control.
The Board Committees are the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Liz Airey chairs the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board considered her to be independent, within the terms of the Code, at the time of her appointment as Chairman of the Board.
All other members of the Board Committees are independent non-executive Directors.
The Board Committees operate within defined terms of reference, which are published on the Companys website: www.
com The Chief Executive Officer, executive Directors and Executive Committee The Chief Executive Officer, the executive Directors and the Executive Committee are responsible for managing the Groups day to day business and for implementing the Boards strategy.
Edward Bonham Carter was appointed Vice Chairman in March 2014.
His role focuses on engaging with the Groups key stakeholders including clients, prospective clients and industry bodies.
Edward also has Board responsibility for environmental, social, and governance matters.
Management and reporting committees The Executive Committee has established the reporting committees shown in the diagram overleaf, which assist the Executive Committee with managing the Groups business.
Each of these committees operates under defined terms of reference.
The diagram also sets out the main activities of these management committees.
In December, Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited JUTM received regulatory approval to be appointed as the management company of The Jupiter Global Funds and Jupiter Merlin Fund SICAVs, which are domiciled in Luxembourg.
As part of the project to establish JUTM in this role, it was decided that the JUTM board would take responsibility for certain work previously undertaken by the Operations Committee.
In October it was decided to transfer the Operations Committees remaining work to the Management Committee and the Operations Committee ceased to meet.
34 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Board Board Role Determine strategy Setting controls Reviewing values and how culture develops Members Chairman Five non-executive Directors Four executive Directors Chief Executive Ocer Committees Role Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Responsible for running the Groups business within authority Role Role Role limits delegated to him by the Board focusing on: Financial reporting Composition Implementation i Business strategy and management of the Board of Remuneration Audit management ii Investment and nancing Policy and compliance Succession issues iii Risk management and controls Management and Risk management Reviewing policies review of benets iv Communication within the business and to shareholders and and internal controls and practice for and rewards other stakeholders talent management and diversity v Chairing the Executive Committee, communicating its decisions and recommending actions to the Board Members Members Members vi Developing senior teams within the Group and ensuring succession planning Chairman Chairman Chairman Polly Williams Liz Airey Lorraine Trainer vii Developing policies and procedures for Board approval and implementation including the Investor Policy & the Share Dealing Code Two non-executive Two non-executive Three non-executive Directors Directors Directors Executive Committee Role Implementing strategy and objectives set by the Board and communicated by CEO Managing performance Reviewing matters arising from the Reporting Committees Receiving proposals from the Management Committee for improvements in business efficiency and eectiveness and communicating through the CEO to the Board and its Committees Reporting Committees Risk ManagementProduct Development Role Role Role Management of risk within tolerances set Running the business and budget in Examining new product proposals by the Board accordance with Group strategy Managing and supporting compliance Reviewing eectiveness of the risk Allocating resources and prioritising projects requirements of new products management process Developing the Groups corporate values Reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee in all its operations on the status of key risks Developing communications and cross-functional engagement Balance Sheet Management Treating Customers Fairly Operations Role Role Role Establishes and maintains balance Ensures funds are managed and operated Supporting the review of operational issues sheet policies within agreed guidelines, to ensure fair Review of health and safety risks and practices.
treatment of customers Reviews Group procedures from balance Supporting the Executive Committee to sheet perspective Works with Sub-committees to ensure this implement agreed changes eectively.
approach is operated throughout the Group 35 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
