Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder, Role of the Committee Welcome to the report of the Nomination Committee.
The Committees role and responsibilities include: The Nomination Committee has an important role in ensuring the reviewing and nominating candidates to fill both executive and Board has an optimal composition, a good balance of the non-executive Board vacancies: experience and skills required to perform its duties and considering succession planning for Directors and senior appropriate diversity of thought and perspective.
executives: The Committee undertakes succession planning for both executive reviewing the Companys policy and practices for executive and non-executive Directors and makes recommendations to the talent management, development and diversity: Board when changes may be appropriate.
It determines the best evaluating the Boards structure, balance of skills, knowledge selection process, including choosing the right recruitment firm to and experience required to underpin its continued help identify external candidates, as well as itself identifying effectiveness: and internal candidates for appointment to the Board if appropriate.
Selected candidates are interviewed by the Committee and meet considering the ongoing contribution of Directors, having other Directors and senior managers as appropriate, before regard to their performance and continuing contribution to the being recommended to the Board, which makes the final decision Board and its Committees and, when appropriate, to on Board appointments.
recommend to shareholders their re-election at the AGM.
In the first half of the year, the Boards composition and The Committees terms of reference are available for inspection succession planning remained a major focus, with a number of on the Company`s website www.
In March, Polly Williams was appointed as a non-executive Director and chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee membership and attendees Committee, Matteo Perruccio retired from the Board at the 2015 Members Attendance by invitation Secretary AGM and Bridget Macaskill was appointed as a non-executive Director in May.
Liz Airey Maarten Slendebroek CEO Adrian Creedy Jonathon Bond Gillian van Maaren As a people business, one of Jupiters key risks relates to attracting HR Director and retaining talented people and ensuring appropriate Lorraine Trainer succession arrangements are in place.
The Committee has continued its work on succession planning for executive directors and senior executives.
It has also overseen the executive teams Details of attendance by members of Board committees are work to establish a broader leadership group and initiatives for set out in the Governance report.
While only members of the improved talent and career development for all staff.
This included Committee have the right to attend its meetings, from time to considering and approving the expansion of the Executive time others are invited to attend the discussion of particular Committee.
agenda items, including other non-executive Directors and representatives of the appointed external recruitment consultants.
The Committee has continued to focus on diversity and has reviewed the progress made in implementing the Companys new diversity and inclusion policy, which was launched in March 2015.
In line with best practice, towards the end of the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference to ensure they still met the Companys needs and that it was fulfilling its role effectively.
Liz Airey Chairman 26 February 2016 43 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination Committee report continued consultancy.
The Committee recommended an action plan to the The Nomination Committees work in 2015 Board, based on the findings of the evaluation, and all actions were The Committee is required to meet at least twice each year, with completed in 2015.
These included: further meetings taking place as required, for example to consider reviewing the split of responsibilities between the Chairman and non-executive or senior executive recruitment as it arises.
Three the Chief Executive Officer: meetings were scheduled in 2015.
The Committee reports formally continuing to develop the induction training offered to nonto the Board on its proceedings.
executive Directors, by increasing the time they spend in the business: and The Nomination Committee evaluated the balance of skiills, enhancing the amount of Board contact outside Board meetings.
experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and from this information, prepares a description of the role and An internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees was responsibilities required for each new Board appointment.
conducted in 2015, using Independent Audit Limiteds Thinking Board analytical tool.
The actions resulting from this include: Nonexecutive Director appointments During the year two independent consultants, the Zygos continued improvement to Board and Committee papers and Partnership and Korn Ferry, were used for recruiting non-executive meeting scheduling: and Directors.
Neither of these organisations have any other pairing each non-executive Director with two members of the connection to the Company, although Zygos has been used for senior management team, to create a better understanding of several previous non-executive recruitments.
the Boards work and support the non-executive Directors in-depth understanding of Jupiters business and senior talent.
The search for an additional non-executive Director to become the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee began immediately With the exception of Philip Johnson, all serving Directors will be after Liz Aireys appointment as Chairman of the Board on seeking re-election or in the case of Bridget Macaskill election at 1 September 2014.
Korn Ferry was appointed to undertake this the AGM on 18 May 2016.
The Committee has reviewed the assignment.
The Committee identified the skills, knowledge and Directors standing for election or re-election with Committee experience required and Polly Williams was selected and joined members recusing themselves in respect of their own review, the Board in March 2015.
Polly is a chartered accountant and was taking into account their effectiveness and commitment.
It has also a partner in KPMGs financial services practice for a number of considered the independence of the non-executive Directors and years.
She is an experienced Audit Committee Chairman and is satisfied that they are independent in both character and is bringing new insights to the role.
judgement, in accordance with the Code.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board all the Directors standing Matteo Perruccio retired from the Board at the 2015 AGM, having for election or re-election at the AGM.
served as a non-executive Director since 2008.
The Zygos Partnership undertook a search for an additional non-executive By the time of the AGM, Lorraine Trainer will have completed a Director and Bridget Macaskill was selected and joined the Board six-year term at Jupiter.
Accordingly, the Committee undertook a in May.
Her background in asset management, with its focus on robust and rigorous review of Lorraines suitability to begin a strategy and business planning, together with her business further three-year term, prior to deciding to recommend Lorraine experience in the United States, has added to the Board`s to the Board for a third three-year term.
Lorraine is currently the strengths.
On joining the Board, Bridget was appointed to the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee.
Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees.
Her experience of reward, culture and succession Details of other commitments held by the Chairman and nonplanning is particularly valuable to the Company as it grows.
executive Directors are set out in their respective biographies.
Diversity and inclusion Executive appointments and development The Committee believes that diversity amongst its members, In November, we announced that Philip Johnson will be leaving including gender diversity, is of great value and its policy is to Jupiter in May 2016.
The Committee has therefore instructed Russell carefully consider overall Board balance and diversity in making Reynolds Associates to undertake an executive search for new Board or senior executive appointments.
Female Directors appropriate candidates for the role of Chief Financial Officer.
The Companys statement on Board diversity is available at: The Committee has continued to oversee the talent management www.
com and development of senior executives.
This has included: The Company has adopted a new policy of diversity and the development of a broader leadership team, by establishing inclusion, to give greater emphasis to supporting diversity a Management Committee supporting the Executive Committee: throughout Jupiter.
Details can be found in the Corporate the development of the Executive Committee with two new Responsibility report.
Following the recent appointment of three members joining in September and three further members with new members, female executives constitute 25 per cent.
of the effect from 1 January 2016: Executive Committee.
The Nomination Committee continues to consideration of talent acquisition and succession planning: monitor diversity within the business, as well as the goals set the progress of Jupiters learning and development curriculum: under the new policy.
and the consideration of results and proposed actions arising from Conflicts of Interest the 2015 Employee Opinion Survey.
During the year, the Committee continued its review of the Boards operation of the Conflict of Interest policy, to identify and, where Board effectiveness appropriate, manage conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
44 As reported in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, an externally Further details of the operation of this policy can be found in the facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Committees was Governance section.
conducted by Independent Audit Limited, a specialist independent Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
