Governance 56 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance report 2015 Chairmans introduction The Group Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance in Just Retirement and demonstrates this commitment by the way in which it conducts business and carries out its responsibilities in response to the challenges and opportunities of a changing market.
Board decisions aim to link the Groups strategy, its governance and risk appetite to the pursuit of sustainable successful growth over the longer term for the benefit of all stakeholders.
We will continue to lead the development of a governance framework that promotes transparency, accountability and challenge as the fundamental underlying principles for the Boards entrepreneurial and prudent approach to developing Just Retirements business.
The Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code except with respect to the composition of the Board following the retirement of Les Owen at the conclusion of the AGM on 25 November 2014.
On 15 May 2015 the Board appointed Steve Melcher as the fourth Independent Non-Executive Director and so complied with the Code provision for a balanced Board.
Our approach to applying the principles of the Code and how we comply with its provisions are described in the Governance Report that follows.
Tom Cross Brown Chairman 16 September 2015 Tom Cross Brown | Chairman Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 57 Group governance framework The following chart illustrates the governance structure established by the Group Board: Just Retirement Group plc Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk and Committee Committee Committee Compliance Committee Just Retirement Group Other Limited Board Executive Committee subsidiary Boards Investment Management Committee Committees The Group Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the In addition to its principal operating committees, the Board has Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Risk and Compliance established a Market Disclosure Committee and an Allotment Committees to assist it with the direction and control of the Committee, which meet whenever necessary.
These Committees, together with the Investment Committee of the Just Retirement Limited Board and the Group The Market Disclosure Committee oversees the disclosure of Executive Committee, are the principal operating committees of information by the Company to meet its obligations under the UK the Group.
Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR, and to ensure that decisions in relation to those obligations can be The Chief Executive Officer CEO operates a Group Executive made quickly.
The Committees role is to determine whether Committee to support him in the performance of his duties, information is inside information, when such information needs to including the development and implementation of strategy, the be disclosed and whether any announcements are required.
Other monitoring of operating and financial performance, the assessment responsibilities include reviewing and approving announcements of control and risk, the supervision and prioritisation of resources, concerning developments in Just Retirements business and the monitoring of competitive forces and the day-to-day monitoring compliance with the Groups DTR disclosure controls operational management of the Group.
Its members comprise Tom Cross Brown Chairman, Keith Nicholson, Rodney Cook and Simon Thomas.
The Group Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors Rodney Cook, Simon Thomas, Shayne Deighton and the following The Allotment Committee has responsibility for overseeing the from the Groups senior management: Hugh McKee Managing allotment and listing of new ordinary shares in the Company in Director of Just Retirements UK Life business : Chris Berryman accordance with the Companys executive incentive plans and Group Chief Operating Officer : David Cooper Group Distribution employee share plans.
Its members comprise any two Directors, & Marketing Director : Paul Turner Group Director of Business one of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Development : Anne Ridge Group Human Resources Director : and Alex Duncan Chief Risk Officer.
Steve Kyle Group Regulatory & Every Board Committee has written terms of reference setting out Audit Director provides independent input.
The Group Executive its duties, reporting responsibilities and authorities which are Committee meets weekly to discuss and approve operational reviewed annually.
Committee terms of reference are subject to matters and is supported by management sub-committees periodic updating to reflect any changes in legislation, regulation focusing on the following areas: operational risk, pricing, assets or best practice.
Further details on Committees are set out on and liabilities, insurance, products and propositions, change, and pages 62 to 66.
The terms of reference for the Audit, regulatory oversight.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available on the Groups website at www.
Governance 58 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance report 2015 continued Group governance framework continued The five main Board Committees are comprised of Non-Executive Directors of the Company who were appointed by the Board following review and recommendation by the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on the proceedings of the previous Committee meeting at the next scheduled Board meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is the Secretary of every Committee.
The following table shows the members and invited attendees of the Board Committees: Risk and Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance Investment Tom Cross Brown By invitation Member Chairman Member Member Rodney Cook By invitation By invitation By invitation By invitation By invitation Simon Thomas By invitation By invitation By invitation Shayne Deighton By invitation By invitation By invitation James Fraser By invitation By invitation By invitation Keith Nicholson Chairman Member Member Member Member Kate Avery Member Chairman Member By invitation Michael Deakin Member Member Member Chairman Steve Melcher Member Member Chairman Member Audit Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, internal and external audits, and controls, including reviewing the Groups annual financial statements, reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit and the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit activities, internal controls and risk management systems in place within the Group.
The Audit Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by Keith Nicholson.
Its other members are KateAvery, Michael Deakin and Steve Melcher.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee recommends what policy the Group should adopt on executive remuneration and, within the terms of the Directors remuneration policy approved by the shareholders at the AGM in November 2014, determines the levels of remuneration for each of the Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary and the Chairman, and recommends and monitors the remuneration of members of senior management.
The Remuneration Committee will also generate an annual remuneration report to be approved by the members of the Group at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee will normally meet not less than twice a year and is chaired by Kate Avery.
Its other members are Tom Cross Brown, Keith Nicholson and Michael Deakin.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee assists the Board in determining the composition and make-up of the Board.
It is also responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, as the need may arise.
TheCommittee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and the CEO.
It will normally meet not less than twice a year and is chaired by Tom Cross Brown.
Its other members are Keith Nicholson and Steve Melcher.
Risk and Compliance Committee The Risk and Compliance Committee is principally responsible for assisting the Board and other members of the Group in the discharge of their risk and regulatory oversight responsibilities.
The Committee reviews and challenges the overall effectiveness of the Groups regulatory systems and controls, risk management and future developments.
It also provides advice on regulatory and risk strategies including oversight of current risk exposures.
The Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by SteveMelcher.
Its other members are Tom Cross Brown, Keith Nicholson, Kate Avery and Michael Deakin.
Investment Committee The Investment Committee of the Board of Just Retirement Limited assists that Board in achieving its investment objectives.
The Investment Committee is responsible for reviewing and overseeing the implementation of Just Retirement Limiteds investment policy, including the performance of the investment portfolio, recommending the appointment and assessing the performance of the external investment managers, and the effectiveness of reporting procedures.
The Investment Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year and is chaired by Michael Deakin.
Its other members are Tom Cross Brown, Keith Nicholson and Steve Melcher.
The remaining Directors of the Just Retirement Group plc Board attend by invitation.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 59 Board responsibilities and operation The Group Board is responsible for the proper management of Providing recommendations to the Remuneration Committee Just Retirements Group strategy and direction, including its risk on remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other appetite.
It also oversees the activities and direction of Just senior management: and Retirement Limited and the Groups other operating subsidiaries.
Leading the communication programme with shareholders There are nine Board members: the Chairman independent on and ensuring the appropriate and timely disclosure of appointment, three Executive and five Non-Executive Directors information to the stock market.
four of whom are considered independent.
Keith Nicholson is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
In addition to their roles as Non-Executive Directors to constructively challenge and help develop the Groups strategy, The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors Keith Keith Nicholson, Kate Avery and Steve Melcher respectively Nicholson, Kate Avery, Michael Deakin and Steve Melcher are each chair the Boards Audit, Remuneration, and Risk and Compliance independent of management in character, judgement and opinion.
Committees, while Michael Deakin chairs the Investment The Board acknowledges that James Fraser, as the nominated Committee of Just Retirement Limited.
As the Senior Independent principal shareholder Director in the Companys relationship Director, Keith Nicholson provides a sounding board for the agreement with Avallux S.. r. l. the Companys principal Chairman, deputises for the Chairman in his absence and serves shareholder, must therefore be considered non-independent as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
within the meaning of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board benefits from the wide range of sector experience of its Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the Executive NonExecutive Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors are Directors under documented policies and procedures.
In advance given on pages 50 and 51. of scheduled Board meetings, each Director receives documentation providing updates on the Groups strategy, The Board believes that documented roles and responsibilities for finances, operations and development, and which have reference Directors, with a clear division of key responsibilities between the to a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval, Chairman and the CEO, are essential elements in the Groups which includes: governance framework and facilitate the effective operation of The Groups business strategy and risk appetite: the Board.
Business strategy plans and objectives, budgets and forecasts: Extension of the Groups activities into new business or The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership and geographic areas: governance of the Board but takes no part in the day-to-day Changes in capital structure and any form of fundraising: running of the business.
His key responsibilities include: Major changes to the Groups corporate structure, Leading the Board effectively to ensure it is primarily focused including reorganisations, acquisitions, disposals and major on strategy, performance, value creation and accountability: capital projects: Ensuring the Board determines the significant risks the Group The Groups systems of internal control and risk management: is willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy: Changes to the membership of the Board: Leading the succession planning process and chairing the Interim and annual financial statements: and Nominations Committee: Dividend policy.
Encouraging all Directors to contribute fully to Board discussions and ensuring that sufficient challenge applies The schedule of matters reserved for Board approval is to major proposals: reviewed annually.
Fostering relationships within the Board and providing a sounding board for the CEO on important business issues: Identifying development needs for the Board and Directors: Leading the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: and Ensuring effective communication with major shareholders.
The CEO is responsible for leadership of the Groups business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
His key responsibilities include: Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and significant commercial initiatives: Leading the executive team in the day-to-day running of the Group: Ensuring the Groups operations are in accordance with the business plan approved by the Board, the Boards overall risk appetite, the policies established by the Board, and applicable laws and regulations: Representation of the Groups interests in the UK and abroad: Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on important business and strategy issues: Recommending budgets and forecasts for Board approval: Governance 60 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance report 2015 continued Board responsibilities and operation continued The Board normally has 11 scheduled meetings a year and meetings are convened at other times as and when necessary.
The Board held 15 meetings during the year to 30 June 2015, three of which were additional meetings convened principally to progress the Groups regulatory submissions for Solvency II.
The following table shows Directors attendance at Board meetings and, where they are members, at Committee meetings.
Risk and Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance 1 Tom Cross Brown 15 15 7 9 5 5 10 10 1 Rodney Cook 13 15 Simon Thomas 15 15 1 Shayne Deighton 14 15 1 2 James Fraser 14 15 5 5 Keith Nicholson 15 15 7 7 9 9 5 5 10 10 1 Kate Avery 11 15 5 7 8 9 8 10 3 Michael Deakin 15 15 7 7 2 2 10 10 4 Steve Melcher 3 3 1 1 0 0 2 2 Notes: 1 The Director was unable to attend Board or Committee meeting s due to prior commitments or illness.
2 James Fraser retired from the Nominations Committee on 15 May 2015.
3 Michael Deakin was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 23 March 2015.
4 Steve Melcher was appointed to the Board and Committees except the Remuneration Committee on 15 May 2015 and has attended all Board and relevant Committee meetings since that date.
The Nominations Committee reviews the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company provided by the Directors, with the aim of ensuring the Board has the capabilities necessary to deliver its responsibilities for business strategy and governance.
The Board supports the principle of improving gender balance in the boardroom.
Further information about the Boards policy on diversity is given on page 17.
Non-Executive Directors appointments are subject to review every three years.
Their letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment, recognising the need for availability in exceptional circumstances, and the Board is informed of any subsequent changes in their other significant commitments.
None of the Executive Directors hold a Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
All Directors appointments are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
A Group policy and process is in place to address possible conflicts of interest of Directors.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts with the interests of the Company that arise must be disclosed at the next Board meeting for consideration and, if appropriate, authorisation by relevant Board members in accordance with the Companys Articles.
No conflicts were disclosed in the period.
The Board has established a broad risk governance and management framework, which is designed to provide control and oversight over the management of all financial and non-financial risks.
The Group operates a Three Lines of Defence model.
The first line of defence is line management who devise and operate the controls over the business.
The second line functions are Risk Management and Compliance, which oversees the first line, ensure that the system of controls are sufficient and are operated appropriately, and also measure and report on risk to the Group Risk and Compliance Committee.
The third line comprises Internal Audit and the external auditor who provide independent assurance to the Board and its Committees that the first and second lines are operating appropriately.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness and monitoring of the Groups systems of internal control, covering all material financial, operational and compliance controls, and for undertaking an annual review of the control systems in place, while the implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility of management.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement.
The Groups internal control systems comprise the following key features: Establishment of clear and detailed terms of reference for the Board and each of its Committees: A clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of authority from the Board to senior management: A Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and control standards for the Groups operations: and Defined procedures for the approval of major transactions and capital allocation.
It is the view of the Board that the Groups internal controls are appropriate to the Groups needs at this time.
Internal controls are kept under review by the Board and its Committees and the Board is committed to maintaining standards of internal controls that are in line with industry practice, the Groups needs and regulatory regimes, in particular the requirements of the PRA and FCA.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 61 For the second consecutive year, the annual performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and of individual Directors was conducted after the year end through the use of a questionnaire which was completed by all Directors and followed by meetings of individual Directors with the Chairman.
The questionnaire responses were collated and analysed by the Group Company Secretary.
The results were reviewed by the Chairman and communicated by him to the Board, which noted a high degree of consensus among the Directors that the Board had the right core skills and characteristics to accomplish its role.
Actions to help improve effectiveness were identified mainly in relation to the nature and timing of the comprehensive information flows to the Board.
In keeping with the Code, the annual evaluation of the Board in 2016 will be externally facilitated.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman met as a group to evaluate the performance of the Chairman taking into account the views of Executive Directors : the results of that process were communicated to the Board by the Senior Independent Director.
All new Directors receive formal induction on joining the Board and a tailored training plan.
Their induction includes discussions with the Chairman and Executive Directors as well as one-to-one briefings and presentations from senior management on matters relating to the Groups business, its procedures and regulatory developments.
As part of the annual Board effectiveness review, the Chairman discusses with each of the Directors their training and development needs.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they consider it appropriate in relation to their duties.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major institutional shareholders through a scheduled programme of meetings which are generally undertaken by the CEO and Group Finance Director.
An Investor Relations function provides the Board with regular analyses of investor activity and share price performance.
Analysts and brokers reports are made available to all Directors and they also receive feedback from investor meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation by shareholders if they have concerns which are inappropriate to raise with the Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors.
Further information for shareholders is included on page 149.
Governance 62 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance report 2015 continued Statement from the Chairman of the Nominations Committee Recommending to the Board the following changes in Role of the Committee Committee and Life Company appointments: The role of the Nominations Committee is to keep under review Keith Nicholson as Chairman of the Audit Committee the leadership needs of the Company, and regularly review the following the departure of Les Owen: size and composition of the Board, where appropriate making Michael Deakin as a member of the Remuneration recommendations for the orderly succession of Executive and Committee: Non-Executive Director appointments, and the progressive Steve Melcher as Chairman of the Risk and Compliance refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
In assisting and Committee in place of Keith Nicholson who remains a advising the Board, the Committee seeks to maintain an member and as a member of the Audit Committee: appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, independence, Steve Melcher as a member of the Nominations Committee, experience and diversity on the Board, taking into account the in place of James Fraser who retired: challenges and opportunities facing the Group.
Steve Melcher as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the life company, Just Retirement Limited, and as a member The Nominations Committee comprises three Non-Executive of its Investment Committee: and Directors, two of whom are deemed independent.
The Committee Herman Wessels as an Independent Non-Executive Director meets at least twice a year and the CEO and the Group Human of Just Retirements new life company in South Africa: Resources Director are normally invited to attend meetings.
Keeping under review the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, considering the judgement, thinking and constructive The Committees duties are explained in more detail in its terms challenge that they each demonstrate in Board and Committee of reference which is available on the Groups website at discussions.
In my absence, the Committee considered my www.
service with Just Retirement which pre-dates the Companys listing in 2013 and reaches nine years in October 2015 and Appointments policy and process concluded that, subject to annual review, I should continue as Appointments to the Board of the Company are made on merit, Chairman to provide consistency of Board leadership during a having regard to the requirements of the role that will best support time of significant change for the Group.
In referring to the the business and promote the success of the Company.
The specific factors identified in the UK Corporate Governance Committee begins the recruitment process by evaluating the Code as potentially relevant in determining independence, the balance of experience and abilities on the Board and then agreeing Committee also noted that James Fraser must be considered a specification for the role and a personal skills set which together non-independent because of his nominated Directorship by the form the basis for discussion with relevant search firms.
The Companys principal shareholder: and specification is then refined through discussion with the selected Recommending to the Board that each of the Directors be search firm, with due regard given for the benefits of diversity on proposed for election by shareholders at the AGM on the Board, so that a long list of potential interviewees includes 23November 2015.
The Committee made this recommendation female candidates.
A short list is then selected and considered.
having considered the balance of abilities and experience Short-listed candidates are interviewed by the Chairman, other required of both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Committee members and the CEO.
The Committee then decides Directors, and on the basis that all Non-Executive Directors, whether to recommend an appointment to the Board for approval.
whether independent or not, continue to demonstrate the personal qualities necessary to contribute to the leadership The Nominations Committee has met formally on five occasions of the Company.
during the year, supported by numerous discussions which took place as a working party of the Committee to progress recruitment processes aimed at identifying strong potential candidates for Non-Executive Directorships.
Committee activities have included: Considering the composition of the Board and its Committees following the retirement on 25 November 2014 of Les Owen as a Non-Executive Director, as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a member of the Risk and Compliance and the Remuneration Committees.
The recommended appointment Tom Cross Brown inMay 2015 of Steve Melcher as the fourth Independent Committee Chairman Non-Executive Director re-established a balanced Board.
CTPartners were engaged to assist with the search process forthe Board appointment and assisted with the search for aSenior Independent Director for the UK Life Company but provided no other services to the Company during the year: Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 63 Statement from the Audit Committee Chairman I took over the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee at a time of Audit Committee report significant change for Just Retirement both in terms of the market The Committee comprised four Non-Executive Committee for individual pensions and the prudential regulatory regime.
As a members throughout the year except for the period between consequence, the Audit Committees focus during the year was on 25November 2014 and 15 May 2015 when there were only the control over the launch of new products in response to the three members.
Les Owen retired from the Committee on 2014 budgetary changes and the preparations for the introduction 25 November 2014, on which date I became Chairman, of Solvency II on 1 January 2016. and Steve Melcher joined the Committee on 15 May 2015.
The Committee invited to its meetings members of the Executive The Audit Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee and other senior managers as appropriate to present their reports.
have cross-membership, in particular with their respective This enabled them to hear and respond to the constructive Chairmen being members of the other Committee.
This has challenges made by members of the Committee who draw on permitted both Committees to ensure that their terms of reference their own experience and wider industry knowledge.
This approach remain appropriate to deliver coverage of both the internal control allowed the Committee to reach the appropriate outcomes for the and risk management frameworks of the Group.
In addition, the Committee held a meeting with Internal Audit without any other executives present and I had one-on-one The Committee met on seven occasions during the year and meetings with the Group Finance Director and Group Chief covered matters relating to the Groups: Actuary.
There were no issues or concerns raised by them in regard Fair, balanced and understandable financial reporting: to discharging their responsibilities.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code: Control environment: and The Committee met with Ben Priestley, our KPMG Audit partner, Internal and external audit planning and reporting.
in private session at the beginning of the meeting to review the Annual Report and Accounts.
There were no matters arising The Chairman reported to the Board meeting that followed each that the Committee had to follow up with the Executive prior Committee meeting with the minutes of the meetings being to making recommendations to the Board on the Annual Report subsequently circulated to Board members.
The main areas of judgement considered by the Committee in The report that follows gives a high level overview of the matters respect of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were: covered during the year together with those issues we are required The valuation rate of interest used to calculate the Groups to report on under the Code.
This is derived from yields on supporting assets with an explicit deduction made from the yields on Les Owen retired from the Board on 25 November 2014 and corporate bonds based on prudent expectations of default stepped down on that date as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
experience for each asset class.
The Committee reviewed the Iwould like to record my thanks for his contribution to the Audit methodology of the data underlying the proposed deduction Committee over the four years he was Chairman.
which was set out in papers presented by the Group Finance Director and Group Chief Actuary: The length of time the Groups Retirement Income customers will live and therefore the projected cash flows for Retirement Income product liabilities.
Assumptions regarding the longevity of Retirement Income customers are reviewed by the Committee, which received regular reports on the actual Keith Nicholson against expected number of deaths from the Group Chief Committee Chairman Actuary.
The Committee assessed the components of the assumptions, which take into account the medical and lifestyle evidence collected during the underwriting process, and assessments of how this experience will develop in future.
The Committee took into consideration advice from the Actuarial Function Holder of Just Retirement Limited: Assumptions used to value the Groups LTM loans include projections of future cash flows expected to arise from each loan which allow for expected house price growth, house price volatility, mortality experience and early redemption.
The Committee reviewed managements recommendations which were set out in papers presented by the Group Chief Actuary and advice from the Actuarial Function Holder of Just Retirement Limited.
The papers include actual experience of the various components against that expected: and Assumptions used to value reinsurance assets include longevity and economic assumptions which are based on the reinsurance agreements and the credit quality of the reinsurers.
The Committee considered the recommendations from the Group Chief Actuary and advice from the Actuarial Function Holder of Just Retirement Limited.
Governance 64 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance report 2015 continued Statement from the Audit Committee Chairman continued The Committee also reviewed the methodology and assumptions Group Internal Audit submitted its work plan for the year to adopted for the supplementary financial statements prepared on the Committee for review and challenge prior to its approval.
These were set out in papers The focus of the plan was change control in light of the pension presented by the Group Chief Actuary which were based on the changes announced in the 2014 Budget and the preparation for data used for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Solvency II, as well as maintaining oversight on business as usual controls.
The Committee approved the use of external specialist The Committee drew on its own knowledge and experience and resources to assist Group Internal Audit to deliver its plan.
KPMGs comments on the reasonableness of the assumptions and how they compared to those used by peer group companies in Group Internal Audit provided the Audit Committee with a approving the judgements made by management.
In making this quarterly update of its progress against the annual plan, any decision the Committee took account of the proposed sensitivity changes to the plan in the light of developments and significant disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the findings, and recommendations arising from its work.
In assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in The Committee considered whether the Annual Report and relation to internal controls, the Audit Committee has reviewed the Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015, taken as a whole, is effectiveness of the Groups control systems based on reports from fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information the Group Regulatory and Audit Director and the Group Finance necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Director.
The Committee concluded that the Groups internal business model and strategy and how these judgements were controls are appropriate to the Groups needs at this time.
In arriving at this conclusion, the Committee reviewed Board, Audit Committee and Risk and Compliance Committee The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Board should papers and minutes to satisfy itself that the Annual Report and satisfy itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee has Accounts did meet these criteria and could be recommended to recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has agreed that the Board for approval.
Keith Nicholson should be regarded as the member having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee kept the relationship between the Group and itsexternal auditor, KPMG, under review and considered its The Code provides that no one other than the Committee independence, including the extent of its fees from non-audit Chairman and members should be entitled to be present at a services.
As part of their review the Committee obtained meeting of the Audit Committee, but others may attend at the confirmation that, in KPMGs professional judgement, its invitation of the Committee.
The Audit Committee has indicated independence has not been compromised and the objectivity of that any Director of the Company may attend its meetings if he the Audit Engagement Partner and audit staff is not impaired.
There is a Group policy governing the undertaking of non-audit services by external auditors.
Non-audit fees payable to KPMG, allof which were approved in accordance with this policy, totalled 0.2m for tax advisory and other assurance services during the year.
An analysis of its audit and non-audit fees for the year is given in note 4 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for recommending to the Board the appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors.
In considering this, the Committee takes into account the firms independence and whether it would be appropriate to invite tenders for the role of external auditor.
KPMG has acted as the Groups external auditor since 2006.
Inthelight of European regulations the Committee reviewed theappointment of the external auditor during the year.
The Committee concluded that, in view of KPMGs length of service with Just Retirement and to provide the Committee with the widest possible choice of firms, it would be appropriate to put the external audit out to tender in the first half of 2016 with the successful firm being appointed for the year ending 30 June 2017.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process utilising input from the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief Actuary, the Chairman of the Committee and a report from the FRC on the outcome of their review of the 2014 audit.
The Committee concluded that KPMGs performance had been effective.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended to the Board that shareholder approval be sought at the forthcoming AGM to authorise the reappointment of KPMG as auditor for the year ending 30 June 2016.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 65 Statement from the Risk and Compliance Committee Chairman My chairmanship of the Committee commenced with my Board Risk and Compliance Committee report appointment on 15 May 2015 and, on behalf of my fellow The Risk and Compliance Committee met on ten occasions Directors, I wish to express our sincere thanks to Keith Nicholson duringthe year, reflecting the complexity and substantial volume for his leadership of the Committee through a significant and of documentation requiring review in respect of the regulatory challenging period for Just Retirement following the listing of the submissions for Solvency II which the Group completed by the Group in November 2013 and in particular during the past year yearend.
when he also took on the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
The process of agenda setting for each Committee meeting is In pursuing Just Retirements strategic objectives, the Board is driven by an annual programme of business, based on the responsible for setting overall risk appetite and for overseeing the Committees terms of reference and regular individual discussions maintenance of sound risk management and internal control the Committee Chairman holds with the Chief Risk Officer and the systems.
The Risk and Compliance Committees key responsibilities Group Regulatory and Audit Director, to ensure that all significant are to assist and advise the Board in the discharge of its risk and areas of risk are reported on and considered.
regulatory oversight responsibilities by: Recommending to the Board the Groups overall risk appetite: The main activities undertaken by the Committee during the Assessing the management of risks so that Group risk exposures year were: and emerging risks remain within agreed risk tolerances and Reviewed the risk appetites used to guide management in limits: and pursuing the Groups business plan: Reviewing the effectiveness of the systems for monitoring Monitored the delivery of the Group business plan against compliance with applicable laws, regulations and the findings the agreed appetite for each key risk: of regulatory bodies.
Assessed individual risks against the Groups appetite through the use of scenario analyses: The activities of the Committee during the year are summarised in Reviewed the Groups ORSA which provides a broader and the report that follows.
For 2016, I anticipate the work of the more forward-looking assessment of Group risks and whether Committee will focus on two important issues: adequate capital and contingency plans are in place: Adapting the Groups risk operating model to align it with Monitored managements approach to the regulatory organisational change and managements implementation submissions for Solvency II and the Groups preparations for of its revised business strategy in response to the Groups the new regime which included extensive training of the Board: changing sales mix and the evolution of the retirement Reviewed regular reports on regulatory compliance and income market: and managements dialogues with the PRA and FCA aimed at Ensuring the Groups readiness for Solvency II implementation better understanding the areas of developing focus for the on 1 January 2016. regulators and how these might influence the oversight role of the Committee: Considered changes to risk management and compliance policies and, where appropriate, recommended their approval to the Board: Reviewed arrangements for employees to raise, in confidence, any concerns about financial improprieties in financial reporting Steve Melcher or other matters: Committee Chairman Reviewed managements approach to new emerging risks and cyber-crime risk: Maintained a close liaison with the Audit Committee through cross-membership, helping to inform the Committees oversight of the Groups risk management framework: and Reviewed the results of the annual evaluation of risk management effectiveness by the Group Risk function, concluding that the Groups risk management approach and application was suitable for the complexity and scale of the business, was operating effectively and further embedding as a core management responsibility.
