Strategic report 16 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Key resources and relationships Customers service awards demonstrates the strength Our efforts during the past year have been Just Retirement has always recognised and and quality of our relationships with to support ministers, their officials and responded to the needs of its customers financial intermediaries.
agencies introduce a range of interventions and we are committed to ensuring that to ensure those people accessing their our business remains customer-focused Our progressive retail distribution strategy pension savings are supported to make in the future.
Ongoing programmes of is underpinned by our strong brand and improved decisions.
We campaigned quantitative customer surveys, qualitative our relationships with a diverse range actively to secure the new Second Line of focus groups and the implementation of a of corporate partners and financial Defence regime introduced by the FCA to fully integrated complaints process, provide intermediaries.
In 2014 15 we developed protect people from making inadvertent the Group with vital insights into our new partnerships to diversify our retirement poor choices.
We are pleased that our performance and service proposition.
Our proposition and to support customers efforts were successful to ensure that the customers now have the opportunity to reaching retirement through our FPP and governments Guidance Guarantee service, provide feedback at the end of telephone our innovative, retirement-focused simplified Pension Wise, was designed to ensure it calls by way of an integrated voice advice service.
On page 82 of this report is was unequivocally independent of recognition survey, used in call coaching to acase study of our new partnership with commercial bias.
We have been a major reinforce the customer-centric culture and the Phoenix Group illustrating how our contributor to HM Treasurys consultation attitude we are fostering within our regulated advice service is providing help into the development of the secondary front-line employees.
This innovative annuity market and continue to support new service is targeted at middle Britain the development of this new opportunity Our latest industry market research from retirees and has been designed to help fill to extend freedom and choice to customers LAMRA showed that 95% of survey the advice gap for those people with who have historically purchased guaranteed respondents rated the service which they modest pension savings.
received from Just Retirement as Good or Very good.
This is a 3% increase Our investments to support policy makers Reinsurers compared to our results in 2014 and with original research in 2015 are focused Since our inception in 2004, Just around 6% above the industry average.
We on exploring the potential long-term Retirement has been working with continue to request feedback in order to implications of the pension reforms.
Hannover Re, widely regarded as one of structure a range of initiatives to maintain We have developed thought leadership to the leading global reinsurers in the GIfL this position, and also to improve the highlight the importance of implementing market, as its key reinsurance partner.
Our cultural an early warning system to track the philosophy is that customers should be at potential long-term outcomes of specific In addition to this long-standing relationship the heart of our business.
We also have a customer groups, to highlight those that with Hannover Re, we have developed very low risk appetite for breaches of our may be particularly vulnerable and to assess partnerships with other leading reinsurance Treating Customers Fairly TCF policy.
the potential implications on the State.
firms, including RGA International and Just Retirement provides market-leading RGA Global Reinsurance Company Ltd. services by understanding its customers, We will continue to support and challenge Achmea Re and SCOR Global Life SE keeping its promises and seeking to exceed the bodies accountable for ensuring UK Branch.
The diversification of our customer expectations.
competition is effective and consumer reinsurance relationships has supported protection is proportionately applied to competitive pricing.
make sure people approaching and Distribution partners in-retirement have access to a competitive Our DB sales are made via EBC who advise Government market and organisations that take the schemes trustees on the structuring of Just Retirement believes that an important advantage of customer inertia are defined benefit pension schemes, and we part of our role in the retirement income scrutinised.
have developed strong relationships in this market is to positively engage with area despite being relatively new to this government and regulators to encourage segment of the retirement income market.
effective competition and better customer We distribute our individual products outcomes.
Just Retirement engages through a number of channels, including with ministers, government officials, traditional channels such as financial regulators and other policy makers directly intermediaries, EBC, specialist and through trade bodies.
As a leader in intermediaries, banks and building the markets we serve, Just Retirement is societies and emerging channels such as well placed to share our customer and life insurance companies, digital and affinity market insights.
Our consistent record in achieving the highest accolades in industry Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 17 Suppliers Diversity Just Retirement generally manages our own Just Retirement is committed to valuing customer-facing systems, processes and diversity and promoting equality of organisation.
This continues to allow us to opportunity for employees.
We ensure that flex and adapt our services to meet employees are selected and promoted on evolving customer demands.
the basis of merit and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, sexual However, the Group outsources certain orientation or disability.
All Just Retirement operational and administration functions Group employees are required to where appropriate.
This includes the demonstrate annually that they understand administration of customers regular UK equality legislation and how it applies pension payments for our DB business.
Our senior management relationships with the suppliers of these team is comprised of 91% men and 9% services are managed through dedicated women, whilst the Board is comprised of teams.
Overall, the male: female ratio is 55:45.
Our people Benefits Development Just Retirement offers a competitive Developing our people is central to range of benefits to employees, including our overall business strategy and this life assurance and income protection, commitment to our employees is set out from their commencement with the in our learning and development policy.
Employees may also elect to Our development initiatives focus on the join the private medical insurance scheme organisational initiatives that have the and sign up to receive other benefits, biggest impact for customers, employees including dental and travel insurance, retail and the business.
We typically focus on vouchers, gym membership, holiday buy strengthening technical knowledge, sell and retirement planning.
Salary sacrifice role-specific skills and behaviour in line schemes providing National Insurance and with our competency framework.
income tax savings are available for In 2014 15 we have placed particular childcare vouchers and a cycle-to-work emphasis on our performance culture, scheme.
To support employees in planning coaching skills for managers, and a for their future, Just Retirement offers new leadership programme.
We have also a salary sacrifice Group Personal ensured that our people remain aware of Pension scheme.
recent changes in legislation and industry initiatives, with specific training programmes on Just Retirements own response to the recent pension reforms and our new and diversified products and services.
