Risk Committee Report Risk is the potential for events to occur that can create either threats to success or opportunities for benefit.
Threats to the success of the business could adversely impact The product of these two values represents the overall severity of the Groups business model, reputation or financial standing.
The following red-amber-green system is used to prioritise However, under a well-formed risk management framework, and focus JLIFs risk management policies and procedures: potential threats can be identied in advance and mitigated or s Red score 6 9 very likely to occur or has occurred in converted into opportunities.
the recent past: significant potential impact on the rms The purpose of JLIFs risk management policies and procedures stakeholders, reputation and or financial standing if the is not to completely eliminate risk, as this is not possible: rather, risk occurred.
it is to identify the likelihood of occurrence and to ensure that the s Amber score 3 5 likely to occur, with a medium impact if Company is adequately prepared to deal with risks so as to the risk did occur.
minimise their impact should they materialise.
s Green score 1 2 unlikely to occur and only minor impact JLIF has a dedicated Risk Committee to lead its risk management should the risk materialise.
activities, chaired by Helen Green.
While it is the Investment Adviser who manages the risks facing the Company on a day to Mitigation actions have been developed with respect to each risk day basis, it is the Board of the Company managed via the Risk identied to reduce the likelihood of such risk occurring and also Committee which retains ultimate responsibility.
The Risk to minimize the severity of its impact in the event that it does Committee, which reports to the Board, was formed to review occur.
In addition, the reputational impact of each risks is the effectiveness of the Companys and that of the Investment assessed and a red-amber-green rating is ascribed.
Adviser, Administrator and other third party service providers as The risk register is a live document that is reviewed and updated it deems t internal control policies and procedures for the regularly as new risks emerge and existing risks change.
The risk identication, assessment and reporting of risks.
register is formally reviewed by the Risk Committee, which meets four times a year, and is presented at each Board meeting for Risk identication and monitoring consideration and approval.
JLIF has a comprehensive risk management framework and risk register that assesses a the probability of each identied risk JLIFs risk register covers six main areas of risk: materialising: and b the impact e. g. strategic, financial, 1.
Economic: operational it may have on JLIF.
This is captured by a rating system 2.
Political: assigning a 1, 2 or 3 to the probability and a 1, 2 or 3 to the 3.
Operational: magnitude of the impact with 1 being the least probable smallest 4.
Financial: impact and 3 being the most probable greatest impact.
Each of these areas are summarised in the table below, followed by a detailed discussion of the risks.
Those risks in white are those not specically discussed in last years Annual Report.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational 10 Risk Risk Rating Risk Rating Risk Rating Economic Currency s ss Interest rates s ss Equity market sentiment s s s Future of UK capital spending s ss Political Pressures on contract terms and or early s s s termination Change in political environment s s s UK EU-membership s s s Operational Competition for assets s ss Project operations s ss Stability of the Investment Adviser and s s s its controls Cyber risk ss s Financial Portfolio valuation s ss Dividend payments s s s Leverage s s s Taxation Base Erosion profit Shifting BEPS s s s Compliance and Legal Regulatory s s s 10 Mitigating actions are described in further detail in the text that follows.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 11.
Economic To date, investors have been very supportive of JLIFs capital raising activities.
This, as well as more recent successful capital Currency Risk raises by other listed infrastructure funds, confirms the appetite At 31 December 2015 JLIFs portfolio comprised six assets that investors have for infrastructure as an asset class.
are located outside the UK and are therefore exposed to currency risk.
As at 31 December 2015 these assets represented 12.5% Political 2014: 14.0% of the Portfolio Value as follows: Future of UK Capital Spending 8.4% Canadian Dollar 2014: 9.6% Under its Investment Policy, JLIF is required to hold at least 4.1% Euro 2014: 4.4% 50% of its Portfolio by value in UK assets.
At 31 December 2015 JLIF had 87.5% of its Portfolio invested in the UK, a material While exposure to multiple currencies can provide some buffer above the required minimum.
While the prevalence of new diversication benets, the balance sheet valuation of these greeneld PPP deals in the UK has decreased over recent years, assets will vary in Sterling terms due to uctuations in spot there is cause for optimism with the introduction of PF2 and exchange rates used to convert future cash ows to Sterling at the establishment of the National Infrastructure Commission, the balance sheet date.
JLIF does not hedge this balance sheet designed to fide-politicise the development of key UK infrastructure exposure.
Income from non-Sterling assets is monitored and projects.
An additional potential source of operational UK projects hedged as appropriate.
JLIFs exposure to the Euro has increased will be nite life infrastructure funds reaching maturity and since the year-end following the acquisition of a 40% stake in the seeking to realise an exit for investors.
Given the proliferation of Barcelona Line 9 Section II Metro Stations project in January 2016 this type of fund in the mid-2000s and their typical investment see section 4.1 for further details.
horizon, JLIF anticipates a number of portfolios coming to market over the next few years.
Interest Rate Risk The Company has interest rate exposure through its own cash In addition, JLIF seeks to mitigate the impact of a slow-down in UK deal ow through overseas acquisitions in order to diversify deposits, the interest rate on the underlying project finance debt and on cash deposits held in the project SPVs in which JLIF is the portfolio and reduce its reliance on the UK for investment opportunities.
During periods in which the revolving credit facility is drawn, interest rate risk is also present on the cost of this debt.
JLIFs own long term cash deposits are generally minimal Pressures on Contract Terms and or Early Termination given its approach to raising new capital.
Similarly, the Fund There exists a risk that political and financial pressure could has no long term gearing and the periods in which the revolving result in certain public sector authorities seeking to use credit facility is drawn are typically short.
The main risk therefore contractual provisions in order to extract a financial benefit or lies in the investments themselves.
even a voluntary termination of a project contract.
JLIF and the Investment Adviser engage regularly with HM Treasury and other The project finance debt in the underlying instruments is governmental PPP units in order to remain aware of current policy typically hedged using interest rate swaps, through the developments and to represent the interests of the Company.
application of xed rate debt or through the matching of In the event of voluntary termination by the public sector increases in revenue to increases in debt finance costs.
counterparty, equity shareholders benefit from compensation Residual exposure is therefore minimal.
provisions within the project contracts that, in the majority of The projects do not hold significant levels of cash reserves to cases, ensures that market value is received.
To date voluntary support their funding structure, the forecast interest income from termination of projects has been sparse, the most recent being which is included in the yields received and in the valuation of in 2014, when the Hexham General Hospital PFI project not part the projects.
The projects seek to maximise this income as far as of JLIFs Portfolio underwent a voluntary termination by the possible by creating competitive tension between deposit takers.
Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust.
Sensitivities to changes in deposit rates are included in the Investment Advisers Report.
Change in Political Environment Affecting PPP Projects During the past decade, the procurement of public infrastructure Equity Market Sentiment Disrupts Capital Raising through PPPs has proliferated beyond the UK to become a JLIF has a five-year 180 million revolving credit facility, signed recognised approach globally.
Concession based projects procured in August 2015.
This provides the Company with short term in this manner form the core of JLIFs investment focus.
A shift in finance that can be accessed for completion of new acquisitions.
political focus away from the PPP model would impact JLIFs ability The facility is used to finance acquisitions prior to raising share to access new projects and potentially impact the way in which capital, thus mitigating the risk of not having adequate resources it engages with its public sector clients globally.
Through its to fund growth.
The facility is not intended to provide long term Investment Adviser, JLIF closely monitors the political environment gearing for the Fund, hence once this facility is drawn to an in countries in which it invests or is likely to invest in order to appropriate level an equity capital raise is initiated.
During the gauge political attitude towards and support for PPP.
period between drawing on the revolving credit facility and raising new equity capital there is a risk of disruption in the UK EU-membership equity markets which hinders the Companys ability to There are two risks, rstly, that following announcement of the successfully raise new capital with which to repay the credit in-out referendum in respect of EU membership to be held on facility.
The Investment Adviser, in collaboration with JLIFs 23 June 2016, there is a period of volatility in the markets in the Corporate Broker, monitors market sentiment and will not months preceding due to the uncertainty and, secondly, that the recommend drawing signicantly on the credit facility if it is UK could ultimately decide to exit the EU.
There is evidence of the likely that subsequent capital raising would be problematic.
former happening already with the value of Sterling depreciating by In the unlikely event that capital raising was disrupted JLIF could approximately 6% over the first two months of 2016.
If the UK were repay debt drawn on its revolving credit facility either through to leave the EU, there is the potential for this to impact UK gilt rates realisations of existing assets or from future investment income.
and the credit rating of the UK Government.
With evidence that investors see  as a safe haven in times of market turbulence, JLIF could in fact benefit while any uncertainty remains, although it is not unreasonable to expect greater volatility in the share price over the coming months.
Operational Spread of Facilities Management Contracts Competition for Assets JLIF often competes with other listed and private infrastructure 11 funds when bidding for assets.
In order to ensure assets acquired represent good value JLIF undertakes detailed due diligence on the assets it targets in order to identify risks as well as opportunities 2 for value enhancement.
JLIF benets from an Investment Adviser 8 with significant operational infrastructure experience and employs 4 a team of experienced external due diligence advisers who are, where possible, familiar with both the target asset s and with the 1 2 5 Fund itself.
Additionally, JLIF seeks to develop non-competitive 1 4 5 investment opportunities by nurturing long term relationships 2 1 3 with vendors and co-shareholders.
3 1 1 5 2 1 1 1 1 Diversication into countries outside the UK and into non-PPP 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 infrastructure projects also provides mitigation against aggressive competition.
JLIF recognises that certain renewable energy projects and other infrastructure projects that are not specically procured using the PPP model may represent good investment opportunities and create value for shareholders.
JLIF has the ability to invest up to 10% of its Total Assets in infrastructure assets that are not strictly PPP assets but that have a substantially similar risk prole and characteristics.
This affords JLIF the ability to bid for Spread of Management Services Contracts Portfolios that may include assets of such nature.
33 JLIF also benets from two First Offer Agreements with the John Laing Group giving it the right of first offer over a portfolio of PPP projects valued at over 500 million over the next five years.
Project Operations JLIF invests in projects in which much of the risk is either retained by the public sector client or passed down to sub-contractors.
However, some risk is retained by the Special Purpose Vehicle or project company SPV.
For example, 12 3 on some projects this may include poor operational performance 1 4 although often any deductions can be passed-down to service 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 providers, exceptional expenditures, major maintenance lifecycle overspend or an event that would affect the PPP project companys cover ratios.
JLIF outsources the management of the project SPVs to third party operators who provide experienced professionals who, in many cases, have worked on the same Stability of the Investment Adviser projects for many years.
Such professionals typically have The Investment Adviser, JLCM, is a key supplier to the Company excellent relationships with clients and co-shareholders and are providing investment advice, asset management and other key often based on site.
This is important so that relationships with financial and operating services.
The ongoing stability of the public sector clients can be maintained.
Investment Adviser, its ability to continue to provide these services In the event that a single project should suffer from a material and to commit sufficient resource to ensure a high standard 11 is maintained is therefore an important consideration for the issue, the diversity represented by JLIFs Portfolio of 57 assets 12 across seven sectors and four jurisdictions means that the Company.
In order to gain assurance on this the Board reviews the performance of the Investment Adviser and other service impact on the Portfolio as a whole is minimised.
providers regularly as well as engaging with the John Laing All of the projects in the Portfolio have obligations to provide Group senior management of which the Investment Adviser operations and maintenance services for the length of the is a wholly-owned subsidiary.
The project SPVs, in which JLIF invests, outsource the provision of these services to experienced facilities Cyber Risk management and management services companies.
JLIF There exists an increasing threat of cyber-attack in which a hacker ensures that a diverse range of providers is used to supply these or computer virus may attempt to access the JLIF website or JLIFs services to its projects such that failure of any single service secure data, or that of one of the SPVs in which JLIF invest, and provider has a minimal impact on the Portfolio as a whole.
attempt to either destroy or use this data for malicious purposes.
The following two charts show the diversity of facilities While we think it unlikely that JLIF or one of the SPVs would be management companies and management services companies the deliberate target of a cyber-attack, there is a possibility that providing services to projects in which JLIF is an investor.
one or other could be targeted as part of a random or general act.
JLIF and the project SPVs information technology providers have procedures in place to mitigate cyber-attacks, have in place business continuity plans and data is separately stored on multiple servers which is backed up regularly.
IT controls and processes are regularly reviewed by the Investment Adviser to ensure they remain robust and provide an appropriate level of protection against such risks.
Johnson Controls Sodexo Amey Seddon Pinnacle Housing Rydon Maintenance Reliance Skanska Lemcon Oy Black and MacDonald Serco Hyde Housing Balfour Beatty ISS Thales Carillion Sir Robert McAlpine Vinci Interserve NCS Caerphilly SPIE Matthew Hall United House Strukton Brookeld Adactus Housing Kier Mitie LIMS Bouygues Compass MAMG 2 DUO Skanska IML Hyde Thales Bouygues SRM Interserve Bilnger Berger HCP Semperian Equitix SMS BV Relative Exposure by Portfolio valuation m Relative Exposure by Portfolio valuation m 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 13.
Financial Compliance and Legal Portfolio Valuation Regulatory JLIF accounts for its interest in its wholly-owned subsidiary, JLIF is required to comply with certain London Stock Exchange JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. as investment at fair value through profit or and Guernsey regulatory requirements.
There is a risk that failure loss.
The principal component of the investments of the Company to comply with any of the relevant rules could result in a negative 11 are its Portfolio of 57 PPP assets.
JLCM is responsible for the reputational or financial impact on the Company.
preparation of a fair market valuation of the Portfolio, which is JLIF therefore ensures that it remains well informed as to the presented to and approved by the Board.
There is a risk that the legislation and guidance relevant to both the Company itself as valuation prepared by JLCM is not a fair reection of the market well as the Project Entities in which it invests.
This is achieved by valuation of JLIFs Portfolio which could result in it being either seeking legal counsel where appropriate and by providing training overor under-valued.
To provide additional assurance to both to the Investment Adviser and to the Board as appropriate.
the Board and JLIFs shareholders with respect to the valuation, an independent verication exercise of the methodology and The Company is a self-managed non-EU Alternative Investment assumptions applied by JLCM is performed by a leading Fund AIF.
There is a risk of non-compliance with the ongoing accountancy rm and an opinion provided to the Directors.
reporting requirements for countries in which JLIF is marketed.
JLIF continues to monitor for any changes to these requirements Dividend payment and will obtain appropriate legal advice as necessary.
JLIF relies on the receipt of cash distributions from its underlying The Company complies with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance portfolio of PPP assets to generate funds such that it is able to pay Act FATCA and its GIIN number is K2UFLF.
There is a risk that the cash distributions JLIF will continue to report as required under FATCA, and similar received in any given year are not sufficient to maintain the current legislation as brought in by OECD countries.
JLIF undertakes extensive scenario analysis to The Board has sought legal advice and noted the guidance from ensure that its cash ow projections are robust and that a the Financial Conduct Authority, after which it has concluded that sustainable approach is taken to dividend payments.
ordinary shares in the Company are excluded from the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules relating to restrictions on the retail Leverage distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes and There is a risk that a perception of over-leverage of the Fund close substitutes referred to as non-mainstream pooled increases the risk to the Companys investors and has a negative investments or NMPI.
However, JLIF does not hold any long term debt at the Fund level.
The 180 million revolving credit facility Long Term Viability Statement is used as short term bridge finance to enable the acquisition of The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over assets prior to the raising of equity capital, which is used to the three-year period to December 2018, taking account of the repay the debt drawn.
Companys current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented in the Risk Committee report.
Based Taxation on this robust assessment, the Directors have a reasonable Base Erosion profit Shifting BEPS expectation that the Company will be able to continue in JLIF values its Portfolio based on current enacted corporation tax operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2018. rates and tax rules.
Changes to these rates or rules in the future could impact the valuation of the Portfolio.
In making this statement, the Directors have considered and challenged the reports of the Investment Adviser in relation to the On 5 October 2015, the OECD published its final report on resilience of the Company, taking account of its current position, Base Erosion profit Shifting BEPS.
The report recommends the principal risks facing it in severe but possible scenarios, the member states adopt a xed ratio rule, which limits net effectiveness of any mitigating actions and the Companys risk deductions of interest to a percentage of EBITDA.
Where possible, sensitivity analysis has been undertaken investments are particularly at risk from this, by virtue of their to consider the potential impacts of such risks on the business high gearing.
As with other broad based regulatory initiatives, model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
it is likely much will change before the eventual implementation The sensitivity analysis undertaken considered the impact of a of the rules, which is currently expected in 2018.
UK HMRC has significant proportion of the Portfolio not yielding, which is a and continues to consult with UK companies to assess the plausible consequence of a number of the principal risks should impact of the recommendations, the most recent consultation they materialise, either in isolation or in parallel.
The sensitivity taking place in January 2016.
The most important of the BEPS analysis was premised on a number of assumptions, including that recommendations from an infrastructure investments perspective the Companys revolving credit facility remains in place and is relates to restrictions on the deductibility of interest costs.
available to provide short term finance for future acquisitions Whilst it is still unknown exactly how the UK will eventually undertaken in the period, that there will be sufficient liquidity within implement the BEPS recommendations, we are encouraged the market to raise new capital as and when required, that the by mention of possible exceptions, such as exclusion from the Investment Adviser continues on the same terms as those existing regime for senior debt related to public benefit projects and and that there is no annual uplift in dividends paid to shareholders.
the potential to grandfather existing arrangements in certain, albeit limited, circumstances.
Being an investor in PPP The Directors have determined that a three-year look forward to infrastructure projects such as hospitals, schools and social December 2018 is an appropriate period over which to provide housing projects, these would potentially mitigate against any its viability statement.
This is consistent with the outlook period significant negative impact felt by JLIF from the implementation used in economic and other medium term forecasts regularly of the new regime.
JLIF continues to monitor and participate prepared for the Board by the Investment Adviser and is the in the consultation processes with the UK HMRC as and when outlook period generally used by the Board in its consideration they occur and to assess the impact of any proposed new of any new strategies.
These reviews consider both the market legislation on the Company.
opportunity and the associated risks, principally the ability to raise third party funds and invest capital.
The Directors view on the going concern status of the Company can be found on page 43.
