54 GOVERNANCE Governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code and experiences to the oversight and guidance of the committed to the highest standards group.
The Board determined not to appoint a successor executive director to the Board following Johns The principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code retirement.
In non-executive director succession planning, the Code are the standards against which we measure the requirement for new or additional skills and ourselves and the information on the following pages experience on the Board will be considered in the light demonstrates how we apply the principles in practice.
information required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 can be found in the directors report on pages As previously announced, John Stewart, Chairman, is 242 to 245.
Each year, the Board reviews the companys retiring from the Board in 2016 and the process to identify corporate governance framework and compliance with a successor is currently underway.
Olaf Swantee will step the Code and the table on pages 58 and 59 sets out down from the Board following the conclusion of the AGM at a high level how we have complied with each of on 26 May 2016 and Julia Wilson will succeed Rudy the principles.
Markham as senior independent director.
Rudy will remain as a non-executive director until the AGM in May Governance at Legal & General is seen as an important 2017, providing important continuity as the company element of both our Board environment and organisational transitions to a new Chair.
Stuart Popham has indicated culture and is a key ingredient in the success of our his intention to step down from the Board prior to the 2017 business.
Our governance framework and policies support AGM.
The company has commenced a search for new good decision-making thereby contributing to the success non-executive directors, including a Chair of the Audit of the business over the long term.
It is the Boards Committee to succeed Julia Wilson.
responsibility to ensure we have an appropriate governance framework in place to continue to support Also, as previously announced, Mark Gregory intends our day-to-day operations and protect the interests of to retire from the company in January 2017. our stakeholders.
How the Board operates The Board The Board is led by the Chairman, John Stewart, As reported in 2014, we have seen two changes to and the day-to-day management of the group is the makeup of our Board during the course of the year.
led by Nigel Wilson, the group chief executive.
John Pollock, retired from his role as a director and The non-executives play a key role in contributing chief executive officer, LGAS: and Lindsay Tomlinson, to the delivery of strong organisational governance non-executive director, also retired from the Board, but the role of the non-executives is not limited to both at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
In light of these the boardroom.
Examples of some of the other changes, the Board has remained cognisant of the need activities undertaken by the non-executives during to maintain a well-balanced Board with the right mix of the course of the year are set out on page 54. individuals who can apply their wider business knowledge ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE OF THE FORMAL BOARD MEETING SCHEDULE Julia Wilson, Carolyn Bradley, Olaf Swantee and Lizabeth Zlatkus attended A number of the non-executives attended the 2015 Community Awards the 50 50 by 2020 Networking Event, which seeks to raise awareness of ceremony, hosted by the Chairman.
The awards provide an opportunity gender diversity initiatives in Legal & General and has the objective of to showcase our employees who work hard to make a difference in other increasing the number of women in leadership roles.
Lizabeth attended peoples lives and allow them to share their stories of what inspires them the event as a key note speaker and shared her career journey and advice to give their time to help others.
whilst Julia, Carolyn and Olaf took part in a panel discussion looking at career challenges and how to overcome them, the benets of diverse leadership teams and improving the balance in the executive pipeline.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 55 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is accountable for the long term success of How the Board spent its time in 2015 the company by setting the groups strategic objectives The Board met formally ten times during 2015 and, on and monitoring performance against those objectives.
a number of occasions, Board sub-committees were In doing so, the Board meets formally on a regular basis constituted in order to deal with matters arising in the and at each meeting, considers strategic proposals, ordinary course of business.
Preparation for the transition acquisitions and major transactions as a standing agenda to Solvency II was a key focus of the Board.
The group and its subsidiaries operate within a immediately preceding each Board meeting, the clearly dened delegated authority framework, which non-executives met privately with the group chief has been fully embedded over the course of the year.
The Board also held two separate strategy The delegated authority framework ensures that there events during the year: a one-day event in June, which is an appropriate level of Board contribution to and was followed up with a two-day event in September.
oversight of key decisions and that the day-to-day A table of individual Board member attendance at the business is managed effectively.
The Board delegated formal Board and Committee meetings is set out authority framework consists of a clearly dened schedule on page 59. of matters reserved for the group Board.
The types of matters reserved for the Board include, amongst others, The group Board agenda is set by the Chairman and matters relating to the groups strategic plan, risk appetite, follows a set framework which consists of four broad and systems of internal control and corporate governance discussion areas: an update from the group chief policies.
Those matters which are not reserved are executive and the key business division heads: a Solvency delegated by the Board to group level committees and II update and discussion: presentations and discussions to the group CEO, who then onward delegates decisionon strategic proposals, acquisitions, major transactions making to the Group Capital Committee and his and group matters: and a Board governance update.
Board members and individuals from the relevant business areas are invited to present on each of these items.
KEY AREAS OF FOCUS DISCUSSION AND ACTIONS ARISING Strategy At its January meeting, the Board considered and approved the groups five-year Business Plan and 2015 Budget.
This included a review of the divisional strategic objectives, initiatives and KPIs.
The Board held two separate strategy events in 2015: a one-day event in June and a two-day event in September.
At both events, the Board discussed progress against the groups strategic plan, the individual plans for each of the business divisions and optionality for the group and its individual businesses looking forward into 2016 and beyond.
At each Board meeting, the Board considered a schedule of corporate and material transactions to ensure that proposed transactions are aligned with the groups strategy.
In particular, the Board considered the disposals of Legal & General France and Legal & General International Ireland Limited and the sale of the companys Egyptian Life Insurance joint venture.
A wide range of ongoing corporate and commercial transactions are reported to the Board to provide Board members with full opportunity to debate and provide feedback.
Solvency II The Board spent a significant amount of time in 2015 preparing for Solvency II and monitoring the latest developments with regards to implementation plans for Solvency II.
The Board focused in particular on the groups Matching Adjustment and Internal Model applications.
Governance At its January meeting, the Board considered the output from the 2014 internally facilitated Board evaluation.
These findings were also considered by the Corporate Governance Committee.
Detailed recommendations arising from the evaluation were then considered by the Corporate Governance Committee and the Board at their February meetings and proposed recommendations were subsequently approved by the Board.
The Board is regularly updated by the group general counsel and company secretary on emerging regulation and governance changes.
The Board has particularly focused on the implementation of the Senior Insurance Managers Regime for the group.
Stakeholders The Board regularly considers the groups relationship with various stakeholder groups.
During the course of the year, the Boards agenda allowed for discussion on various employee matters including the results of the annual employee survey, shareholders matters, customers issues, and the groups impact on and relationship with wider society.
The Board were provided with an update on the groups CSR Policy and considered performance against Environmental, Social and Governance ESG targets for 2014.
The Board also considered forward-looking ESG targets.
The Board welcomes the opportunity to hear the views of major shareholders and following the publication of the year-end results, the companys brokers were invited to present investor feedback to the Board.
The Board also commissioned a report on investor perceptions, which was undertaken by Makinson Cowell.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 56 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT Strategy away days Strategy remains high on the Boards agenda throughout the course of the year.
The Board held two The strategy events were a valuable separate strategy events outside of the formal Board opportunity for the Board to have time meeting schedule in 2015.
These events provide the and space for a more in-depth review Board with an opportunity to reect on the progress the groups strategy is making against the backdrop of the business and to discuss strategic of the five macro trends identied as the drivers of issues, priorities and options going strategy, and also allow Board members to debate, forward.
We were also able to spend scrutinise and review performance against the strategic valuable time with the wider senior plan.
The Board also focuses on the future and the next phase of the companys strategy.
The agendas for each management team, enabling us to get of the strategy events included debate and discussion a more first-hand appreciation of the on strategic options involving the heads of each of the talent, energy and commitment that groups six key business divisions: Legal & General Investment Management, Legal & General Retirement, exists in the group.
Legal & General Capital, Legal & General America, CAROLYN BRADLEY, Insurance and Savings.
Non-executive | | L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15 57 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT Ensuring our directors have the right skills and During the course of the year, a number of development experience to maintain an effective Board activities have taken place including one-to-one brieng sessions for non-executive directors with key members The Board places great value on training and development of the senior management team and more focused both within the business and at a group Board level, and group Executive Business Awareness sessions EBAs.
believes that ongoing training is essential to maintaining With the increased amount of time spent by the Board an effective and knowledgeable Board.
The group in considering Solvency II this year, there have been a company secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring number of EBAs focused on Solvency II developments that all new directors receive a full and comprehensive and regulation.
Additional EBA topics this year have also induction programme on joining the Board and that included the Economic Outlook and a deep dive into the continuing education and development opportunities are LGIM UK business.
made available to all Board members at regular intervals throughout the year.
2015 BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATIONS Each year, the Board considers the most appropriate method for The review focused in particular on the following areas: conducting a review of the Board and its Committees performance and Board composition, expertise and dynamics consideration is given to the number of changes that have been made to Strategic and performance oversight the composition of the Board during the course of the year, the tenure of Succession planning and human resource management Board members and any factors which may have impacted the groups Priorities for change strategy during the year.
The Board also considered which methods had been utilised for conducting previous reviews, the two previous years Given the increased focus of the Boards activities with regards having both been facilitated internally.
to Solvency II during the course of the year, the review also sought to address the effectiveness of the Board in engagement with the The Board determined that it would be appropriate to carry out an Solvency II process and preparations.
external review by an independent reviewer in 2015.
This review was facilitated by Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock who was engaged to undertake The review concluded that the Board had operated effectively against a the review based on set terms of reference agreed in advance with the backdrop of some exceptional issues including preparation for Solvency Chairman.
Oliver has no other connection to the company.
The aim II and the Chairman succession.
A summary of recommendations from of the review was to assess the effectiveness of the Board, both as a the review is set out below, together with an update on the progress collective unitary board, and at individual Board member level, in order made against the recommendations from the 2014 review.
to implement any actions required to become a more effective Board.
The performance of each of the Board Committees was also assessed.
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM 2015 Board and Committee agendas and papers should be reviewed with In reviewing the composition of the Board, specic consideration should a view to enhancing the structure and content of papers, in particular, be given to recruiting NEDs with insurance and or asset management ensuring that key considerations and messages are delivered effectively.
Further, NEDs with international experience were also seen to be important future additions to the Board.
The Board should continue to develop its understanding of the views The Boards engagement on strategy should continue to be enhanced.
This could be facilitated through a programme of Following the success of the 2015 June half day strategy checkpoint, major shareholder meetings and additional meetings with the groups a further afternoon strategy discussion should be scheduled in June Corporate Brokers.
as a lead in to the September strategy offsite.
This should be focused on 23 strategic priorities.
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM 2014 REVIEW PROGRESS AGAINST 2014 RECOMMENDATIONS In making future appointments to the Board, the Nominations The Nominations Committee remains committed to considering a Committee should consider candidates with greater international wide pool of candidates from diverse backgrounds when considering experience, asset management expertise and those from future appointments to the Board.
This will be the case when the Board insurance backgrounds.
There have been no new appointments during 2015.
The Board should continue to further develop strategic options and Strategy remains a key focus at each Board meeting and during the year, revisit the progress on discussions that took place at the strategy day.
the Board held both a mid-year strategy event and a two-day strategy event in September.
The non-executives should meet more regularly with the group chief Prior to each Board meeting, time is now allocated for the nonexecutive in the absence of the rest of the executive.
executives to meet with the group chief executive immediately preceding the Board meeting.
A review of the number of Board meetings should be undertaken and the The number of Board meetings has been reviewed and as result, seven time allocated to each meeting.
formal meetings have been scheduled for 2016.
In 2015, there were eight scheduled meetings with two further meetings having been scheduled during the course of the year.
Meeting durations have been extended to provide more time for discussion and debate.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 58 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT Committed to the highest standards Compliance with the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, we are pleased to report that we have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: frc.
EFFECTIVENESS A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board B4 Development The Board met formally ten times during The Nominations Committee is responsible The Board places great value on the inductions the year and a number of sub-committee for reviewing the composition of the Board, that are offered to new non-executives and meetings were also constituted to deal and in making recommendations for the ongoing training opportunities made with matters such as the final approval of appointments to the Board, the Committee available to all Board members.
Further details the interim and half year results.
The Boards considers the balance of skills, experience of the development sessions which have taken agenda is set by the Chairman and deals with and knowledge needed in order to enhance place during the year are set out on page 57. those matters specically reserved to the the Board and support the company in the B5 Information and support Board including matters relating to the groups execution of its strategy.
Details of the work Procedures are in place to ensure that strategic plan, risk appetite, and systems of undertaken by the Committee are set out Board members receive accurate and timely internal control and corporate governance on pages 60 and 61. information via a secure electronic portal.
Matters delegated to the group All directors have access to the advice of the B2 Appointments to the Board chief executive include managing the groups The Nominations Committee is responsible group general counsel and company secretary business in line with the Strategic Plan and for leading the process of appointing new as well as independent professional advice approved risk appetite, and responsibility directors to the Board.
The Committee is at the expense of the company.
for the operation of the internal control committed to ensuring that all appointments B6 Evaluation framework.
are made on merit above all else with due The Board determined that an externally regard for the benets of all types of diversity, A2 Division of responsibilities facilitated evaluation would be most The roles of the Chairman and group chief including gender.
appropriate in 2015 and this review was carried executive are clearly dened and the role out by Lintstock.
Details of the evaluation and B3 Commitment proles are reviewed as part of the annual The non-executive directors letters of an update on the recommendations from the governance review undertaken by the Board.
appointment set out the time commitment 2014 evaluation are set out on page 57.
John Stewart, the Chairman, is responsible expected from them.
Given the changing B7 Re-election for leading the Board while Nigel Wilson, regulatory environment and the preparations All directors were subject to shareholder group chief executive, is responsible for the for Solvency II this year, this time commitment election or re-election at the 2015 AGM, with day-to-day management of the company has gone beyond that set out in the letter of the exception of those directors who were within the strategy set by the Board.
This time commitment is retiring at the conclusion of the meeting.
External A3 The Chairman directors, with the exception of Olaf Swantee, The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, commitments, which may impact existing who will be retiring from the Board at the manages the meeting timetable and encourages time commitments, must be agreed with the conclusion of the AGM, will be subject to an open and constructive dialogue during Chairman.
The significant commitments shareholder re-election at the 2016 AGM.
of each of the directors are included in the Board biographies on pages 50 and 51.
The A4 Non-executive directors Chairmans commitments have reduced The success of the Board is underpinned during the year and he has no commitments by an open and constructive dialogue in the that would impact on his time commitment boardroom and the Chairman actively invites to the company.
the views of all Board members.
The Chairman is available to the non-executives and over the course of the year, the non-executives have met in the absence of the executives.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 59 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board and committee meetings attendance Corporate Appointment Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Governance Director Date Board 10 Committee 9 Committee 5 Committee 6 Committee 5 Committee 4 J Stewart 1 January 201010 5 4 M J Gregory 28 January 2009 10 R Markham 4 October 2006 10 5 6 54 R Meddings 8 December 2014 10 8 8 565 1 S Popham 1 July 2011 6 3 5 4 C Bradley 8 December 2014 9 5 6 J Wilson 9 November 2011 10 9 5 4 N D Wilson 1 September 2009 10 M Zinkula 18 September 2012 10 L Zlatkus 1 December 2013 10 9 5 5 O Swantee 1 August 2014 10 8 5 2 J B Pollock 11 December 2003 4 5 3 L Tomlinson 1 May 2013 5 5 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 1.
Absence from Board and Committee meetings was a result of undergoing major surgery.
Retired with effect from 21 May 2015.
C. ACCOUNTABILITY D. REMUNERATION E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS C1 Financial and business reporting D1 The level and components of E1 Dialogue with shareholders The Strategic Report can be located on pages remuneration Board members take an active role in The company aims to reward employees 1 to 47, and this sets out the performance of engaging with both institutional and retail fairly and our remuneration policy is designed the company, the business model, strategy, shareholders, both in private meetings and to promote the long-term success of the and the risks and uncertainties relating to the in wider forums such as the AGM.
The company whilst aligning both the interests of companys future prospects.
Chairman and the senior independent the directors and shareholders.
The work of director aim to meet some of the major C2 Risk management and internal control the Committee is set out on pages 68 to 89. institutional investors at least once per year The Board sets the companys risk appetite and are available to meet other investors on and annually reviews the effectiveness of the D2 Procedure request.
The Chairman shares feedback from companys risk management and internal The Remuneration Committee is responsible these meetings with the wider Board.
A description of the principal for setting the remuneration for all executive risks facing the company is set out on pages 46 directors.
Details of the composition and the E2 Constructive use of the AGM and 47.
Page 45 also set out how the directors work of the Remuneration Committee is set The Board values the AGM as an important have assessed the prospects of the company, out in the Directors Remuneration Report opportunity to engage with investors.
over what period they have done so and why on pages 68 to 89.
Attendees have the opportunity to ask they consider that period to be appropriate questions of the Board and are invited to the viability statement.
The activities of meet the Board following the formal business the Audit and Group Risk Committees, which of the meeting.
assist the Board with its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, audit matters, risk appetite setting and risk management, are set out on pages 62 to 67.
C3 Audit Committee and auditors The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors and the Board delegates a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee including oversight of the groups financial reporting processes, internal control and risk management framework, and the work undertaken by the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the website, www.
com The Audit Committee chair provides regular updates to the Board on key matters discussed by the Committee.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
