62 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report JULIA WILSON Membership of the Committee is set out in the table below: Chair Members Julia Wilson Committee member since 9 November 2011, Chair since 22 May 2013 Lizabeth Zlatkus Committee member since 1 May 2014 Olaf Swantee Committee member since 8 December 2014 Richard Meddings Committee member since 9 April 2015 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the group Chairman: group chief executive: group chief financial officer: group chief risk officer: group financial controller: group chief internal auditor: LGAS and Legal & General Retirement finance director: LGIM finance director: group actuary: director of group tax: and representatives of the external auditor,  LLP.
During 2015, the Committee met nine times.
The Letter from the Chair Committees terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis and the current terms of reference, Dear Shareholder reviewed in December 2015, are available on our website.
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report The Committees time over the course of the year was for the year ended 31 December 2015.
In addition to the split between interim and year-end financial reporting, disclosure requirements for Audit Committees set out monitoring and reviewing internal control procedures in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and reviewing the effectiveness and work of both the this report is intended to give some insight into the work internal and external audit functions.
Another major of the Committee during 2015, in particular the significant focus of the Committee this year has been ensuring accounting issues considered by the Committee which preparedness for Solvency II.
Our work in this regard are set out on page 64. has been extensive, ranging from reviewing the implementation of the internal model, the modelling, The Committee covers much ground during the course methodologies and assumptions used to calculate the of a financial year and therefore it is crucial that the balance sheet, and ensuring procedures to meet the new Committee has an effective balance of skills and financial reporting requirements are in place.
experience to deliver its responsibilities.
The Committee strives to maintain membership from a variety of In addition, the Committee has also looked closely at the backgrounds, with all members possessing a wealth additional requirements introduced by the publication of operational and financial experience.
A strong degree of the 2014 Code, in particular the requirement to of financial literacy is a key consideration when appointing include a viability statement in the 2015 annual report.
With this in mind, Richard Meddings was The Committee considered a report from the group welcomed to the Committee in 2015 adding to the financial controller on this requirement and advised Committees existing operational and financial experience.
It is worth highlighting that a number of the Committees The information on the following pages sets out in detail members serve on both the Audit Committee and Group the activities of the Committee over the course of the Risk Committees to ensure any overlapping issues are year and I hope that you will nd this report useful in appropriately identied and addressed.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors and I am pleased to report that the Committees own annual evaluation found that the Committees performance during the year remained effective.
Julia Wilson Chair | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 63 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT How the Committee spent its time in 2015 Accounting and financial reporting The Committee is a senior Board committee and has The Committee reviews the interim and annual third line governance responsibilities which include the financial statements and the significant financial oversight of financial disclosures and corporate reporting.
The responsibilities of the Committee include assisting The significant accounting issues considered in relation the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regards to the 2015 financial statements are detailed on page 64. to monitoring the integrity of the groups financial statements, monitoring the effectiveness of the internal In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, the control including financial control framework and the Committee also reviews the disclosures to be made in independence and objectivity of the internal and external relation to internal control and risk management, and auditors.
As a Committee, we are also responsible for principal risks and uncertainties.
An important focus of advising the Board on whether the annual report and the Committee in 2015 was assisting the Board in ensuring accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, understandable and these considerations have been are fair, balanced and understandable FBU and provide factored into our year-end processes.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model The Committee has an annual work plan aligned with the and strategy.
financial reporting cycle of the company.
The Committees activities fall into three principal areas: The Committee considered the corporate governance provisions which require the Board to make this statement Accounting and financial reporting: on the report, together with information on the processes already in place or being introduced to support the Reviewing the interim and annual financial statement to be made.
statements and ensuring that the strategic report is consistent with the financial statements whilst giving To assist the Committee in assessing whether the annual consideration to issues addressed in the preparation report meets the FBU requirements and provides the of the accounts, including the level of insurance information necessary for shareholders to assess the provisions and reserves and other significant companys position and performance, business model areas of judgement and strategy, there are robust year-end governance Reviewing the groups going concern assumptions procedures in place.
These include ensuring that all of and the proposed viability statement those involved in the preparation of our annual report have been appropriately trained and fully briefed on the Considering the findings of the internal audit FBU requirements: internal legal verication of all factual functions reviews in respect of many matters statements, together with legal verication of descriptions including the groups Solvency II preparedness.
used within the narrative: regular engagement and Such reviews included reviews into Solvency II data feedback with senior management on proposed content and governance controls, Internal Model validation and changes and feedback from external advisors and business readiness corporate reporting specialists, remuneration and Reviewing the external auditors reports on the strategic reporting advisors, external auditor to enhance groups preparedness to implement the Solvency II the quality of our reporting.
regulatory framework in relation to the balance sheet, technical provisions and own funds The Committee recommended to the Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2015 annual report and accounts Internal control management: are fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the Reviewing and advising the Board on the content and information necessary for shareholders to assess the clarity of disclosures in the directors statements companys position and performance, business model related to internal controls and risk management.
As mentioned above, together with the Group Risk Committee, the Committee has reviewed the External audit and the external auditor: key assumptions and methodologies of the risk based Assessing the effectiveness of the annual audit capital model as well as related Solvency II disclosures through discussions with the external auditor on and the proposed disclosures pertaining to the groups the scope and planning of their audit for the economic capital disclosure.
forthcoming year During the year, the Committee has also kept abreast Reviewing the extent of non-audit services provided of significant and emerging accounting developments, by the external auditor and monitoring the objectivity in particular the implementation of new UK GAAP and independence needed in the conduct of the audit accounting standards from 1 January 2015, including the Setting the fees of the external auditor for the proposal to adopt FRS 101 on the basis that no disclosures conduct of the audit from our 2014 UK GAAP financial statements would be omitted on adoption of this new accounting standard.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 64 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT significant accounting issues considered by the Committee ISSUE COMMITTEES RESPONSE Valuation of non-participating insurance contract liabilities retirement: The Committee monitored those factors affecting the valuation of non-participating insurance liabilities for retirement products by considering: The non-participating insurance liabilities for retirement products are significant in size and their estimation is inherently judgemental.
Valuation interest rates which are used to discount the liabilities.
These are sensitive to judgements made, for example, on credit default of the backing assets, as well as the investment data used to calculate the yield on these assets and the methodology used to model the asset cash ows to calculate the internal rate of return.
The Committee focused on changes to reserving assumptions and other modelling changes.
Longevity assumptions which estimate how long policyholders receiving annuity payments will live.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of the controls over the accuracy and completeness of the data used in determining the longevity assumptions and the validity of independent industry data supporting those assumptions.
Valuation of complex investments commercial loans, CDOs and The valuation of commercial loans, CDOs, derivatives and structured direct investments: solutions require the use of complex models and management judgement.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the valuation process for these Commercial loans, CDOs, derivatives and structured solutions are investments is robust.
The Committee considered the investment valuation significant in size and changes in estimates could result in material processes and controls in place over such investments.
Valuation of non-participating insurance liabilities insurance: The Committee has reviewed the methodology for calculating reserves including the allowance made for payments to and from reassurance The non-participating insurance liabilities for protection contracts are counterparties.
The assumptions for rate of future mortality how many an important component of the profitability for this line of business and customers will die during the policy term and persistency how many require judgements to be made regarding the assumed rates of mortality customers will discontinue cover are based on the companys internal and persistency.
The company makes extensive use of reassurance to experience and use judgement about how experience may vary in future.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions and the expected level of prudence.
Internal control The Committee considers the control environment and A significant focus during 2015 has been the related issues, root causes and managements responses implementation of the Solvency II programme, with and follow up activities.
It is assisted by the work of both the internal audit function covering all three Solvency II the internal and external auditors.
In conjunction with the pillars.
This has included the Committee monitoring Group Risk Committee, the Committee assists the Board the internal auditor functions findings on methodology in ensuring the group operates within a framework of for risk calibrations, implementation of the internal model prudent and effective controls that allows risk to be and delivery of the risk management framework.
The groups control All significant audits were reported to the Committee.
policies and procedures, which are in accordance with the The Committee also reviewed progress against the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on risk internal audit annual plan including the mid-year refreshed management, internal control and related financial and plan, resource requirements and open audit issues.
business reporting, have been in place during 2015 and up to the date this report was approved.
The groups system The Committee received and considered reports from of internal control is designed to manage rather than the external auditor on their assessment of the control eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not environment as well as reports from senior management absolute assurance against material loss.
on how they are responding to internal control recommendations made by internal audit and the During 2015, the Committee was assisted in its activities external auditor.
The internal control and risk management by regular reports from the groups internal audit function systems cover the groups financial reporting process on their audits and assessment of the control environment.
and the groups process for preparation of consolidated The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the groups financial statements.
For 2015, no significant failings or internal audit function, including internal audit resources, weaknesses were identied.
plans and performance as well as how the function interacts with management and the business divisions.
In particular, the Committee considers the alignment of the internal audit plan with the groups key risks.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 65 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The external auditor There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees choice of external auditor.
Each year, the Committee reviews the external auditors audit plan to ensure it aligns with the Committees view In 2015, the group spent 1.7 million on non-audit services of the areas of significant risk of financial misstatement.
Further details The Committee receives regular reports from the can be found in Note 36 to the consolidated financial external auditor on audit findings and significant statements.
This represents 21.3% of the total audit fee accounting issues.
In 2015, the Committee also for 2015.
This spend was higher than the previous year reviewed the external auditors assurance work due to the significant amount of work involved in on Solvency II.
Our policy is to approach other rms for significant non-audit work.
However, The Committee judges the external auditor on the for Solvency II assurance work, the external auditors quality of their audit findings, managements response experience and built-up knowledge of the groups and stakeholder feedback.
The Committee assesses the business meant their engagement was considered effectiveness of the external auditor against some most effective and efficient.
of the following criteria: Analysis of current and prior-year spend on audit, other Provision of timely and accurate industry specic and assurance and non-assurance services: technical knowledge 2015 2014 2013 Maintaining a professional and open dialogue with Audit and related 8.0 5.6 5.6 the Committee Chairman and members at all times Other assurance 0.4 0.9 0.1 Delivery of an efficient audit and the ability to meet Non-assurance 1.3 0.7 1.3 objectives within the agreed time frames Total 9.7 7.2 7.0 The Committee Chair meets regularly with the external The groups policy requires that all services with an auditor throughout the course of the year.
The Committee anticipated cost in excess of a specified amount are also meets with the external auditor in private throughout subject to a full competitive tender involving at least one the year.
other alternate party in addition to the external auditor.
If the external auditor is selected following the tender The Committee reviews and approves the terms process, the Committee is responsible for approving the of engagement of the external auditor and monitors external auditors fees on the engagement.
For services the independence of the external auditor including with an anticipated cost below the specified amount, overseeing, and in certain circumstances approving, the the group chief financial officer has authority to approve engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work.
The external auditor and management The Committee is cognisant of the requirements report regularly to the Committee on the nature and governing the appointment of an external auditor, notably fees relating to non-audit services provided under the requirements of the Competition and Markets this authority.
Authority CMA in relation to the mandatory re-tendering In order to maintain the objectivity of the external audit of audit services every ten years, together with the process, the Committee supports the rotation programme European Unions requirements for mandatory rm for audit engagement partners required every five years.
The company confirms that it has complied with The current audit partner commenced his engagement the provisions of the CMAs Order for the financial year in 2013.
The audit tender process will be completed under review.
in advance of the expiry of the audit partners five  LLP has been the groups year tenure.
The Committee continues to consider external auditor for a number of years.
The audit was last  LLP to be the appropriate audit tendered in full in 2006 with a partial re-tender process rm for the company for 2016 taking into consideration in 2009.
The Committee is carrying out a tender process their audit effectiveness and the audit needs of the group.
in respect of external audit services during 2016 2017 to ensure compliance with legislation, taking into consideration FRC guidance on best practice in particular ensuring independence in respect of potential audit rms.
The existing external audit rm will not be invited to re-tender given the duration of its tenure to date.
We have approached a range of rms including the big four and mid-tier rms.
Short listed rms will be requested to complete a detailed Request For Proposal RFP.
A full tender will follow the receipt of rms responses to the RFP.
The new external audit rm is expected to be appointed in respect of the calendar year 2018.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
