66 GOVERNANCE Group Risk Committee report RICHARD The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in MEDDINGS fullling its responsibilities in relation to the oversight of Chairman of risk within the group and to provide advice in relation to the Group Risk Committee current and potential future risk exposures of the group.
This includes reviewing the groups risk appetite and risk prole and assessing the effectiveness of the groups risk management framework.
The groups approach to the management of risk is set out in more detail on pages 43 to 47.
The key responsibilities of the Committee, as set out in the terms of reference, are to: Advise the Board in relation to the groups overall risk appetite for each of the categories of principal risk to which the group may be exposed Oversee and advise the Board on the current risk exposures of the group Oversee the management of those categories The Committees role is to advise the of risk to which the group may be exposed Provide oversight of the groups overall risk Board on risk appetite and tolerance framework ensuring that the principal risks are in setting the future strategy, and to being appropriately assessed provide advice on what constitutes Advise the Board on the appropriateness of the groups risk appetite acceptable risk taking.
Review and approve the groups risk strategy, policies and procedures Monitor the impact of the principal risks on the groups strategy and consider changes to the risks arising at a group level as a consequence of the The Committee and its remit groups strategy, market and regulatory events The Committee comprises five independent Advise the Remuneration Committee on specic non-executive directors.
risk adjustments to be applied to performance objectives and other issues, as requested by the Members Remuneration Committee Richard Meddings Committee member since 1 December 2014, Chairman since 9 April 2015 Committee activities during 2015 Rudy Markham Committee member since 15 October 2014 Stuart Popham Committee member since 1 July 2011 The work of the Committee is supported by the group chief risk officer and company secretary who assist the Julia Wilson Committee member since 24 July 2013 Lizabeth Zlatkus Committee member since 26 February 2014 Committee chairman in planning the Committees work and ensuring that the Committee receives accurate and timely information.
Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the group Chairman: group chief executive: group chief During the year, the Committee focused on the financial officer: group chief risk officer: group chief following areas: internal auditor: and representatives of the external auditor,  LLP.
Group chief risk ofcers report The Committee met five times during 2015.
The Each quarter, the Committee receives a report from effectiveness of the Committee during the year was the group chief risk officer.
This report brings to the reviewed as part of the internally facilitated evaluation Committees attention key risk factors in the operating of the Board and its Committees.
environment of the groups businesses and the potential risks that may raise.
The review includes analysis of risks arising from the macro-economic outlook and conditions in financial markets, together with | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 67 GOVERNANCE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE REPORT geopolitical, legislative and regulatory change risks that Risk-based capital model may impact the groups businesses.
The Committee has reviewed throughout the year Alongside the group chief risk ofcers report, the different aspects of the groups risk-based capital model, Committee receives regular reporting on risk appetite, which is used to determine the economic capital comparing actual positions relative to the groups risk requirements for the group and forms the calculation appetite statement, management information detailing engine for the groups Solvency II internal model.
the groups exposures to financial and operational risks, This has included the review of the key assumptions and other matters such as the nature of reports made and methodologies as well as the outputs of the model under the groups whistleblowing policy.
These reviews enabled the Committee to approve the Committee also receives a detailed report on key the groups Solvency II internal model application conduct risk matters and an assessment of the overall prior to its submission to the Prudential Regulatory prole of conduct risks for the group.
Focused business and risk reviews Own risk and solvency assessment ORSA Time is allocated at each Committee meeting to carry The ORSA is an ongoing assessment of the risks to out a focused deep dive review of a particular risk area.
which Legal & General is exposed and an evaluation The purpose of these reviews is to enable Committee of the sufciency of resources to sustain the business members to examine the risk prole of the core business strategy over the plan horizon.
Over the course of the lines and to consider the robustness of the frameworks in year the Committee considered different aspects of place to manage the key risk exposures.
The table below the groups ORSA process.
gives examples of some of the key reviews that took place Activities have included the review of proposed stress during the year: tests and scenarios to be used in the evaluation of capital adequacy, the prole of risks within the groups strategic plan and how they may change over the planning period, Longevity risk a review of the groups approach to assessing and pricing for longevity and the use of risk syndication techniques within and the groups overall capacity to bear the risks the groups overall approach to managing longevity risk identied.
A formal ORSA report is subject to annual review by the Committee prior to formal approval of Cofunds business a review of the risks implicit in the platform the group Board.
business and the approaches by business management to ensuring risks are managed within appropriate tolerances Risk governance Interest rate, ination, currency risks consideration of the Sound frameworks of risk management and internal groups approaches to managing these risks in the context control are essential in the management of risks which of asset liability management may impact the fullment of the companys strategic objectives.
During the year, the Committee has received Credit risk developments in the groups approach to controlling updates on the continued development of our risk exposures to credit risk with specic focus on bond portfolios governance framework.
Liquidity risk consideration of the groups liquidity risk management framework LGIM business the risk prole of LGIMs wholesale business and the management of new risks presented through its growth strategy Risk appetite The July meeting of the Committee undertook a detailed review of the operation of the groups risk appetite framework and the key measures and tolerances used within the framework, recommending a number of renements to the group Board.
In December, the Committee considered the risk prole of the groups strategic plan and its alignment with the groups overall risk appetite.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
