60 GOVERNANCE Nominations Committee report JOHN STEWART The role of the Committee Chairman The Committee has overall responsibility for leading the process for new appointments to the Board and ensuring that these appointments bring the required skills and experience to the Board.
As part of this, the Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure the Board is made up of the right people with the necessary skills and experience to direct the company in the successful execution of its strategy.
The Committees key responsibilities are: Reviewing the criteria for identifying and nominating candidates based on the specication for a prospective appointment including the required skills and capabilities: Considering succession planning for directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities Succession planning is a key focus facing the company, and what skills and expertise are needed by the Board in the future: for the Nominations Committee Keeping under review the leadership needs of the as part of its role in ensuring that organisation, both executive and non-executive, the Board has the right skills and with a view to safeguarding the continued ability of the company to compete effectively in the experience to direct the company market place: and in the successful execution of Reviewing the time commitment required from non-executive directors and assessing the its strategy.
non-executive directors other significant commitments to ensure that they continue to be able to full their duties effectively.
The Committees terms of reference which set out The composition of the Committee full details of the Committees responsibilities can The Committee is made up of all independent be viewed on our website.
The table below sets out How the Committee spent its time in 2015 the current membership.
The group chief executive and HR director may be invited to attend meetings The Committee met five times during 2015.
Following where this may assist the Committee in fullling its the appointments of three new non-executive directors responsibilities, and most notably in relation to during 2014, the Committee has focused in the latter part executive appointments and succession planning.
of this year on determining its future requirements for supporting the company through the next phase of its Members Members strategy following the transition to the Solvency II regime.
John Stewart Julia Wilson Rudy Markham Richard Meddings Succession planning for both the executive and nonStuart Popham Lizabeth Zlatkus executive directors is a key element of the Committees Carolyn Bradley Olaf Swantee work and the Committee, led by the senior independent director, has initiated the process for a successor to the In line with our conicts of interest management Chairman whose retirement was announced in November.
policy, a director will be asked to absent themselves The timing of the announcement of the Chairmans from any discussions relating to his her own decision to retire allows the Committee to conduct a full reappointment or succession.
and thorough search process and will ensure a smooth and orderly transition to a new Chair.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 61 GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee will also lead the process for the search The Board has considered Lord Davies final Women for the successor to the group CFO who will be retiring on Boards report and noted with interest the new from the group on 31 January 2017 and for further recommendation for a new voluntary target for a third non-executive directors.
of all Board members in FTSE 350 companies to be women by 2020.
During the year, there were also changes to the executive make-up of the Board following the retirement of John The Board has made encouraging progress, not Pollock from the Board at the 2015 AGM.
Following the only in increasing the diversity on our Board but also decision not to make a direct replacement for John on in supporting the delivery of the talent and leadership the Board, a new business and management structure for programmes within the organisation which seek to the LGAS business was implemented at the end of 2014. address gender imbalance by removing barriers that prevent women from realising their potential.
The box The Committee evaluates the independence of all nonbelow demonstrates the progress that has been made.
executives and undertakes an annual review of each non-executive directors other interests.
The Board was Board members actively participate in discussions satisfied that each non-executive remained independent relating to talent and leadership and a number of Board and continued to have sufficient time to discharge their members act as mentors to individual employees who responsibilities to the company.
Rudy Markham has have been identied as future leaders.
The company served on the Board for nine years and, as a result, his supports the Legal & General 50 50 by 2020 Network continued independence was subject to more rigorous which aims to have a 50 50 balance of men and women review.
The Committee considered Rudys external right through the organisation by the year 2020. business interests and other relationships which could materially interfere with his ability to exercise independent judgement.
The Committee concluded that there were no circumstances which would affect Rudys ability to act in the best interests of the company and that his length of tenure had no detrimental impact on his level of independence.
John Stewart Our approach to diversity Chairman Our approach to diversity on the Board is set out in our Board Diversity Policy and we have continued to seek to ensure that diversity, in the widest sense, remains central to our thinking on the composition of the Board.
DIVERSITY Gender Sector experience Tenure years The Committee only engages executive search rms that are signatories to the executive search rms Voluntary Code of Conduct.
In the 2014 non-executive director searches, the company engaged JCA Group and Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, both of whom are signatories to this Code and have no other connection The Board now comprises: Board members come from The length of tenure of the a variety of backgrounds and non-executives varies: to the company.
JCA have again 27% females have wide sector experience: 12.5% over six years been engaged to support the 73% males 12.5% Digital and Technology 50% between one and three years company through the Chairman 62.5% Financial Services 37.5% between three and six years succession process.
12.5% Customer and Retail The Committee liaises with 12.5% Legal the search rm to ensure that candidate briefs include an appropriate emphasis on diversity of skills and background, independence of approach and thought.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
