Governance Corporate governance report 2015 GOVERNANCE IN FOCUS Corporate Governance Framework Our Corporate Governance Framework is reviewed at least annually by the Board to ensure it remains effective.
This year the framework was subject to anadditional end-to-end review by the Company Secretary.
Read more on page 69 69 Dear Shareholders Succession planning As Chairman of the Board I believe that the highest standards of corporate Our approach to succession planning ensures the governance are critical to the success of our business today.
Good governance desired mix of skills and experience of Board members, underpins the delivery of our strategy to become the best bank for customers and now and in the future.
Just as importantly, talent needs generate sustainable returns for shareholders.
Our Board is committed to ensuring to be recognised and nurtured within executive and good governance is embedded in the thinking and processes of the business.
management levels and across the Group as a whole.
This report sets out our approach to governance in practice, the work of the Board during 2015 and includes reports from the Nomination & Governance Committee, Read more on page 73 the newly established Responsible Business Committee, the Audit Committee and 73 the Board Risk Committee.
Information about the work of the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 82 to 106.
Responsible business I recognise that governance must be dynamic and evolve to meet current and future Our approach to culture and values is led by the Board.
Therefore, in late 2014, I commissioned our newly appointed Company The creation of a board-level Responsible Business Secretary to undertake an end-to-end review of our governance arrangements from Committee during the year underlines the Groups a fresh perspective.
commitment to being a responsible business.
I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
I am pleased to report that further to the actions identified by the Company Secretary in his review Read more on page 81 and in the 2014 Board Effectiveness Review, changes were introduced and actions 81 implemented which have led to improvements in a number of areas.
Details of the 2015 Board Effectiveness Review, together with information about our progress Remuneration against the 2014 review actions are on pages 67 and 68.
The Board ensures that there is a clear link between remuneration and the delivery of the Groups During 2015, succession planning and the composition of the Board and its business strategy.
I am pleased to welcome Deborah McWhinney and Stuart Sinclair as independent Non-Executive Directors in December 2015 and January 2016 respectively.
They bring deep banking and wider financial services Read more in the Directors experience, helping ensure the Board is well placed to address future technology remuneration report on pages 82 to 106 82 and market risks across the full range of business areas in which we operate.
Carolyn Fairbairn, an independent Non-Executive Director, retired from the Board in October 2015 to take up the position of Director-General of the Confederation of British Risk management and Industry in November 2015.
Dyfrig John, an independent Non-Executive Director, viability statement has notified the Board that he wishes to reduce his workload and therefore does not The Board is responsible for the Groups risk intend to seek re-election at the 2016 annual general meeting AGM.
Both Carolyn management and internal controls systems and for and Dyfrig leave with our thanks and best wishes for the future.
The Board is also 2015 has also seen a number of changes to our Committee structure and responsible for assessing the going concern and composition, including the establishment of a Responsible Business Committee, longer term viability of the Company and the Group.
underlining the Groups commitment to being a responsible business.
Rebuilding trust and delivering our vision of being the best bank for customers are integral to Read more on pages 70 and 108 our strategy.
Full details of all Committee changes during the year are onpage 62.
70 Your Board remains focused on how the Group delivers solutions that continue to putthe customer at the heart of everything we do.
There is an ever increasing IT resilience and digital understanding of the criticality of technology in delivering customer service.
transformation Duringthe year, the Board spent considerable time reviewing the delivery of our There is an ever increasing understanding of the investment in IT resilience and digital transformation programmes.
criticality of technology in delivering customer service.
2015, our milestone year, was a year of continued delivery for the Group and included During the year, the Board spent considerable time the reinstatement of dividends.
The decision to resume dividends bears testament to reviewing the delivery of the three-year IT resilience the successful transformation and improved risk profile of the business.
Read more investment and digital transformation programmes.
Read more on page 6 Looking forward to 2016, our corporate governance priorities will be continuing to deliver and oversee the implementation of the Groups strategy, implementing the 65 actions from the 2015 Board Effectiveness Review and the introduction of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR.
This report explains how the Group applies the highest principles of corporate governance, in particular those laid down in the2014 edition of the Financial Reporting Council FRC s UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
Lord Blackwell Chairman The Code can be accessed at www.
uk 60 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 LEADERSHIP KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Board Chairman Lord Blackwell The Group is led by an effective, committed and unitary Board, Leads the Board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Promotes the highest standards of corporate governance Company.
TheBoard comprises a Chairman who was Sets the Boards agenda independent on appointment, independent Non-Executive Builds an effective and complementary Board Directors and Executive Directors.
The names and biographies Leads Board succession planning of current Directors are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Ensures effective communication with shareholders There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Deputy Chairman Anita Frew Company, which is documented in the Groups Corporate Governance Framework.
The Chairman has overall responsibility Ensures continuity of Chairmanship during any change of chairmanship for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness Supports the Chairman in representing the Board and acting as while the Group Chief Executive manages and leads the business.
a spokesperson Deputises for the Chairman The Corporate Governance Framework sets out a number of key Available to the Board for consultation and advice decisions and matters that are reserved for the Boards approval.
Represents the Groups interests to official enquiries and review bodies The Board sets the strategy, oversees its delivery and establishes the culture, values and standards of the Group.
The Board ensures Senior Independent Director Anthony Watson that the Group manages risk effectively, monitors financial Sounding board for the Chairman and Group Chief Executive performance and reporting and ensures that appropriate and Acts as a conduit for the views of other Non-Executive Directors effective succession planning arrangements and remuneration Conducts the Chairmans annual performance appraisal policies are in place.
It provides and encourages entrepreneurial Helps resolve shareholders concerns leadership across the Group within this framework.
Attends meetings with major shareholders and financial analysts to understand issues and concerns Board Committees The Board is supported by its Committees which make Non-Executive Directors recommendations on matters delegated to them under the Challenge constructively Corporate Governance Framework, in particular in relation Help develop and set the Groups strategy to internal control, risk, financial reporting, governance and Actively participate in Board decision making remuneration matters.
This enables the Board to spend a Scrutinise management performance greater proportion of its time on strategic, forward looking Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information agenda items.
Each Committee comprises Non-Executive Review the Groups risk exposures and controls Directors only and is chaired by an experienced Chairman.
Determine the remuneration of Executive Directors TheCommittee Chairmen report to the Board on the activities ofthe Committee at each Board meeting.
A structure chart of The Non-Executive Directors are listed the Board Committees can be found on page 62. on pages 56 and 57.
56 A full schedule of all matters reserved to the Board and Terms of Reference for each of Group Chief Executive Antnio Horta-Osrio the Board Committees can be found at Manages the Group on a day-to-day basis www.
com our-group corporateMakes decisions on matters affecting the operation, governance performance and strategy of the Groups business Provides leadership and direction to senior management Group Chief Executive Coordinates all activities to implement the strategy and for managing the business in accordance with the Groups risk Responsibility for day-to-day management of the business appetite and business plan set by the Board is delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Executive delegates aspects of his own authority, as permitted Executive Directors under the Corporate Governance Framework, to members of the Group Executive Committee GEC.
The names and Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, make and biographies of current GEC members and GEC attendee, the implement decisions in all matters affecting the operations, Group Audit Director, are set out on pages58 and 59.
TheGEC performance and strategy of the Groups business meets weekly to scrutinise the Groups business.
TheGroup Provide specialist knowledge and experience to the Board Audit Director, the Group HR Director until October 2015 and Responsible for the successful leadership and management the Company Secretary attend the weekly GEC meetings to of the Risk and Finance divisions ensure that there is appropriate internal audit oversight, that Design, develop and implement strategic plans employee interests and people strategy matters are Deal with day-to-day operations of the Group considered and that the highest standards of corporate governance are maintained, including the escalation of The Executive Directors are listed matters to the Board and its Committees.
In January 2016, on page 57. a new role of Chief People, Legal and Strategy Officer was 57 created to lead the HR, Legal and Strategy functions.
TheChief People, Legal and Strategy Officer is a member Company Secretary Malcolm Wood of the GEC and reports to the Group Chief Executive.
Advises the Board Ensures good information flows and comprehensive practical Company Secretary support are provided to Directors All Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, have access Maintains the Groups corporate governance framework to the services of the Company Secretary in relation to the Organises Directors induction and training discharge of their duties.
Both the appointment and removal Communicates with shareholders as appropriate and ensures of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
due regard is paid to their interests 61 Governance Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP continued Board and governance structure BOARD NOMINATION & AUDIT REMUNERATION GROUP CHIEF GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE RESPONSIBLE RISK GROUP CHIEF BUSINESS COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEES Reports from the Nomination & Governance Committee, the Audit Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Responsible Business Committee can be found on pages 72 to 81.
Please see pages 118 to 119 for a list of the Group Chief Executive Committees and their purpose.
Subsidiary governance The Boards of the four main companies, Lloyds Banking The Group continues to conduct the majority of its business Group plc, Lloyds Bank plc, HBOS plc and Bank of Scotland through a number of subsidiary entities.
A certification plc, comprise the same Directors, with Board meetings for process, at individual entity level, of compliance with the these companies being held concurrently.
The agenda is split minimum governance standards set out in the Corporate between the companies, allowing decisions to be taken and Governance Framework enhances management of any legal, scrutinised by the appropriate Board.
regulatory and reputational risks associated with the Groups subsidiary entities.
The Board of the Groups insurance subsidiary, Scottish Widows Group Limited, which also sits as the Board of its major The process provides GEC members with additional subsidiaries, is chaired by a Non-Executive member of the oversight of subsidiary entities within their respective Lloyds Banking Group Board and contains a balance of business area, including an escalation process forany independent Non-Executive Directors, Group executives and matters of non-compliance.
In addition, the process Insurance Division executives.
This composition supports its provides continued focus on simplification of the Groups legal and regulatory requirements for independent decision legal entity structure through consideration of the lifecycle making within the overall framework of Group policies and of each entity.
Changes in Board Committees During 2015, the Nomination & Governance Committee continued to keep under review succession planning and the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
To ensure the Groups corporate governance is consistent with best practice, in addition to the annual Board Effectiveness Review, a Corporate Governance Review was carried out by the Company Secretary during the year.
The following changes to Committees were made: The Group established a Responsible Business Committee RBC of the Board.
The RBC is chaired by Sara Weller CBE and includes as members Lord Blackwell, Chairman, and Anita Frew, Deputy Chairman.
The RBC oversees the measurement and communication of the Groups customer-centric culture and values, as well as the development of the Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
The creation of a board-level RBC underlines the Groups commitment to being a responsible business.
A report on the activities of the RBC can be found on page 81: Anita Frew, Deputy Chairman, succeeded Anthony Watson, Senior Independent Director, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, effective 1 October 2015.
The change reflected best governance on the separation of the role of the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Watson served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee since May 2010 and remains a member of the Remuneration Committee: Alan Dickinson, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, was appointed as a member of the Remuneration and Nomination & Governance Committees, effective 17July 2015: Carolyn Fairbairn, an independent Non-Executive Director, retired from the Board and as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 31 October 2015: Deborah McWhinney joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director on 1 December 2015 and was appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committees: and Stuart Sinclair joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director on 4 January 2016 and was appointed as a member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Dyfrig John, an independent Non-Executive Director, has notified the Board that he does not intend to seek re-election at the 2016AGM.
Mr John is currently a member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
62 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Secretarys end-to-end Corporate Governance Review.
The Board in 2015 Accordingly a number of enhancements were made to the The Directors who served during the year and their attendance process during the year.
A key recommendation was the at Board meetings is set out in the table below.
The attendance introduction of quarterly reviews of topics for Board of Directors at Committee meetings is displayed within the presentations and deep dives as described on pages 68 and 69. individual Committee reports found on pages 72 to 81 and Draft Board papers are reviewed at the appropriate Group Chief forthe Remuneration Committee on page 91.
Whilst all Executive Committee meeting held prior to the Board meeting, Non-Executive Directors are, where appropriate, invited to along with the draft Board agenda, and there is time allocated andregularly attend other Committee meetings, only their at each GEC meeting to consider whether any matters require attendance at Committees of which they are members escalation to the Board.
The Group Chief Executive also held isrecorded.
separate Board paper review meetings to review individual A number of other Board Committee meetings were held papers in more detail or those not considered at one of the during the year, including meetings in relation to the disposal meetings referred to above.
Thesemeetings were held with of the Groups remaining interest in TSB Bank, the regulatory the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Company par call of Enhanced Capital Notes, stress testing results and Secretary and authors of the main papers, as required.
Prior to each Board meeting the Chairman, Company 1 Board meetings Secretary and the Chief of Staff, who assists the Group Chief Eligible to Executive and runs his executive office, review the agenda, the attend Attended arrangements for the Board meeting and the time allocation Directors who served during 2015 for individual agenda items.
A similar comprehensive process Antnio Horta-Osrio 10 10 is in place for each of the Board Committees.
Lord Blackwell 10 10 How Board meetings are run Juan Colombs 10 10 The Chairman ensures Board meetings are structured to George Culmer 10 10 facilitate open discussion, debate and challenge.
Through his Alan Dickinson 10 10 opening remarks, the Chairman sets the focus of each meeting.
Anita Frew 10 10 In the rare event of a Director being unable to attend a 2 Simon Henry 10 9 meeting, the Chairman discusses the matters proposed with the Director concerned, seeking their support and or feedback Dyfrig John 10 10 accordingly.
The Chairman subsequently represents those Nick Luff 10 10 views at the meeting.
3 Deborah McWhinney 1 1 Directors are sent papers for the Board meeting up to seven Nick Prettejohn 10 10 days in advance of the meeting in order that they may have the time to consider the proposals put forward and seek Anthony Watson 10 10 clarification or further information as required.
The Board Sara Weller 10 10 makes full use of technology such as video conferencing, Former directors who served during2015 teleconferencing, a Board portal and tablets in its meeting 4 Carolyn Fairbairn 8 8 arrangements.
This leads to greater flexibility, security and efficiency in Board paper distribution.
1 T he number of Board meetings includes two ad hoc meetings, one held in October in relation to the Groups preparation for the SM&CR and one in Effective use of the Boards time December to provide updates on the Court of Appeal decision on the regulatory par call of Enhanced Capital Notes and the 2015 PRA stress testresult.
To ensure that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss 2 M r Henry was unable to join the July Board meeting due to the third quarter matters of a material nature, Board dinners and or breakfast 2015 results announcement for Royal Dutch Shell plc, of which he is Chief Financial Officer, being presented on the sameday.
meetings are held prior to each scheduled Board meeting.
This 3 J oined the Board on 1 December 2015. allows the Directors greater time to discuss their views ahead of 4 R etired on 31 October 2015. the meeting.
Some of these pre meetings are for Non-Executive Directors only, some also include the Group Chief Executive Board tenure as at 31 December 2015 and others the full Board.
At least once a year, a meeting is held without the Chairman in attendance.
Additionally, deep dive 0 2 years 3 sessions into specific topics are delivered either at the end 4 of Board meetings or at additional sessions held between 2 4 years Boardmeetings.
6 4 6 years 2 Access to advice 6 8 years The Group provides access, at its expense, to the services of 1 independent professional advisers in order to assist Directors in their role.
Board Committees are also provided with Setting the Board agenda sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
and Board papercontent Dividends There is a comprehensive and continuous process in place for ensuring the Board has the right information at the right time The Board met on several occasions during 2015 to and in the right format to enable the Directors to make the consider the appropriate level of dividend payment right decisions.
The Chairman sets the Board agenda, assisted and to set the dividend policy.
The Groups dividend policy by the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
aims to provide a progressive and sustainable dividend Ayearly planner is prepared by the Company Secretary to whilst distributing surplus capital when appropriate to do map out the flow of key items of business to the Board and so.
In reaching the decision to pay a dividend, the Board to ensure that sufficient time is being set aside for strategic has to take into account a number of legal, financial and discussions and material issues.
Further information on capital management and the Groups dividend policy can be The process of escalating issues and agenda setting was a key found on pages 161 and 162. focus of the 2014 Board Effectiveness Review and the Company 63 Governance Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP continued BOARD FOCUS IN 2015 FINANCIAL STRATEGY AND CUSTOMER FOCUS REGULATORY Review of progress in implementing Budget for 2015 and Group Ring-fencing and resolution operating plan the Groups 2015-17 strategy SM&CR updates Continuing development and Draft results and presentation Banking Standards Board updates to analysts monitoring of key metrics of Regulatory changes customer dashboard Approval of dividends Conduct, culture and values Approval of large transactions IT resilience and digital Disposal of TSB Bank transformation REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS Group performance report from the Group Chief Executive Report on financial performance, including budgets, forecasts and capital position from the Chief Financial officer Risk report from the Chief Risk officer Chairmans activities report Reports from Committee Chairmen GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS RISK MANAGEMENT Board effectiveness and Investor Relations updates Approval of Group risk appetit e and Risk Management Framework Chairmans performance reviews AGM brieng Board and Committee structure, Review of internal control systems Dividend reinvestment size and composition Investigations into PPI and programme Responsible Business review and LIBOR issues Proposed public offering creation of the Responsible Business of shares in the Company Investigations into packaged Committee bank account complaints by HM Treasury Review of Corporate Governance Review and approval o f PRA Framework stress testing results Company Secretarys Corporate CMA investigation into Governance Review retail banking BOARD MEETINGS AND ACTIVITY IN 2015 BD BD D BD D B B BD B BD B BD Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 2014 Q1 results Strategy Half year Q3 results offsite results full year meeting results and and Board site dividend dividend AGM KEY visit to Bristol and Board meeting B Group Board meeting and deep dive operating BD plan Deep dive D The deep dive sessions, strategy offsite meeting and site visit to Bristol are described on page 65.
64 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Board in action Deep dives The Non-Executive Directors see attendance at Board and During the year the Board held eight deep dives which Committee meetings as only one part of their role.
TheNonprovided the opportunity for presentations from senior Executive Directors regularly meet with senior management management and an in-depth review of key areas of and spend time increasing their understanding of the business focus including: through formal briefing sessions or more informal events such as breakfast briefings, dinners and sitevisits.
Customer experience Group Digital two updates The Non-Executive Directors also receive regular updates from the Group Chief Executives office including a weekly IT transformation update and outlook email which gives context to current issues.
In-depth and Group Operations, including IT strategy background materials are regularly provided via a reading Retail performance and products room on the Board portal.
Commercial Banking In addition to the annual schedule of Board and Committee The changing UK payments landscape meetings, the Board held eight deep dives, a two-day strategy offsite meeting and a strategy meeting at the Groups Strategy offsite Bristol site reviewing the operating plan.
Further details are given opposite.
During the year the Board spent two days offsite focusing on: The Board meets annually prior to the AGM in Scotland followed by a joint discussion with the Board of Scottish Culture and colleague engagement Widows Group Limited allowing in-depth focus on Group strategy implementation insurance matters.
Retail strategy The agenda was structured to allow plenty of opportunity Non-Executive Directors office for discussion and concluded with a group discussion on The Non-Executive Directors frequently visit the Groups strategy, culture and rebuilding trust.
offices on Group business and to meet with senior management outside of Board and Committee meetings.
Site visit to Bristol Tosupport the Non-Executive Directors in fulfilling their role, the Group provides an office, with administrative support, In November 2015, the Board held an offsite meeting in and a meeting room for the Non-Executive Directors use.
Bristol, attended by GEC members, at which it reviewed theGroup operating plan in detail.
The November Committee meetings also took place at the Groups Bristol Chairmans office offices.
During the visit, Board and GEC members took the The Chairman maintains an office with support to help manage opportunity to meet colleagues based in Bristol and the his programme of activities, obtain briefings and deal with South West over dinner and at an informal breakfast hosted external contacts.
by the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Some Board members also visited the Bristol City Centre branch to meet Chairmans activities the local director and branch based colleagues.
The Chairman undertakes an extensive engagement programme each year representing the Group at industry Chairmans Town Hall sessions events, acting as a spokesperson for the Group and meeting In October 2015, as part of his engagement programme, with clients, regulators, investors, the media, our Foundations theChairman visited two of the Groups ITsites near and their beneficiaries.
The programme includes visits to Manchester, where he was joined by 275colleagues.
regional offices, branches, IT and operations centres, where the Chairman meets local management and colleagues The Chairman spoke to colleagues on the progress the through meetings, floor walks, team talks and Town Hall Group is making with the next stage of its strategy to sessions.
The Town Hall sessions are an opportunity for become the best bank for customers, how it had colleagues to hear from the Chairman on the Groups strengthened its balance sheet, and the importance of performance and strategic direction, and importantly, continuing to restore the trust and confidence of customers to ask questions.
These events are very popular and are and other key stakeholders.
The visit included a question always well attended.
and answer session, where colleagues asked questions on such topics as how the Group is remediating risk, the impact of new challenger banks and emerging new technologies on the landscape.
Board oversight: IT resilience and digital transformation The Board remains focused on how the Group delivers solutions that continue to put the customer at the heart of everything it does.
The Groups multi-channel service reflects customers changing preferences in how they choose to do business with the Group, providing seamless access through a secure and resilient digital infrastructure.
The Board spends considerable time reviewing the delivery of the three-year IT resilience investment and digital transformation programmes.
IT resilience and cyber security are regularly monitored through the risk dashboard in the reports from the Group Chief Executive and Group Risk Officer and through the work of the Board Risk Committee of which all Non-Executive Directors are members.
Additionally, the Board received a detailed progress update at its strategy offsite meeting in November and presentations from senior management on the delivery of the programmes at deep dive sessions held during the year.
Also, the Boards approach to succession planning, led by the Chairman, helps ensure the Board is well placed to address future technology and market risks across the full range of business areas in which the Group operates.
Read more on succession planning and Board appointments on page 73.
Information on the progress being made on the delivery of digital capability can be found in the strategic report and on IT resilience and cyber security in the report from the Board Risk Committee.
65 Governance Corporate governance report continued percentage of women employed in senior management roles EFFECTIVENESS to 40 per cent by 2020, is provided in the Responsible Business Board size and composition section of our website at www.
com our-group responsible-business The Board should be of sufficient size to reflect a broad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing all Directors to Board induction participate effectively in meetings.
The Board currently comprises three Executive Directors, ten independent The Group appreciates the importance of a well-focused induction Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who was plan to help a new Director get up to speed as quickly as possible independent on appointment.
The size of the Board is within and enable them to contribute fully to Board deliberations.
the optimal range set by the Nomination & Governance The Chairman personally ensures that on appointment each Committee.
Further details on the composition of the Board Director receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
The emphasis and independence of the Non-Executive Directors are is on ensuring the induction brings the business and its issues alive provided in the Nomination & Governance Committee report.
for the new Director, taking account of the specific role they have been appointed to fulfil and the skills experience of the Director Board changes to date.
In June 2015, Carolyn Fairbairn, an independent The plan is informed by the recruitment and resourcing process, Non-Executive Director, informed the Board of her intention with input from other key internal stakeholders and from the to retire from the Board on 31 October 2015 to take up the Directors themselves.
At its core is a comprehensive programme of position of Director-General of the Confederation of British one-to-one briefings with key senior executives across the Group.
Ms Fairbairn had been a member Committee Chairmen receive additional dedicated training from of the Board since June 2012.
Dyfrig John, an independent relevant business executives to support them in their role and the Non-Executive Director, has notified the Board that he wishes Chairman of Scottish Widows Group Limited receives further to reduce his workload and therefore does not intend to seek briefings on the insurance business.
Mr John has been a member of Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to identify any further the Board since January 2014. information needs and to request any additional meetings or Deborah McWhinney and Stuart Sinclair joined the Board as visits to help familiarise themselves with the business.
In practice, independent Non-Executive Directors on 1 December 2015 and some of the areas covered by the induction plan are likely to have 4 January 2016 respectively.
The Board is not looking actively to been covered as part of the Directors own research prior to appoint any further Non-Executive Directors at this stage.
However, the plan aims to provide a more More about the appointment of new Directors and the in-depth review of the issues and, facilitated by the Company Groups approach to succession planning can be found in the Secretary, is delivered as soon as possible after the date of Nomination & Governance Committee report.
Directors who take on or change roles during the Board Committee memberships are set out on page 62. year attend induction meetings in respect of those new roles.
Induction plan Deborah McWhinney Directors biographies can be found at and StuartSinclair www.
com our-group directors Core programme Diversity policy Strategic and corporate induction Governance and Director responsibilities The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership reflects diversity in the broadest sense.
The Responsibilities of an FCA approved person combination of personalities and experience on the Board Senior Managers and Certification Regime provides a comprehensive range of perspectives and Detailed risk induction programme challenge and improves the quality of decision making.
Detailed briefings on each of the Groups business divisions Information on Board diversity by gender and experience Opportunity to meet with major shareholders as requested can be found on page 56.
The Board has adopted, and was close to achieving, the One-to-one briefings recommendations of Lord Davies of 25 per cent female Chairman representation by 2015.
As at 31December 2015, female Company Secretary representation on the Board remained at 23 per cent based on three female directors and 10 male directors.
During Executive Directors the period between the appointment of Stuart Sinclair on GEC members 4 January 2016 and Dyfrig Johns retirement at the 2016 Group Audit Director AGM, female representation on the Board will drop to Senior executives from across the Group 21.4 per cent, when there will be male directors with the number of women on the Board remaining at three.
Bespoke programme A table providing details of the number of women employed The Chairman personally ensures a new Director receives at various levels of seniority within the Group as at a tailored induction.
In the case of Ms McWhinney, she 31December 2014 and 2015 can be found on page 26. requested that the risk induction include an overview of the UK regulatory landscape, reflective of her career Developing diversity having been spent in the United States to date.
The Board recognises that senior management is a group Branch and site visits form part of the induction and in the from which future directors may be selected.
To promote case of MrSinclair, he requested a visit to the Groups diversity the Group has a variety of colleague networks which insurance business, Scottish Widows.
include: Breakthrough, a womens network: the Group Ethnic Minority network: the Access network which aims to provide Both MsMcWhinney and MrSinclair also received specific support for colleagues with disabilities: and Rainbow, an briefings on the Committees on which they will serve.
inclusive Groupwide network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and Briefing and reading materials transgender colleagues.
More information on the Groups diversity programmes, Briefing and reading materials are made available including details of the Groups commitment to raise the on the Boardportal.
66 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Professional development and training Corporate Governance Review Continuing professional development is an important aspect In late 2014 the Chairman commissioned the newly appointed of every professionals working life, including Directors.
Skills Company Secretary to undertake an end-to-end review of the and knowledge need to be kept up-to-date to ensure the Groups governance arrangements from a fresh perspective.
efficiency of the Board as a whole and the ability of every The Company Secretarys review was informed by, amongst single Director to contribute to the highest standards.
other matters, the 2014 annual review of Board Effectiveness as well as the work which is being carried out in the Group in The Chairman leads the learning and development of Directors preparation for the SM&CR.
The Company Secretary completed and the Board generally and regularly reviews and agrees with his review in 2015 and his findings and the Boards response are each Director their training and development needs.
The Company provides ample opportunities, support and resources for learning.
A comprehensive programme, under 2014 evaluation of the Boards performance the leadership of the Chairman, is in place throughout the The 2014 evaluation was conducted internally between year and comprises both formal and informal training and December 2014 and January 2015 by the Company Secretary, information sessions.
Deep dive sessions into specific topics and was overseen by the Nomination & Governance play an important role and are delivered either at the end of Committee.
Following the review, a number of changes Board meetings or at additional sessions held between Board were introduced and actions implemented which led to meetings.
The deep dive sessions delivered in 2015 are improvements in a number of areas including the timeliness described on page 65. and content of papers and the process for escalation of issues Site visits and conversations at Board dinners are also to the Board and its Committees.
These enhancements have recognised as effective ways of learning, since they give been reflected in improved scores from the 2015 evaluation.
Directors an opportunity to consider business areas and Asummary of the Boards progress against the actions arising experiences outside their direct areas of expertise.
Site visits from the 2014 effectiveness review are set out on page 68. in particular provide shop floor experiences and reconnect Directors and senior management alike with the business 2015 evaluation of the Boards performance and with customer service as it is performed throughout the In accordance with the three year cycle, the 2015 evaluation branches.
This provides insights into what customers want was facilitated externally by JCA Group between October and need from the Group.
The review was commissioned by the The Board also receives regular refresher training and Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary and overseen information sessions throughout the year to address current by the Nomination & Governance Committee.
JCA Group business or emerging issues such as the SM&CR, ring-fencing has provided certain Board and senior management level and resolution and stress testing.
recruitment services to the Group from time to time but not in relation to the searches for the Group Board Non-Executive Management meetings and one-to-one meetings with key Directors during 2015.
Otherwise, JCA Group has no other executives from across the Groups operations complete the connection with the Group.
The Company Secretary maintains a training and development log for eachDirector.
The 2015 review considered broadly the same areas as the 2014 review for comparability including: strategy: risk and control: planning and performance: Board composition and Development and training programme size: culture and dynamics: balance of skills and experience: at a glance diversity: relationships between management and During the year a comprehensive programme, under the independent directors: governance: the Boards calendar leadership of the Chairman, was in place comprising both and agenda: the quality and timeliness of information: and formal and informal training and information sessions.
support for Directors and Committees.
These included: Deep dive sessions detailed on page 65 2015 review process Site visits, Board dinners and breakfast meetings Meeting between JCA Group and the Senior Training and information sessions on the SM&CR, Independent Director ring-fencing and resolution and stress testing Questionnaire completed by each Director broadly in Management meetings and one-to-one meetings with the same format as for the 2014 review for comparability key executives from across the Groups operations Individual meetings between each Director and a Briefing material on the Board portal representative from JCA Group Presentation by JCA Group of the highlights to the Nomination & Governance Committee in November 2015 Board effectiveness Presentation by JCA Group to the Board in January 2016 The Chairman of the Board leads the rolling review of the Boards effectiveness and that of its Committees and individual Directors with the support of the Nomination & Governance Committee, which he also chairs.
The annual At the time of the 2016 AGM, Anthony Watson will have been on the Board for more than seven years.
Therefore, in evaluation, which is facilitated externally at least once every three years, provides an opportunity to consider ways of compliance with the Code, his review was particularly rigorous.
identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and Anthony Watson, the Senior Independent Director, carried highlighting areas for further development.
out the evaluation of the Chairmans performance using a questionnaire and individual meetings with Directors other than the Chairman.
Deborah McWhinney and Stuart Sinclair, who joined the Board in December 2015 and January 2016 respectively, did not participate in the review but attended the presentation by JCA Group to the Board in January 2016.
67 Governance Corporate governance report continued Officer, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors and EFFECTIVENESS continued had performed his role to a high standard.
The Board had high Outcome of 2015 Board regard for the Chief Executive Officer and the transformation of the business he had led.
The increasing depth of debate at Effectiveness Review meetings was welcomed but the review identified a number of The outcome of the effectiveness review has been discussed actions that will continue to maintain and improve the Boards by the Board and each of the Committees.
The outcome of the effectiveness and ensure the effort and time given by the evaluation of the Chairmans performance was discussed by Board translates into creating real impact for the business, the Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
The review recommendations are summarised below.
The reviews concluded that the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and each of the Directors If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed continues to be effective.
All Directors demonstrated action which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board commitment to their roles.
Overall, the Board was considered minutes.
Also on resignation, Non-Executive Directors are collegiate, inclusive and hard-working, with shared values of encouraged to provide a written statement of any concerns to integrity and respect.
The Chairman was widely respected and the Chairman, for circulation to the Board.
No such concerns had strong working relationships with the Chief Executive were raised in 2015 and up to the date of this report.
2014 Board Effectiveness Review internal Recommendations Actions taken progress The timeliness and content of Board and New Board template and guidelines rolled out Committee papers Further targeted training for authors to ensure papers are delivered in a timely manner, present a balanced view of all issues and are concise Improved 2015 effectiveness review scores The process for escalation of matters to the Board Corporate Governance Framework amended to impose clear responsibility on GEC members to escalate matters and its Committees Time allocated at each GEC meeting to consider whether any matters require escalation Briefings to other senior executives on the obligation to escalate matters Quarterly reviews of topics for Board presentations and deep dives introduced involving the Chairman, the Company Secretary, the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief Executive or his Chief of Staff, who assists the Group Chief Executive and runs his executive office.
The quarterly reviews are also attended by the Group Audit Director and the Group Director, Conduct, Compliance and Operational Risk Improved 2015 effectiveness review scores The creation of a new Board Committee to provide Board-level Responsible Business Committee established oversight of the strategy and plans for delivering the Groups aspirations to be a leader in responsible business, as part of the Groups objective of helping Britain prosper Recommendations from the 2015 Board Effectiveness Review external Strategy Continue to focus on strategy, with particular attention to the longer term horizon and the impact of the changing technology and competitive landscape Succession planning Maintain a proactive approach to succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for senior management Board information Continue the progress made in 2015 in ensuring that information provided to the Board and its Committees is clear, concise, relevant and focused Review and continue to evolve metrics used to assess business performance to ensure that they provide an appropriate level of detail and insight for the Board 68 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Service contracts and letters Corporate Governance Review ofappointment In November 2014, the Chairman commissioned the The Executive Directors have service contracts which may Company Secretary to examine the corporate be terminated on 12 months notice by the Company or six governance of the Group.
months notice by the Executive Director.
The Chairman has The purpose of the review was to provide the Board with a letter of appointment which may be terminated on six an assessment of the Groups corporate governance months notice by either the Company or the Chairman.
The together with recommendations on steps to improve it.
Non-Executive Directors all have letters of appointment and The Nomination & Governance Committee considered are appointed for an initial term of three years after which their the review in April 2015 prior to the Chairman and the appointment may continue subject to an annual review.
Company Secretary reporting on the conclusions to Non-Executive Directors may have their appointment theBoard.
terminated, in accordance with statute and the articles of association, at any time with immediate effect and without The review focused on the operation of the Board and compensation.
All Directors are subject to annual re-election its Committees and in particular: agenda setting and the by shareholders.
process of escalating issues: the timing and content of information received by the Board and its Committees: The terms and conditions of appointment of the Chairman, how the Board and the Committees used their time: and Non-Executive Directors and Executive Director are available Secretariat support.
for inspection at the registered office address.
The review found the governance of the Group by Election and re-election the Board and its Committees to be generally effective and the Secretariat and the Insurance Secretariat to be All Directors appointed to the Board since the AGM in 2015 will generally effective in supporting the governance stand for election at the 2016 AGM.
All other Directors will of the Group.
Recommendations included: retire and those wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Dyfrig John, an independent quarterly reviews of topics for Board presentations and Non-Executive Director, has notified the Board that he does deep dives involving the Chairman, the Company not intend to seek re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Biographies of Secretary, the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief current Directors are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Details of the Executive or his Chief of Staff, who assists the Group Directors seeking election or re-election at the AGM are set Chief Executive and runs his executive office.
The out in the Notice ofMeeting.
quarterly reviews are also attended by the Group Audit Director and the Group Director, Conduct, Compliance Directors and Officers liability insurance and Operational Risk: Throughout 2015 the Group had appropriate insurance cover Board and Committee papers to be standardised in place to protect Directors, including the former Director using the adoption of a new Board template: who retired during the year, from liabilities that may arise the Board calendar should avoid more than two Board against them personally in connection with the performance Committee meetings taking place on the same day: of their role.
As well as insurance cover, the Group agrees to Chairmen should maintain an appropriate balance between indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted presentations and time allocated to discussion: and by law.
Further information on the Groups indemnity Secretariat should recruit additional senior capability in arrangements is provided on page 107.
No Director or former order to take a more pro-active role in maintaining high Director sought to recover costs or expenses under their governance standards throughout the Group.
Recruitment for the Secretariat is ongoing.
All other Time commitments recommendations from the governance review have been implemented in full.
Non-Executive Directors are required to devote such time as is necessary for the effective discharge of their duties.
The Senior Managers and Certification estimated minimum time commitment set out in the terms of appointment is 35-40 days per annum including attendance Regime SM&CR at Committee meetings.
For Committee Chairmen and the The Company Secretary carried out a further review Senior Independent Director, this increases to a minimum of of the Corporate Governance Framework in preparation 45to 50 days.
The time devoted on the Groups business by for the introduction in March 2016 of the SM&CR and, the Non-Executive Directors is in reality considerably more as relevant to the Scottish Widows Group, the Senior than the minimum requirements.
As described elsewhere, the Insurance Managers Regime SIMR.
Non-Executive Directors see preparation for and attendance The review found that the framework was generally at Board and Committee meetings as only one part of their aligned with the requirements of the SM&CR and, as role.
Outside of formal meetings, they meet regularly with relevant to the Scottish Widows Group, the SIMR, but a senior management and attend briefing sessions and more number of changes were recommended.
amendments to the statements of responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors may be expected to relinquish Directors and members of the GEC and minor other appointments to ensure that they can meet the time amendments to the terms of reference of a number commitments of their role.
Fees paid to Non-Executive of Board and Group Chief Executive Committees.
Directors reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of The Nomination & Governance Committee considered the role.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive share options the review in January 2016 prior to a report on the or other performance related pay.
Executive Directors are conclusions to the Board.
The Board reviewed and restricted to taking no more than one non-executive director approved the proposed changes, which were part of role in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a a wider range of initiatives undertaken to prepare the company.
The Chairman is required to commit to this being his Group for the introduction of SM&CR and SIMR.
primary role, limiting his other commitments to ensure he can spend as much time as the role requires.
The Chairman will step down as Chairman of Interserve plc on 29 February 2016.
The Chairmans biography can be found on page56.
69 Governance Corporate governance report continued and the Board to ensure that they are satisfied with the overall EFFECTIVENESS continued risk profile, risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The Conflicts of interest report and dashboard provide a monthly view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and management actions, together All Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries must with performance against risk appetite and an assessment of avoidany situation which might give rise to a conflict between emerging risks which could affect the Groups performance over their personal interests and those of the Group.
Prior to the life of the operating plan.
Information regarding the main appointment, potential conflicts of interest are disclosed and features of the risk management and internal control systems assessed to ensure that there are no matters which would in relation to the financial reporting process is provided within prevent that person from taking on the role.
the risk management report on pages 112 to 169.
Directors are responsible for notifying the Chairman and Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of actual Control effectiveness review orpotential conflict situations.
In addition, conflicts are An annual control effectiveness review CER is undertaken to monitored as follows: evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups control framework the Directors are required to complete a conflicts with regard to its material risks, and to ensure management questionnaire on appointment and annually thereafter: actions are in place to address key gaps or weaknesses in the changes to the commitments of all Directors are reported control framework.
Business areas and head office functions tothe Nomination & Governance Committee and the assess the controls in place to address all material risk Board:and exposures across all risk types.
The CER considers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance a register of potential conflicts and time commitments is controls.
Senior management complete an attestation regularly reviewed and authorised by the Board to ensure to confirm the CER findings which are reviewed and theauthorisation status remains appropriate.
independently challenged by the Risk Division and If any potential conflict arises, the articles of association permit Group Audit and reported to the Board.
Action plans the Board to authorise the conflict, subject to such conditions are implemented to address any control deficiencies.
or limitations as the Board may determine.
Stuart Sinclair is a Non-Executive Director of Provident Reviews by the Board Financial Plc, a supplier of personal credit products to the The effectiveness of the risk management and internal control non-standard lending market, and Senior Independent systems is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Director at both QBE Insurance Europe Limited, a general Committee, including an annual review.
The Audit Committee insurance and reinsurance company, and Swinton Group also receives reports of reviews undertaken by the Risk Limited, an insurance broker for home and motor insurance.
The Audit Committee receives The Board has recognised that potential conflicts may arise reports from the Companys auditor,  in relation to his position at QBE Insurance and in relation to LLP which include details of significant internal control matters Swinton Group.
The Board has authorised the potential that they have identified, and has a discussion with the auditor conflicts and requires Mr Sinclair to recuse himself from at least once a year without executives present, to ensure that discussions, should the need arise.
there are no unresolved issues of concern.
Prior to Carolyn Fairbairns retirement from the Board, she was The Groups risk management and internal control systems are also a Non-Executive Director of the Competition and Markets regularly reviewed by the Board and are consistent with the Authority CMA.
During the period she served on the Board, Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related she recused herself from all discussions at the CMA on their Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial investigation into banking competition.
Reporting Council and compliant with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV.
They have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the INTERNAL CONTROL approval of the annual report.
The Group has determined Board responsibility material compliance with BCBS 239 risk data aggregation The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and risk reporting requirements and continues to actively manage enhancements.
and internal control systems, which are designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with Conclusion applicable laws and regulations.
The Directors and senior The Group has enhanced the control environment during the management are committed to maintaining a robust control last year in a number of key respects, such as IT, cyber security framework as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk and Anti-Money Laundering AML controls.
This is reflected in management.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities the 2015 CER assessment which provides reasonable assurance in relation to the Groups risk management and internal control that the Groups controls are effective or that where control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
weaknesses are identified, they are subject to management oversight and action plans.
This conclusion is consistent with In establishing and reviewing during the year the systems of risk management and internal control, the Directors confirm that the delivery of previously initiated action plans and an improvement in the operational risk profile of the Group.
they carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business The Audit Committee, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, concluded that the Groups risk management model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, the likelihood of a risk event occurring and the costs of control.
The process and internal control systems were effective and adequate having regard to the Groups risk profile and strategy, and for identification, evaluation and management of the principal risks faced by the Group is integrated into the Groups overall recommended that the Board approve them accordingly.
The Group is forward-looking in its risk identification processes to ensure emerging risks are REMUNERATION identified.
The risk identification, evaluation and management The statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration process also identifies whether the controls in place result in committee, the Directors Remuneration policy and the an acceptable level of risk.
At Group level, a consolidated risk Directors Remuneration Implementation Report are set report and risk appetite dashboard are reviewed and regularly out on pages 82 to 106. debated by the Group Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee 70 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 At the Groups AGM in May 2015, shareholders gave SHAREHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS an advisory for vote of 97.68percent in favour of the The Board recognises and values greatly the need to deliver implementation during 2014 of the Directors Remuneration a programme of engagement that offers all shareholders Policy.
Shareholders will be asked to provide an advisory vote the opportunity to receive company communication and to on the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report for the share their views with the Board.
Accordingly, the Group financial year ended 31 December 2015 at the AGM in 2016, has dedicated teams with responsibility for engaging with and in 2017 when shareholders will also be asked to consider institutional investors, retail shareholders and the market using and approve a new Directors Remuneration Policy.
This includes investor meetings in the UK and overseas, analyst briefings, Relationships with retail shareholders market announcements and the AGM.
The Groups website is The Company Secretary has a team dedicated to engage a key tool in ensuring shareholders can access communications with retail shareholders who, with support from our registrar and documents as soon as they arepublished, including a live Equiniti Limited, deliver the Groups shareholder service webcast of the AGM.
Recordings of webcasts and other strategy, including the AGM.
analyst presentations are also available.
Shareholders are engaged using a rolling programme of communications.
By way of example, when the Group Key facts at 31 December 2015 resumed dividend payments in February 2015 a mailing was The Group has 2.6 million shareholders, the largest sent to shareholders informing them of the choices available number of ordinary shareholders in the UK.
Retail based on existing payment instructions held.
shareholders represent approximately 99.1 per cent of The Groups retail shareholders are well informed and the total number of shareholders.
knowledgeable and this is demonstrated through much Institutional shareholders hold approximately ofthecorrespondence received.
Enquiries from retail 95.6percent of the issued share capital on the share shareholders range from discussing technical accounting register including approximately 7 per cent held on behalf matters and strategy implementation, through to their of retail shareholders in private nominee arrangements.
Group Secretariat provides feedback to the Board and Relationships with institutional investors appropriate committees to ensure the views of retail shareholders are received and considered.
Investor Relations has primary responsibility for managing and developing the Groups external relationships with existing The Group is committed to helping Britain prosper and since and potential institutional equity investors.
Supported by the 2012 Group Secretariat has engaged with ProSearch, a tracing Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, other members agency, to find lost shareholders and reunite them with of the senior management team and Non-Executive Board unclaimed dividends.
To date, shareholders have been members where appropriate, they achieve this through a reunited with over 32 million, with a further 900,000 being combination of briefings to analysts and institutional investors donated to charitable causes.
both at results briefings and throughout the year, as well as individual discussions with institutional investors.
The Annual General Meeting Investor Relations ensures that the Groups Board and The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to engage Executive Committee are informed of key messages, market directly with the Board.
All Board members attended the developments and the perception of the Group in the market.
The AGM in 2016 will again be held in The primary responsibility for managing and developing Scotland in accordance with the articles of association.
At the relationships with existing and potential debt investors rests AGM in 2015, over 70 per cent of total voting rights were voted with the Group Corporate Treasury team with support from by shareholders.
The lowest vote in favour across all Investor Relations.
All resolutions are voted on by way of a poll.
During 2015, Investor Relations held over 1,250 meetings with and gave presentations to institutional debt and equity investors.
Discussions included the Groups financial and STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE operational performance, the dividend payment and associated policy, the Groups capital management policy UK Corporate Governance Code and progress in the Groups strategy to be the best bank The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Code applied for customers.
The Group confirms thatit applied the main principles and complied with all Investor Relations is also responsible for delivering the Groups financial results which includes presentations to the market provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The Code is publicly available at www.
uk and publication of formal results and announcements, as well as hosting regular national and international roadshows and meetings for current and potential institutional equity and The British Bankers Association Code debt investors in the Company.
forFinancial Reporting Disclosure The Group has adopted the British Bankers Associations Governance and executive remuneration Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2015 Lord Blackwell Chairman, Anthony Watson Senior financial statements have been prepared in compliance Independent Director and Anita Frew Deputy Chairman and with its principles.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, have participated in numerous meetings and discussions with investors and other stakeholders, including the Groups regulators, regarding governance and the strategic direction of the Group.
They also engaged extensively with proxy advisors, regulators and larger shareholders on issues relating specifically to executive remuneration.
71 Governance Corporate governance report continued Committee meetings NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE Eligible to attend Attended COMMITTEE REPORT Committee Chairman Lord Blackwell 7 7 Committee members who served during 2015 1 Alan Dickinson 3 3 Anita Frew 7 7 Nick Luff 7 7 2 Deborah McWhinney 3 Anthony Watson 7 6 1 Joined the Committee on 17 July 2015.
2 Joined the Committee on 1 December 2015.
No Committee meeting was held in December.
3 Good succession planning Mr Watson was unable to attend the July Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
contributes to the delivery of the Groups strategy by ensuring the desired mix of skills and experience of Board members now and in thefuture.
Dear Shareholders During 2015, succession planning and the composition of Our Corporate Governance Framework is reviewed at least annually the Board and its Committees remained a key focus for the by the Board to ensure it remains effective.
The review is overseen Nomination & Governance Committee.
On the Committees by the Committee and this year the framework was subject to an recommendation, the Board appointed Deborah McWhinney additional end-to-end review by the Company Secretary and a and Stuart Sinclair as independent Non-Executive Directors in further review in preparation for the Senior Managers and December 2015 and January 2016 respectively.
Full details of the Company Secretarys findings and the Boards response are set out on page69.
Details of all Board changes during the year are set out on page66.
More about the appointment of Deborah and Stuart The Committee considered progress against the actions from and the Groups approach to succession planning can be the 2014 Board Effectiveness Review and I am pleased to report found on the next page.
that the changes introduced and actions arising from the review have led to concrete improvements in a number of areas.
Details A number of changes to our Committee structure and of our progress against the 2014 review actions and the findings composition were recommended to the Board, including and recommendations from the externally facilitated 2015 the establishment of a Responsible Business Committee, review can be found on page 68.
I and the other Board members underlining the Groups commitment to being a responsible find the annual review process valuable and insightful.
Full details of all Committee changes during the year are set out on page 62.
Lord Blackwell Chairman, Nomination & Governance Committee the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the Senior Independent Committee purpose and responsibilities Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman The purpose of the Committee is to keep the Boards of the Remuneration Committee and, from 17 July 2015, the governance, composition, skills, experience, knowledge, Chairman of the Risk Committee.
The Group Chief Executive independence and succession arrangements under review and attends meetings as appropriate.
to make appropriate recommendations to the Board to ensure the Companys arrangements are consistent with the highest During the year, the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the corporate governance standards.
The Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, all How Committee meetings are run of which have been accepted during the year.
The Committees The management of the Committee is in keeping with the basis terms of reference can be found at www.
com our-group corporate-governance on which meetings of the Board are managed, as detailed on page 63, with a structure which facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken to ensure adequate time for members Diversity policy of the Committee to consider proposals which are put forward.
The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership reflects diversity in the broadest sense.
For Matters considered by the Committee information on the diversity policy, please refer to page 66.
During the year the Committee considered a number of issues relating to the Groups governance arrangements, both Committee composition, internal and external.
It assisted the Chairman in keeping the skills and experience composition of the Board and its Committees under review and To ensure a broad representation of experienced and to lead the appointment process for nominations to the Board.
independent Directors, membership of the Committee comprises These issues are summarised on the next page.
72 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 SUCCESSION PLANNING A STRATEGIC APPROACH Approach Succession planning in practice The Committee recognises that good succession planning JUNE Search commenced for two Non-Executive Directors contributes to the delivery of the Groups strategy by ensuring 2015 Executive search firm Russell Reynolds, who have no other the desired mix of skills and experience of Board members connection with the Group, appointed to support the search now and in the future.
Role specification drawn up, taking into account the Board Just as importantly, talent needs to be recognised and skills audit and current and future Board requirements and nurtured within executive and management levels and togive due weight to diversity objectives across the Group as a whole.
The Groups Annual Talent Search focused on candidates who would bring a Review allows the Group to identify talent and have the right combination of core retail and or commercial banking succession plans and development programmes in place experience and in technology operations to ensure the Group creates opportunities for current and Candidates considered from North America and other future leaders.
overseas locations as well as the UK Process The Committee supports the Chairman in keeping the Long list of candidates considered SEPT composition of the Board and its Committees underOCT Short list of potential candidates selected and approached regular review and in leading the appointment process 2015 by Russell Reynolds to gauge interest for nominations to the Board.
Potential candidates invited to meet the Chairman, Group At the core of the process is an on-going audit led by the Chief Executive and individual Committee members Chairman of the collective Boards technical and governance skill set.
This exercise allows the creation of a matrix which the Chairman uses to track the Boards strengths and identify gaps NOV Recommended to the Board the appointment of two 2015 in the desired collective skills profile of Board members taking candidates, Deborah McWhinney and Stuart Sinclair, who into account the Groups future strategic direction.
had stood out in the recruitment process as having the skills, experience, values and personal characteristics to be strong Gaps may also be identified through the annual Board contributors to the Board and to address the Boards skills evaluation process, where Board composition is a key focus.
requirements Underpinning this process is consideration of the personal characteristics that an individual is expected to bring to theBoard.
Deborah McWhinney joined the Board on 1 December 2015 DEC 2015- and brings an extensive executive background in managing The Committee considers the adequacy of succession JAN technology, operations and new digital innovations across arrangements for Executive Directors, members of the GEC 2016 banking, payments and institutional investment.
She also and their direct reports.
The Chairman is responsible for broadens Board diversity with a global market perspective developing and maintaining a succession plan in relation to Stuart Sinclair joined the Board on 4 January 2016 and in the Group Chief Executive who is in turn, primarily responsible addition to his retail banking experience, also brings wider for developing and maintaining a succession plan for key experience of consumer and asset finance as well as leadership positions in the senior executive team.
insurance The Board is kept informed of senior executive succession planning with the leadership approach visible to all Board well placed to address future technology and market risks Non-Executive Directors.
across the full range of business areas in which the Group operates During 2015, the Committee received regular corporate How the Nomination & Governance governance updates from the Company Secretary, Committee spent its time in 2015 consideredthe impact of emerging regulation on the Board and its corporate governance practices, received a report from Effectiveness the Chairman on communications from shareholders and During 2015, the Committee oversaw the annual evaluations of approved the appointment of Trustees to the Banks the performance of the Board and its Committees.
2015, the Committee reviewed the findings of the 2014 Board Effectiveness Review and recommended actions to the Board Independence and time commitments to address the areas identified for improvement.
Progress The independence of Non-Executive Directors, the election against the plan was reviewed during the year.
For the 2015 orre-election of Directors and their suitability to continue in Board Effectiveness Review, the Committee made office were reviewed.
In assessing independence, the recommendations to the Board on the process and timing of Committee did not rely solely on the Code criteria but the review including the appointment of an external facilitator.
considered whether, in fact, the Non-Executive Director was Full details of the 2015 Board Effectiveness Review together demonstrably independent and free of relationships and other with details of the progress against the 2014 review actions are circumstances that could affect their judgement.
It did this set out on pages 67 and 68. with reference to the individual performance and conduct in reaching decisions.
It also took account of any relationships Corporate governance that had been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
Based The Committee continued its role of overseeing the Boards on its assessment for 2015, the Committee is satisfied that, governance arrangements to ensure that they paid due regard throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors remained to best practice principles and remain appropriate.
In 2015, in independent as to both character and judgement.
addition to the annual review of the Corporate Governance The Committee reviewed the role, including capabilities and Framework, the Committee oversaw an additional end-to-end time commitment, of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior review by the Company Secretary and a further review in Independent Director, Non-Executive Directors, the Group preparation for the SM&CR.
The Company Secretarys findings Chief Executive and Executive Directors and found them to and the Boards response are set out on page 69. be appropriate.
73 Governance Corporate governance report continued Committee meetings AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Eligible to attend Attended Committee Chairman Nick Luff 7 7 Committee members who served during 2015 Alan Dickinson 7 7 Anita Frew 7 7 1 Simon Henry 7 5 2 Deborah McWhinney 1 1 Nick Prettejohn 7 7 Anthony Watson 7 7 Former Committee The quality of external and internal members who served during 2015 audit services continues to be of 3 Carolyn Fairbairn 6 6 central importance to the Group, 1 Mr Henry was unable to attend both January and July Audit Committee and the Committee has played a meetings due to prior executive commitments.
2 Joined the Committee on 1 December 2015. key role in safeguarding these 3 Retired on 31 October 2015. essential assurance activities.
Dear Shareholders It has been another busy year for the Committee.
We have The Committee has overseen continued transformation of the continued to focus on the issues relevant to the Groups financial internal audit function under the leadership of the Group Audit reporting, considering key accounting judgments and ensuring Director, Mary Hall, following her appointment in the second ongoing quality in related disclosures.
We have also spent a half of 2014.
Audit planning, supported by the development of significant proportion of our time considering other key areas, an audit risk universe, has been enhanced, and greater rigour including monitoring of the Groups internal control framework, has been introduced to the audit methodology.
Carefully where we continue to work to ensure it remains strong and fit directed use of external expertise is being used to ensure that forpurpose.
appropriate skills are deployed in audits of technical areas, and good progress is being made in developing the skills and Assessing the appropriate provisioning for the costs of redress experience of the internal audit team.
relating to Payment Protection Insurance PPI remains the most significant area of judgment in the Groups financial reporting.
Ensuring the continued effectiveness of the external audit has There have been major developments in this area during 2015, also been a focus for the Committee.
We reviewed the plan for including the consultation by the FCA on a potential time bar the external audit, considered the reports from the external for claims.
auditor on accounting and control matters, and engaged with them on key judgments.
We are working with the auditors to The Committee has reviewed and challenged managements ensure a smooth transition to a new lead audit partner for the assessment of the remaining costs relating to PPI claims and is 2016 audit.
satisfied that the accounting, and related disclosures, are appropriate.
Further detail on PPI and other key financial Nick Luff reporting issues are set out in the report below.
Chairman, Audit Committee All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Committee purpose and responsibilities Directors, the majority with recent and relevant experience in The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and review the finance and or banking.
Nick Luff is a chartered accountant and Groups financial and narrative reporting arrangements, the has significant financial experience in the UK listed environment effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting and enabling him to fulfill the role of Audit Committee Chair, the risk management framework, whistleblowing arrangements and for SEC purposes the role of Audit Committee Financial and each of the internal and external audit processes.
In addition, Simon Henry is a certified accountant and The Audit Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges has extensive knowledge of financial markets, treasury and its responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, risk management, and also qualifies as an Audit Committee all of which have been accepted during the year.
A full list of Financial Expert under SEC rules.
responsibilities is detailed in the Committees terms of reference, which can be found at www.
com our-group How Committee meetings are run corporate-governance The management of the Committee is in keeping with the basis on which meetings of the Board are managed, as detailed on Committee composition, page 63, with a structure which facilitates open discussion and skills and experience debate, with steps taken to ensure adequate time for members of the Committee to consider proposals which are put forward.
The Committee acts independently of the executive to ensure that the interests of the shareholders are properly protected in During the course of the year, the Committee held separate relation to financial reporting and internal control.
sessions with the internal and external audit teams, without members of the executive management present.
During 74 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 the year, the Committee met its key objectives and carried Matters considered by the Committee out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual During the year the Committee considered a number of issues effectiveness review.
Based on the outcomes of the annual relating to the Groups financial reporting, these issues are board effectiveness review further efforts are being made to summarised below, including discussion of the conclusions the build upon improvements made in the previous year on the Committee reached, and the key factors considered by the timeliness and quality of Committee papers, and additional Committee in reaching its conclusions.
opportunities for training for Committee members are being introduced.
In addition, the Committee considered a number of other significant issues not related directly to financial reporting, Whilst the Committees membership comprises the including internal controls, internal audit and external audit.
Non-Executive Directors noted above, all Non-Executive These issues are also discussed in detail in the next section, Directors may attend meetings as agreed with the Chairman.
including insight into the key factors considered by the The Group Audit Director, the external auditor, the Group Chief Committee in reaching its conclusion.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Risk Officer also attend meetings of the Committee as appropriate.
How the Audit Committee spent its time in 2015 Financial reporting During the year, the Committee considered the following significant financial issues in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management, Group Audit and the external auditor: KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION The Committee continued to challenge the assumptions made by management to Payment Protection Insurance PPI determine the provision for PPI redress and administration costs.
It also reviewed Determining the adequacy of the provision managements assessment of i the scope of the reviews required by the regulator: for redress payments and administration ii claims management company activity: and iii the potential impact of a consultation costs in connection with the mis-selling of paper by the Financial Conduct Authority on setting a deadline by which consumers PPI is highly judgmental.
The Group makes would need to make their PPI complaints and on the potential impact of Plevin, all of a number of assumptions about the number which have significant impact on redress and administration costs.
of future complaints that will be received The Committee oversaw continued use of sensitivities reflecting the uncertainty that including uphold rates for complaints remains around the ultimate cost of PPI.
received: average redress payments: and related administrative costs.
Group Audit has reviewed the process used by management to calculate the PPI provision and has provided assurance to the Committee that the process uses In the 2015 full year results, an additional reasonable, consistent and supportable assumptions and inputs.
provision of 4,000 million was made The Committee concluded that the processes followed by management in determining for expected PPI costs.
To 31 December the provision for PPI redress continued to be appropriate and that the provisions and the 2015, the Group has provided a total of Groups external disclosures were appropriate.
16,025million in respect of PPI mis-selling redress and administration costs.
The disclosures relating to PPI are set out in note 39: Other provisions on page 234 of the financial statements.
For Packaged Bank Accounts, the Committee understood the basis for determining Other conduct provisions expected complaints levels, the range of potential redress payments and the adequacy During 2015 the Group has made of provisions made for operational costs for the expected duration of the programme.
provisions for a number of other conduct Group Audit has undertaken a review of the process that has been established and related matters, including potential redress maintained by management to calculate the extent of conduct related provisions: and in respect of Packaged Bank Accounts has provided assurance to the Committee that the process uses reasonable, consistent, which required assumptions to be made, supportable assumptions and inputs.
The Committee was satisfied that the provisions for other conduct matters were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to other conduct provisions are set out in note 39: Other provisions on page 234 of the financial statements.
The Committee challenged the level of provisions made and the assumptions used Allowance for impairment losses to calculate the impairment provisions held by the Group.
on loans and receivables Group Audit has assessed the effectiveness of impairment governance processes Determining the appropriateness of and reported their findings to the Committee.
impairment losses is judgemental and The Committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate.
The requires the Group to make assumptions.
disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note53: Financial risk management on page 265 of the financial statements.
The Committee considered the recognition of deferred tax assets, in particular legal Recoverability of the deferred entity forecast taxable profits based on the Groups operating plan and the Groups tax asset long-term financial and strategic plans.
A deferred tax asset can be recognised The Committee considered the impact on deferred tax assets of changes in tax only to the extent that it is recoverable.
legislation and the removal of the ability to offset customer redress costs against Where a deferred tax asset arises from taxable profits.
carry forward losses, the future levels of taxable profit in the Group must The Committee agreed with managements judgement that the deferred tax assets were appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits, taking into account the Groups be assessed.
long-term financial and strategic plans.
The disclosures relating to deferred tax are set out in note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements on page 197 and note 38: Deferred tax on page 232 of the financial statements.
75 Governance Corporate governance report continued KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION The uncertain tax positions of the Group were considered taking into account the Uncertain tax positions respective views of management and the views of the relevant tax authorities.
The The Group has open tax matters which Committee also understood the external advice obtained by management to support require it to make judgements about the the views taken.
most likely outcome for the purposes of The Committee was satisfied that the provisions and disclosures made in respect of calculating its tax position.
uncertain tax positions were appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note49: Contingent liabilities and commitments on page 246 of the financial statements.
Retirement benefit obligations As in previous years, the Committee considered the assumptions underlying the calculation of the defined benefit liabilities, in particular the discount rate and mortality The Group must make both financial assumptions which, following the completion of the triennial funding valuation, have been and demographic assumptions of a updated to reflect recent experience.
judgemental nature to determine the The Committee was also satisfied that the Groups quantitative and qualitative value of the defined benefit obligation.
disclosures made in respect of retirement benefit obligations are appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note 37: Retirement benefit obligations on page 226 of the financial statements.
The Committee challenged the economic and non-economic actuarial assumptions Value-In-Force VIF asset and made by management and reviewed the movements in the key assumptions since insurance liabilities 31December 2014.
Determining the value of the VIF asset and The Committee was satisfied that the value of the VIF asset and insurance liabilities were insurance liabilities is judgemental and appropriate.
The disclosures are set out in note 25 on page218 and note 33 on page 222 requires economic and non-economic of the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed the methodologies for the Groups derivative valuation Adjustment to derivative valuations adjustments, including managements proposal to base future funding valuation Determining the credit, debit and funding adjustments on executed trades, rather than average interbank rates, and to include valuation adjustments for uncollateralised the adjustment in the valuation of all of the Groups uncollateralised derivatives.
derivative transactions requires management The Committee is satisfied that the proposed change and the disclosures set out in note to make appropriate judgements on matters 50 to the financial statements on page 249 are appropriate.
such as the creditworthiness of the derivative counterparty.
Judgement was required to assess when the Group ceased to control TSB, at which point Sale of interests in businesses its results and balance sheet were no longer consolidated in the Groups accounts, and Determining the appropriate accounting the loss on disposal recognised.
for the sale of shares in TSB Banking Group The Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment of the various tranches TSB required management to make of TSB shares sold.
judgements when assessing the facts and circumstances specific to each tranche of The interest in Visa Europe is carried as an available-for-sale financial asset.
Committee reviewed managements assessment of its valuation having regard for the terms of the offer made by Visa Inc and concurred with the view taken by management.
Following the offer made by Visa Inc to purchase Visa Europe Limited, management judgement was required to determine an appropriate carrying value of the Groups interest in Visa Europe.
The Committee sought managements input to its assessment of the viability of the Viability statement Company and the Group.
The assessment, which was based on the Groups operating, A new requirement in 2015 requires the capital and funding plans, also included consideration of the principal and emerging directors to confirm whether they have a risks which could impact the performance of the Group, and the liquidity and capital reasonable expectation that the Company projections over the period.
and the Group will be able to continue to The Committee was satisfied that the viability statement be provided and agreed that operate and meet their liabilities as they fall three years was a suitable period of review.
The disclosure must set out the basis for directors conclusions and explain why the period chosen is appropriate.
Hedge accounting The Committee received periodic reports on the Groups hedge accounting strategies, and challenged management on the reasons for any proposed change to existing Determining the appropriateness of hedge practices and the appropriateness of any new strategy.
accounting adjustments is a complex The Committee was satisfied that the changes proposed by management to the Groups process requiring the identification and hedging strategies were appropriate.
on-going monitoring of a large number of accounting hedge relationships.
76 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Auditor independence and remuneration Other significant issues Both the Board and the external auditor have safeguards The following matters were also considered by the Committee: in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has a comprehensive Risk management and internal control systems policy to regulate the use of the auditor for non-audit services.
Full details of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process are given within the In some cases, PwC are selected over another service provider risk management report on pages 111 to 169.
Specific matters due to their detailed knowledge and understanding of the that the Committee considered during the year included: business.
Any allowable non-audit service with a value above a defined fee limit requires prior approval from the Committee the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial Chairman.
The total amount of fees paid to the auditor for reporting and risk management: both audit and non audit related services in 2015 is disclosed in the extent of the work undertaken by the Finance teams note11 to the financial statements on page 206.
Thedecrease across the Group and consideration of the resources to against the prior year largely relates to fees incurred in 2014 in ensure that the control environment continued to operate respect of assurance services provided by PwC ahead of the effectively: Initial Public Offering of TSB in June 2014. the major findings of internal investigations into control External auditor weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and managements response along with any control deficiencies identified The Committee oversees the relationship with the external through the assessment of the effectiveness of the internal auditor.
During the year, the Committee considered the controls over financial reporting under the US Sarbanesauditors terms of engagement including remuneration, their Oxley Act: and independence and objectivity and approved the audit plan including methodology and risk identification processes.
Three Lines of Defence, where Group Audit led an assessment of the effectiveness of such arrangements during The Committee also considered the effectiveness and the first half of the year, and reported regularly to the performance of the auditor and the audit process.
Committee on progress made by management against Theseassessments considered data and information from actions raised as part of this assessment.
a number of sources including: The Committee was satisfied that internal controls over financial the results of an internal effectiveness survey: and reporting were appropriately designed and operating effectively.
the Financial Reporting Councils FRC 2015 Audit Quality Inspection Report AQIR on PwC published in May 2015.
Group Audit The Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the auditors In monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of the internal performance and recommended to the Board a proposal audit function and their audit programme the Committee: for the reappointment of the auditor, to be approved at the monitored the effectiveness of Group Audit and their audit CompanysAGM.
programme through quarterly reports on the activities undertaken and a report from the Quality Assurance function Statutory Audit Services compliance within Group Audit: The company and the Group confirms its compliance with the approved the annual audit plan and budget and reviewed provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies progress against the plan through the year: Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender considered the major findings of significant internal audits, Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 and managements response: and for the year to 31 December 2015. reviewed thematic audits completed during the period PwC have been auditor to the company and the Group since which included topics on customer outcomes, operational 1995, having previously been auditor tocertain of the Groups resilience and embedding of the Risk Management constituent companies.
PwC were re-appointed as auditor Framework.
with effect from 1 January 2016 as part of a tendering process conducted during 2014.
Speak Up the Groups whistleblowing service The Committee received and considered reports from management on the Groups whistleblowing arrangements including summaries of cases and ongoing reviews of the Whistleblowing Governance Structure.
On consideration of the reports submitted, the Committee was satisfied with the actions which had been taken, the reports first having been considered and approved by the Boards Whistleblowing Champion, Anita Frew.
77 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Committee meetings Eligible to attend Attended Committee Chairman Alan Dickinson 8 8 Committee members who served during 2015 Lord Blackwell 8 8 Anita Frew 8 8 1 Simon Henry 8 7 2 Deborah McWhinney Dyfrig John 8 8 Nick Luff 8 8 3 The Committee continues to Nick Prettejohn 8 7 Anthony Watson 8 8 set the tone from the top on Sara Weller 8 8 risk management and embedding 1 Mr Henry was unable to attend the May Risk Committee meeting due to risk culture.
3 Mr Prettejohn was unable to attend the May Risk Committee meeting due to prior executive commitments.
Dear Shareholders I am pleased to have this first opportunity to write to you as Considerable time has also been spent in the review of risks Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, with our report on relating to the resilience of IT systems and cyber security, an how the Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2015. area of major importance to the Group.
Management has taken material action to address these issues, a position the We have continued to take a dynamic approach to the review Committee will continue to monitor closely in 2016. of existing and emerging risks, balancing our agenda to include standing areas of risk management, whilst ensuring key risks As in previous years, the Committee has regularly considered which have emerged during the course of year are escalated for in detail the Consolidated Risk Report, discussed further on the Committees consideration.
Considerable time has been page80, which provides a comprehensive overview of the spent by the Committee in making sure that satisfactory action various categories of risk management, including an assessment is taken in the management of risk arising from the Groups of adherence to risk appetite limits set by the Board.
material lending portfolios, notably our Mortgage and The Committee has concluded that the Group continues to have Commercial lending.
Good progress has been made during strong discipline in the management of both emerging and the year in further understanding the underlying risks and existing risks and has taken further positive steps towards enhancing risk management.
achieving the objective of operating a safe, low risk bank.
The I would also like to highlight the Committees work in helping to environment in which the Group operates continues to change achieve the core aim of operating as a safe, low risk bank, where rapidly and the Committee will continue to review emerging and we consider the Group has made good progress.
We have seen inherent risks with that objective very much in mind.
deeper embedding of a strong risk culture helping to deliver Alan Dickinson further reduction in overall risk levels compared to 2014.
Chairman, Board Risk Committee responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, Committee purpose and responsibilities which can be found at The purpose of the Board Risk Committee is to review the risk www.
com our-group corporate-governance culture of the Group, setting the tone from the top in respect of risk management.
The Committee is also responsible for Committee composition, ensuring the risk culture is fully embedded and supports at all skills and experience times the Groups agreed risk appetite, covering the extent and categories of risk which the Board considers as acceptable for Alan Dickinson became Chair of the Board Risk Committee the Company.
on 1 January 2015, taking over responsibility from Anita Frew.
Alan is a highly regarded Retail and Commercial banker, having In seeking to achieve this, the Committee assumes spent 37 years with the Royal Bank of Scotland, most notably as responsibility for monitoring the Groups Risk Management Chief Executive of RBS UK, overseeing the groups Retail and Framework, which embraces risk principles, policies, Commercial operations in the UK.
The Committee is composed methodologies, systems, processes, procedures and people.
It of independent Non-Executive Directors, who provide also includes the review of new, or material amendments to risk core banking and risk knowledge, together with breadth of principles and polices, and overseeing any action resulting from experience which brings knowledge from other sectors, and material breaches of such policy.
a clear awareness of the importance of putting the customer More details on the Groups wider approach to risk at the centre of all that the Group does.
management can be found in the Risk Management Whilst the Committee is made up of the Non-Executive section on pages 111 to 169.
Full details of the Committees Directors noted above, the Non-Executive Directors who were 78 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 not members of the Committee routinely attended meetings As the most senior risk forum in the Group, the Committee during 2015.
Stuart Sinclair was appointed as an independent interacts with other related risk forums, including the Executive Non-Executive Director and a member of the Committee on Group Risk Committee.
Such interaction assists with the agenda 4 January 2016, and from January 2016, all Non-Executive planning process, where in addition to annual agenda planning, Directors are members of the Board Risk Committee.
The matters considered by the Group Risk Committee are reviewed Chief Risk Officer has full access to the Committee and attends to ensure escalation of all relevant matters to the Board Risk all meetings, the Group Audit Director and members of the Committee.
Executive also attend meetings as appropriate.
Matters considered by the Committee During the year the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the Over the course of the year the Committee considered a wide annual effectiveness review.
range of risks facing the Group, both standing and emerging, across all key areas of risk management, in addition to risk culture and risk appetite, as noted above.
How Committee meetings are run The management of the Committee is in keeping with the basis As part of this review, certain risks were identified which required on which meetings of the Board are managed, as detailed on further detailed consideration.
Set out below is a summary of these page 63, with a structure which facilitates open discussion and risks, with an outline of the material factors considered by the debate.
Steps are taken to ensure adequate time for members Committee, and the conclusions which were ultimately reached.
to consider proposals which are put forward.
How the Board Risk Committee spent its time in 2015 KEY RISKS COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION As highlighted in several of the individual sections below, the Committee seeks to ensure that conduct risk is Conduct risk considered and reviewed to ensure the highest standards are applied.
For further detail see the sections on The Committee continues Low Risk Bank, Consolidated Risk Report and Divisional Risk Profiles.
In addition the Committee considered to focus closely on the reports on complaints, rectifications, conduct risk appetite metrics and product governance.
Groups approach to conduct risk.
Conclusion: Whilst a great deal has been achieved as a result of the Groups conduct strategy initiatives, which continue to transition into business as usual management, improving the Groups conduct risk profile remains a priority for the Group in 2016 and will continue to be a subject of focus for the Committee.
Material lending In reviewing the material lending portfolios, consideration was given to the quality and size of the lending books, with additional review of the quality of new lending, potential levels of impairments and overall levels portfolios of sector concentration.
The performance of these portfolios in stressed situations was also considered, in Review was undertaken of order to determine their resilience in a wide range of adverse conditions.
the risks associated with the Groups material lending Conclusion: Management continues to take satisfactory action in addressing the risks arising from these key lending portfolios, and the Committee will continue to review these core aspects of the Groups business portfolios, including the key Retail mortgage portfolio during the course of 2016. and the Commercial portfolio.
Low risk bank In assessing progress during the year in achieving this important objective, a number of factors were considered, including financial, operational and credit risk metrics, with particular attention given to Considerable time was assessing progress in delivering the Groups conduct strategy.
Review of the Groups progress and risk devoted to reviewing profile in these areas was also considered relative to its financial services peer group.
Delivering greater progress with the Groups customer focus is a core requirement of the low risk strategy, and was a further important consideration stated aim of operating as a in the Committees assessment of the steps taken during the year.
simple, low risk, customer focused bank, generating Conclusion: The Group continues to move further towards achieving its stated aim of operating as a low risk stable and sustainable bank, and compares favourably in most related areas of assessment with its peer group, with particularly earnings.
good progress in lowering levels of risk in respect of conduct, capital management and credit quality.
As further management initiatives to deliver the Groups low risk aims are implemented, the Committee will continue to review progress made during the course of the coming year.
The adequacy of arrangements for IT operational resilience were considered in detail, including the levels IT resilience and cyber of complexity and automation in the Groups IT systems, with emphasis on processes which underpinned security services critical to day to day operations, in particular those with immediate customer impact.
In respect The risks posed in respect of cyber security, consideration was given to areas including possibilities for malicious access and removal of cyber security and the of information from systems, and the ability of the Group to detect such attacks.
overall resilience of the IT systems has been a central A variety of exercises were undertaken to test the resilience of IT and cyber security arrangements, with considerable time spent reviewing the results of these exercises and considering the recommendations area of focus for the Committee, acknowledging of management to provide enhancements to these arrangements.
In particular the delivery of the Groups related Cyber Security and IT Resilience programmes was reviewed.
Consideration was also given to the the increased threat posed to the Groups business by Groups position in the context of its wider banking sector peers.
Conclusion: Whilst much has been achieved in respect of IT resilience and cyber security initiatives, including enhancements delivered to increase resilience to cyber threats, and evidence of a more unified approach to IT resilience, work in respect IT resilience and cyber security will remain an important area for the Group in 2016, and will continue to be reviewed by the Committee.
79 Governance Corporate governance report continued KEY RISKS COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION The stress testing scenarios considered by the Committee were diverse, including internally modelled Stress testing scenarios involving factors such as material economic downturns and large scale cyber-attack, with further The review of stress testing consideration of stress testing against a number of external scenarios, including those set by the PRA.
exercises and their results was a key area of focus Assessment was made of the impacts in these scenarios on a range of metrics relating to resilience in during the year.
adverse conditions, including amongst others impacts on the Groups capital and liquidity positions, in particular the impact on the tier one common capital ratio.
Comparison in each scenario of the Groups position relative to its competitors was also undertaken, with detailed review of the mitigating actions proposed by management in each scenario.
Conclusion: The Groups capital and liquidity positions remained above required minimums in testing against both internal and external scenarios, with outcomes in most scenarios remaining above the wider risk appetite targets set by the Board.
The implementation and assessment of robust and well managed stress testing arrangements will remain a key area of focus for the Committee in the coming year.
The Consolidated Risk Report enables review of all core areas of risk management, including Capital, Credit, Consolidated risk report Operational, Regulatory and Conduct risk amongst others, providing further analysis of key component Review was undertaken areas of risk management under each of these headings.
Consideration was given not only to the risk on a regular basis of a management position on a point in time basis, but also on a look forward basis, with rolling 12 month consolidated report on key forecasts, including review of proposed management action to address key risks as they develop.
aspects of risk management across the business, both Conclusion: The Consolidated Risk Report has assisted the Committee in its assessment of the Groups existing and emerging risks, management of both existing and emerging risks, with ongoing progress being made to embed policies including assessment of and practice required to mitigate common areas of risk, and sufficient levels of agility within the organisation adherence to risk appetite to address emerging risks as the Groups operating plan continues to develop.
Focus was given to unique areas of risk management within each division, in addition to review of divisional Divisional risk profiles performance in areas of risk management common across the business, including conduct risk In addition to the management, portfolio concentrations, market conditions, and the overall quality of both new and Consolidated Risk Report, existing business.
detailed summaries of risk management across each of Detailed comparisons of the approach to the management of risk within each division were also considered, the Groups main operating including any significant differences in approach, and any instances of potential best practice which could be divisions were also implemented across the Group.
Common and emerging trends were also highlighted.
Conclusion: Key risks continue to be well managed within each of the Groups main operating divisions, with action taken within each business to address risks which are specific to that division.
Such action is aided by the unified approach taken in addressing risks which are common across all areas of the Group, including improving management of conduct risks.
The constantly evolving regulatory and economic landscapes in which the Group operates, both within the Emerging risks UK and overseas, have been important factors in assessing emerging risk, and agreeing mitigating actions Achieving the Groups low where material change is anticipated.
risk ambitions requires review of the material risks Areas of focus have included the opportunities and risks emerging from developments in technology, emerging, in particular in in particular in relation to the Groups ambition of improving its digital and technological capabilities in relation to the Groups delivering for customers.
Risks arising from the implementation of banking sector ring-fencing legislation operating plan, assessing have also been an important consideration, ensuring adequate forward planning is undertaken to address their likely impact and anticipated risks as requirements in this area continue to emerge.
agreeing appropriate Conclusion: The Group has a good understanding and oversight of its emerging risk position, and takes mitigants.
steps to mitigate the impacts of new risks as they appear, ensuring close alignment in its assessment of emerging risks with developments in both the Groups business model and its external regulatory and economic environment.
Banking reform A number of initiatives are in course across the organisation to implement the provisions of the Financial Services Banking Reform Act the Act, including projects to enable the implementation of the Senior Review was undertaken of Managers and Certification Regime, and also the requirements of ring-fenced banking.
the Groups implementation of Banking Reform, Conclusion: As part of its review of these arrangements the Committee concluded there continues to be including Senior Managers action needed to fully implement the requirements of the Act, as detailed provisions continue to emerge, and Certification Regime however the Group is well placed to respond to the ongoing requirements and future developments.
Pensions risk Factors considered by the Committee in the assessment of pensions risk included levels of risk appetite in relation to overall pension provision, with particular consideration of projected future asset performance Risks arising from the in changing economic conditions.
The risks posed in respect of certain market events were also assessed, Groups various pension including potential interest rate and inflation changes, and also the impact on Group pension schemes arrangements were of ongoing improvements in life expectancy.
reviewed, in light of ongoing changes in Conclusion: Despite the impact of wider macro-economic uncertainty, and the potential impact on actuarial profiles.
underlying investments, the levels of risk in relation to the Groups pension schemes continue to be well managed and remain within risk appetite for the Group.
80 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Committee meetings RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Eligible to attend Attended COMMITTEE REPORT Committee Chairman Sara Weller 3 3 Committee members who served during 2015 Lord Blackwell 3 3 Anita Frew 3 3 The establishment of a Board Committee to oversee our responsible business activities demonstrates our commitment to doing business in the right way as we work to help Britain prosper.
Dear Shareholders overview of what the Group is doing to help Britains communities, businesses and individuals address current social and economic I am delighted to present the first report from the Responsible issues.
TheCommittee has overseen the development of both Business Committee, formed in July 2015, to provide oversight, plans, as they evolve in response to progress we have already challenge and guidance on the Groups approach to becoming made and challenges that lie ahead.
The Committee has made progress in establishing its working The Committees remit includes: patterns and reporting arrangements since its first meeting in the establishment, measurement and review of plans to July2015.
We look forward to continuing our work in 2016 when strengthen the Groups culture and values: ourfocus will be on: the evolution of the HBPP and stakeholder the Groups approach to: building trust with customers: reaction to it: tracing the Groups reputation and trust amongst communities: environment: employees: ethical business: a wide range of stakeholder groups: measuring our progress on stakeholder engagement and reputation: building a culture that puts customers at the heart of what we do: the design and development of the Responsible Business plan and supporting work to embed responsible business activities with and Helping Britain Prosper Plan HBPP and the measurement all our colleagues across the business.
of performance against these plans.
Sara Weller An update on our responsible business activities forms part of the Chairman, Responsible Business Committee strategic report on page 22.
The HBPP, on page15, provides an Establishment of the Committee The Committees activities in 2015 An executive level Committee to oversee the Groups responsible During 2015, the Committee has: business activities was established in 2013, chaired by a Nonreceived updates on the development of a framework for Executive Director, with membership drawn from senior leaders assessing and measuring stakeholder trust, including customers across the Group.
The Committee played a key role in the and shareholders: development of the initial HBPP and the Groups focus on worked with the executive team to develop the HBPP with a operating as a responsible business.
focused suite of metrics: A recommendation to establish the Board level Responsible considered reports from the Chairman of the Group Customer Business Committee RBC was accepted by the Board in April First Committee see update on page 22 and GEC members 2015.
The Company Secretary worked with colleagues to ensure on the development of the Groups culture framework: and the RBCs remit met current good practice standards that aligned discussed responsible business activities in the Group with with, but did not overlap, the responsibilities of the executive level colleagues in business areas, including Group Sourcing.
Group Customer First Committee see page 119.
Responsible Business Committee and external stakeholders The members of the Committee have an ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders with an interest in the Committees activities.
During 2015, the Committee invited a representative of the Groups Stakeholder Advisory Panel to provide feedback on the 2015 HBPP and recommendations for areas of focus in the 2016 Plan.
Representatives of the Financial Conduct Authority were invited to attend a meeting to observe the Committee at work.
In 2016, the Committee will be inviting representatives of the Banking Standards Board and the Competition and Markets Authority, amongst others, to join a meeting to discuss their respective work programmes.
