Risk management Risk management continued RISK GOVERNANCE The risk governance structure below is integral to effective risk management across the Group.
Risk Division is appropriately represented on key committees to ensure that risk management is discussed in these meetings.
This structure outlines the flow and escalation of risk information and reporting from business areas and Risk Division to GEC and Board.
Conversely, strategic direction and guidance is cascaded down from the Board and GEC.
Company Secretariat support senior and Board level committees, and support the Chairs in agenda planning.
This gives a further line of escalation outside the Three Lines of Defence.
Table 1.2: Risk governance structure Reporting Reporting Audit Board Risk Risk Division Committee Committee Board Committees and Governance Executive GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Credit Approval Committee Group Chief Executive Committees Commercial Aggregation, Independent Group Asset Group Credit Risk Banking Credit escalation challenge and Liability Executive Group Risk Governance Risk Committees Committee Committee Committee GALCO GEC GRC Retail & Consumer Finance Credit Group Group Product Executive Risk Committees Customer First Governance Compensation Committee Committee Committee Group Market Market Risk Independent Aggregation, Risk Committee Governance challenge escalation Pensions Committee Operational Risk Governance Primary escalation Group Conduct, Compliance & Conduct, Operational Risk Compliance Business area principal Enterprise Risk Committees Committee and People Risk Customer Governance Consumer Products and Retail Risk Finance Risk Markets Risk Committee Committee Committee Group Financial Financial Crime Crime Risk Independent Independent Committee Governance Commercial challenge challenge Banking Risk Digital Risk Insurance Risk Committee Committee Committee Group Financial Financial Risk Group Group Risk Committee Governance Operations Functions Finance Risk Risk Executive Risk Committee Committee Committees Group Model Model Risk Governance Governance International Committee Business Risk Committee Insurance Risk through the governance arrangements for Insurance Group Reporting Reporting Insurance Group is a separate FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE RISK regulated entity with its own MANAGEMENT Board, governance structure and Chief Risk Officer Independent challenge of both Risk Division First and Second lines of defence Risk Committee 118 THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE RISK ASSURANCE GROUP AUDIT SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE RISK OVERSIGHT Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board, Executive and Risk Committees The Groups risk governance structure see table 1.2 strengthens risk evaluation and management, while also positioning the Group to manage the changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
Assisted by the Board Risk and Audit Committees, the Board approves the Groups overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
Refer to the Corporate Governance section on pages60 to 81, for further information on Board committees.
The divisional functional risk committees review and recommend divisional functional risk appetite and monitor local risk profile and adherence to appetite.
Insurance, which is subject to separate regulation, has its own Board and governance structure.
The Insurance Board, assisted by a Risk Oversight Committee and Audit Committee, approves the governance, risk and control frameworks for the Insurance business and the Insurance business risk appetite, ensuring it aligns with the Groups framework and risk appetite.
Table 1.3: Executive and Risk Committees The Group Chief Executive is supported by the following: Committees Risk focus Group Executive Committee GEC Supports the Group Chief Executive in exercising his authority in relation to material matters having strategic, cross-business area or Groupwide implications.
Group Risk Committee GRC Reviews and recommends the Groups risk appetite and governance, risk and control frameworks, material Group policies and the allocation of risk appetite.
The committee also regularly reviews risk exposures and risk reward returns and approves material risk models.
Group Asset and Liability Committee Responsible for the strategic management of the Groups assets and liabilities and the profit and loss GALCO implications of balance sheet management actions.
It is also responsible for the risk management framework for market risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and earnings volatility.
Group Customer First Committee Provides a Groupwide perspective on the progress of Groups, Divisions and Functions implementation of GCFC initiatives which enhance the delivery of customer outcomes and customer trust, and set and promote the appropriate tone from the top to fulfil the Groups vision to become the Best Bank for Customers and Help Britain Prosper.
Group Product Governance Provides strategic and senior oversight over design, launch and management of products including new Committee product approval, periodic product reviews and management of risk in the back book.
Executive Compensation Committee Provides governance and oversight for Groupwide remuneration matters and policies.
Pensions Committee Supports the Chief Financial Officer in relation to Group pension arrangements.
The Group Risk Committee is supplemented by the following committees to ensure effective oversight of risk management: Credit Risk Committees Responsible for the development and effectiveness of the relevant credit risk management framework, clear description of the Groups credit risk appetite, setting of credit policy, and compliance with regulatory credit requirements.
Group Market Risk Committee Monitors and reviews the Groups aggregate market risk exposures and concentrations and provides GMRC a proactive and robust challenge around business activities giving rise to market risks.
Group Conduct, Compliance and Responsible for monitoring breaches, material events and risk issues and conducting deep dive assessments Operational Risk Committee on specific Conduct, Compliance or Operational Risk subjects to inform corrective action along with the sharing of information and best practice.
Group Financial Crime Committee Reviews and challenges the management of financial crime risk including the overall strategy and performance and engagement with financial crime authorities.
The committee is accountable for ensuring that, at Group level, financial crime risks are effectively identified and managed within risk appetite and that strategies for financial crime prevention are effectively coordinated and implemented across the Group.
Group Financial Risk Committee Responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to GEC GRC, the Group Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment and Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process submissions, the Group Recovery Plan, and the annual stress testing of the Groups operating plan, PRA and EBA stress tests, and any other analysis as required.
Group Model Governance Responsible for setting the framework and standards for model governance across the Group, including Committee establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority and principles underlying the Groups risk modelling framework, specifically regarding consistency of approach across business units and risk types.
It approves risk models other than material models which are approved by GRC.
119 Risk management Risk management continued FULL ANALYSIS OF RISK DRIVERS The Groups risk framework covers all types of risk which affect the Group and could impact on the achievement of its strategic objectives.
A detailed description of each category is provided below.
Primary risk drivers Credit Conduct Market Operational Funding Capital Regulatory Insurance People Financial Governance 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 risk risk risk and liquidity risk and legal risk risk reporting risk risk 1 1 risk risk risk Page121 Page143 Page144 Page151 Page153 Page160 Page166 Page166 Page167 Page168 Page169 1 The Group considers these to be principal risks.
See risk overview pages28 to 33 for further details.
Secondary risk drivers Portfolio Customer risk Interest rate risk Regulatory and Funding risk Capital Compliance risk Longevity risk Resourcing Financial and Governance concentration legal process sufficiency prudential Product risk Equity risk Liquidity risk Competition Mortality risk Performance Disclosure risk regulatory Client money Capital risk and reward reporting Product Foreign Morbidity risk Model risk Counterparty fiduciary efficiency distribution exchange risk Legal risk Culture and credit risk obligations Tax reporting Customer Ethics advice risk engagement and compliance Credit spread behaviour Country risk Conduct risk risk including Talent and process Pillar 3 Collateral persistency risk succession Inflation risk disclosure management Financial crime Property Learning risk Property risk Financial Fraud insurance risk Well-being delegated Alternative People process Expenses risk authorities assets risk Legal and Sourcing regulatory Basis risk people Service Commodity risk provision Physical security and health and safety Information and cyber security IT systems Change Business process Financial reporting process Governance process Risk process Operational resilience The Group considers both reputational and financial impact in the course of managing all its risks and therefore does not classify reputational impact as a separate risk driver.
120 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CREDIT RISK Definition The risk that customers to whom we have lent money or other counterparties with whom we have contracted, fail to meet their financial obligations both on and off balance sheet, resulting in loss to the Group.
Risk appetite Credit risk appetite is described and reported on a monthly basis through a suite of Board metrics derived from credit portfolio performance measures.
The Board metrics are supported by more detailed sub-Board appetite metrics at Divisional and Business level and by a comprehensive suite of credit risk appetite statements, credit policies, sector caps, and product and country limits to manage concentration risk and exposures within the Groups approved risk appetite.
The metrics cover but are not limited to geographic concentration, single name customer concentration, product exposure, Loan to Value ratios LTVs, higher risk sector concentration, limit utilisation, leveraged exposure, equity exposure, affordability and the obligor quality of new to bank lending.
Credit risk appetite statements and credit policies are regularly reviewed to ensure that the metrics continue to reflect the Groups risk appetite appropriately.
For further information on risk appetite, refer to page112.
Exposures The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from loans and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities and derivatives to customers, financial institutions and sovereigns.
The credit risk exposures of the Group are set out in note 53 on page266.
Credit risk exposures are categorised as retail, arising primarily in the Retail, Consumer Finance and Run-off divisions, and some small and medium sized enterprises SMEs and corporate including corporates, banks, financial institutions, sovereigns and larger SMEs arising primarily in the Commercial Banking, Run-off and Insurance divisions and Group Corporate Treasury GCT.
In terms of loans and advances, for example loans and overdrafts and contingent liabilities for example credit instruments such as guarantees and standby, documentary and commercial letters of credit, credit risk arises both from amounts advanced and commitments to extend credit to a customer or bank as required within documentation.
With respect to commitments to extend credit, the Group is potentially exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is less than the total unused commitments, as most retail commitments to extend credit can be cancelled without notice and the creditworthiness of customers is monitored regularly.
Most commercial term commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards, which together with the creditworthiness of customers are monitored regularly.
Credit risk also arises from debt securities and derivatives.
The total notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and other contracts outstanding at 31December 2015 is shown on page129.
The notional principal amount does not, however, represent the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group.
Such amounts are reflected in note 53 on page 265. Credit risk exposures in the Insurance business largely result from holding bond and loan assets in the shareholder funds including the annuity portfolio and from exposure to reinsurers.
The investments held in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes also expose the Group to credit risk.
Note 31 on page226 provides further information on the defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities.
Loans and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities and derivatives also expose the Group to refinance risk.
Refinance risk is the possibility that an outstanding exposure cannot be repaid at its contractual maturity date.
If the Group does not wish to refinance the exposure then there is refinance risk if the obligor is unable to repay by securing alternative finance.
This may be because the borrower is in financial difficulty, or because the terms required to refinance are outside acceptable appetite at the time.
Refinance risk exposures are managed in accordance with the Groups existing credit risk policies, processes and controls, and are not considered to be material given the Groups prudent and through the cycle credit risk appetite.
Where heightened refinance risk exists such as in Commercial Bankings Business Support Unit BSU or the Run-off book exposures are minimised through intensive account management and would be impaired and or forborne where appropriate.
Measurement In measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to banks at a counterparty level, the Group reflects three components: i the probability of default by the counterparty on its contractual obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty and their likely future development, from which the Group derives the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted obligations the loss given default.
For regulatory capital purposes the Groups rating systems assess probability of default and if appropriate, exposure at default and loss given default, in order to derive an expected loss.
If not appropriate, regulatory prescribed exposure at default and loss given default values are used in order to derive Risk-Weighted Assets RWAs and regulatory Expected Loss EL.
In contrast, impairment allowances are recognised for financial reporting purposes only for loss events that have occurred at the balance sheet date, based on objective evidence of impairment.
Due to the different methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit losses provided for in the financial statements differs from the amount determined from the regulatory expected loss models.
Note 2 H on page191 provides details of the Groups approach to the impairment of financial assets.
The obligor quality measurement of both retail and commercial counterparties is largely based on the outcomes of credit risk probability of default PD models.
The Group operates a number of different regulatory rating models, typically developed internally using statistical analysis and management judgement retail models rely more on the former, commercial models include more of the latter, especially in the larger corporate and more specialised lending portfolios.
Internal data is supplemented with external data in model development, where appropriate.
The models vary, inter alia, in the extent to which they are point in time versus through the cycle.
The models are subject to rigorous validation and oversight governance including, where appropriate, benchmarking to external information.
In commercial portfolios the PD models segment counterparties into a number of rating grades, with each grade representing a defined range of default probabilities, and there are a number of different model rating scales.
Counterparties exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the PD changes.
The modelled PDs map through local scales to a single Corporate non-retail Master Scale comprising of 19 non-default ratings.
Together with four default ratings the Corporate Master Scale forms the basis on which internal reporting is completed.
In the principal retail portfolios, exposure at default and loss given default models are also in use.
For regulatory reporting purposes, counterparties are also segmented into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default probabilities and exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the counterparty probability of default changes.
The Retail Master scale comprises 13non-default ratings and one default rating.
121 Risk management Risk management continued Mitigation The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
Prudent, through the cycle credit principles, risk policies and appetite statements: The independent Risk Division sets out the credit principles, risk policies and risk appetite statements.
Principles and policies are reviewed regularly, and any changes are subject to a review and approval process.
Policies and risk appetite statements, where appropriate, are supported by procedures, which provide a disciplined and focused benchmark for credit decisions.
Risk oversight teams monitor credit performance trends, review and challenge exceptions to planned outcomes, and test the adequacy of credit risk infrastructure and governance processes throughout the Group, which includes tracking portfolio performance against an agreed set of key appetite tolerances.
Oversight and reviews are also undertaken by Group Audit and Credit Risk Assurance.
Strong rating systems and controls: The Group has established an independent team in the Risk Division that sets common minimum standards, designed to ensure risk models and associated rating systems are developed consistently and are of sufficient quality to support business decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
Internal rating systems are developed and owned by the Risk Division.
The designated model owner takes responsibility for ensuring the validation of the rating systems, supported and challenged by an independent specialist Group function.
Limitations on concentration risk: Credit risk management includes portfolio controls on certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk appetite as well as individual, customer and bank limit guidelines.
Credit policies and appetite statements are aligned to the Groups risk appetite and restricts exposure to higher risk countries and more vulnerable sectors and segments.
Note 18 on page214 provides an analysis of loans and advances to customers by industry for commercial customers and product for retail customers.
Exposures are monitored to prevent an excessive concentration of risk and single name concentrations.
These concentration risk controls are not necessarily in the form of a maximum limit on exposure, but may instead require new business in concentrated sectors to fulfil additional certain minimum policy and or guideline requirements.
The Groups large exposures are detailed to the Board and reported in accordance with regulatory reporting requirements.
Robust country risk management: The Board sets country risk appetite.
Within this, country limits are authorised by the country risk appetite committee, taking into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
Group policies stipulate that these limits must be consistent with, and support, the approved business and strategic plans of the Group.
Specialist expertise: Credit quality is managed and controlled by a number of specialist units within Risk Division providing, for example: intensive management and control see Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty : security perfection, maintenance and retention: expertise in documentation for lending and associated products: sector specific expertise: and legal services applicable to the particular market place and product range offered by the business.
Stress testing and scenario analysis: The Groups credit portfolios are also subjected to regular stress testing, with stress scenario assessments run at various levels of the organisation.
Exercises focused on individual divisions and portfolios are performed in addition to the Group led and regulatory stress tests.
For further information on the stress testing process, methodology and governance refer to page115.
Frequent and robust credit risk oversight and assurance: Undertaken by independent Credit Risk Assurance functions operating within Retail and Consumer Credit Risk and Commercial Banking which are part of the Groups second line of defence.
Its primary objective is to provide reasonable and independent oversight that credit risk is being managed with appropriate and effective controls.
Group Audit performs the third line of credit risk assurance.
A specialist team within Group Audit, comprising experienced credit professionals, is in place to carry out independent risk based internal control audits, providing an assessment of the effectiveness of internal credit controls, credit risk classification and the raising of impairment provisions.
These audits cover the diverse range of the Groups businesses and activities, and include both standard risk based audits and reviews as well as bespoke assignments to respond to any emerging risks or regulatory requirement.
The work of Group Audit therefore continues to provide executive, senior management and Board Audit Committee with assurance on effectiveness of credit risk controls, as well as appropriateness of impairments.
Additional mitigation for Retail and Consumer Finance customers The Group uses a variety of lending criteria when assessing applications for mortgages and unsecured lending.
The general approval process uses credit acceptance scorecards and involves a review of an applicants previous credit history using information held by Credit Reference Agencies CRA.
The Group also assesses the affordability of the borrower under a stressed interest rate scenario.
In addition, the Group has in place quantitative limits such as product maximum limits, the level of borrowing to income and the ratio of borrowing to collateral.
Some of these limits relate to internal approval levels and others are hard limits above which the Group will reject the application.
The Group also has certain criteria that are applicable to specific products such as for applications for a mortgage on a property that is to be let by the applicant, Retail and Consumer Finance affordability assessments are compliant with relevant regulatory conduct guidelines.
For UK mortgages, the Groups policy is to reject all standard applications with a Loan to Value LTV greater than 90percent.
Applications with an LTV up to 95percent are permitted for certain schemes, for example the UK governments Help to Buy scheme.
For mainstream mortgages the Group has maximumpercent LTV limits which depend upon the loan size.
Buy-to-let mortgages are limited to a maximum of 1,000,000 and 75percent LTV.
All mortgage applications above 500,000 are subject to manual underwriting.
The Groups approach to underwriting applications for unsecured products ensures that lending is affordable and sustainable.
The Group takes reasonable steps to validate information used in the assessment of a customers income and expenditure.
The Group rejects any application for an unsecured lending product where a customer is registered as bankrupt or insolvent, or has a County Court Judgment in excess of 1,000 registered at a CRA used by the Group.
In addition, the Group rejects any applicant with total unsecured debt greater than 50,000 registered at the CRA: policy rules are also in place to provide additional scrutiny to applications where an applicants total unsecured debt-to-income ratio greater than 100percent.
122 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Where credit acceptance scorecards are used, Risk Division reviews model effectiveness, while new models and model changes are referred by them to the appropriate Model Governance Committees for approval.
All changes are approved in accordance with the governance framework set by the Group Model Governance Committee.
Additional mitigation for Commercial customers Individual credit assessment and independent sanction of customer and bank limits: With the exception of small exposures to SME customers where relationship managers have limited delegated sanctioning authority, credit risk in commercial customer portfolios are subject to sanction by the independent Risk Division, which considers the strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions, the balance of risk and reward, and how credit risk aligns to the Groups risk appetite.
Exposure to individual counterparties, groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is controlled through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities and limit guidelines.
Approval requirements for each decision are based on a number of factors including the transaction amount, the customers aggregate facilities, credit risk ratings and the nature and term of the risk.
The Groups credit risk appetite criteria for counterparty and customer underwriting is generally the same as that for assets intended to be held to maturity.
All underwriting must be sanctioned via credit limits.
Counterparty limits: Limits are set against all types of exposure in a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each exposure type.
This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivative transactions, which incorporates potential future exposures from market movements against agreed confidence intervals.
Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit breaches are subject to escalation procedures.
Daily settlement limits: Settlement risk arises in any situation where a payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities.
Daily settlement limits are established for each counterparty to cover the aggregate of all settlement risk arising from the Groups market transactions on any single day.
Collateral The principal collateral types for loans and advances, contingent liabilities and derivatives with commercial and bank counterparties customers are: properties: charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts receivables: financial instruments such as debt securities: vehicles: cash: and guarantees received from third parties.
The Group maintains appetite guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral.
Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and advances is determined by the nature of the underlying exposure.
Debt securities, including treasury and other bills, are generally unsecured, with the exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments such as covered bonds, which are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
Collateral is generally not held against loans and advances to financial institutions, except where securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into under a master netting agreement.
Derivative transactions with wholesale counterparties are typically collateralised under a Credit Support Annex CSA in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Derivative transactions with non-bank customers are not usually supported by a CSA.
No collateral is held in respect of retail credit card or unsecured personal lending.
For non-mortgage retail lending to small businesses, collateral may include second charges over residential property and the assignment of life cover.
It is policy that commercial lending decisions must be based on an obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
The types of collateral taken and the requirement for which collateral is required at origination is dependent upon the credit quality, size and structure of the borrower.
For non-retail exposures, the Group will often require the collateral to include a first charge over land and buildings owned and occupied by the business, a mortgage debenture over the companys undertaking and one or more of its assets, and key man insurance.
The Group maintains policies setting out acceptable collateral, maximum LTV ratios and other criteria to be considered when reviewing an application.
The decision as to whether or not collateral is required will be based upon the nature of the transaction and the credit worthiness of the customer counterparty.
Other than for project finance, object finance and income producing real estate where charges over the subject assets are a basic requirement, the provision of collateral will not determine the outcome of an application.
Notwithstanding this, the fundamental business proposition must evidence the ability of the business to generate funds from normal business sources to repay a customer counterpartys financial commitment.
The extent to which collateral values are actively managed will depend on the credit quality and other circumstances of the obligor and type of underlying transaction.
Although lending decisions are based on expected cash flows, any collateral provided may impact the pricing and other terms of a loan or facility granted.
This will have a financial impact on the amount of net interest income recognised and on internal loss given default estimates that contribute to the determination of asset quality and returns.
Collateral values are rigorously assessed at the time of loan origination.
It is the Groups policy that collateral should always be realistically valued by an appropriately qualified source, independent of both the credit decision process and the customer, at the time of borrowing.
Collateral values are reviewed on a regular basis and will vary according to the type of lending and collateral involved.
For residential mortgages, the Group adjusts open market property values to take account of the costs of realisation and any discount associated with the realisation of the collateral when estimating credit losses.
In order to minimise the credit loss, the Group may seek additional collateral from the counterparty as soon as early warning signs are identified for the relevant individual loans and advances.
The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
Credit policies are in place to avoid correlation or wrong way risk.
Under the repo policies, the issuer of the collateral and the repo counterparty should be neither the same nor connected.
The same rule applies for derivatives under collateral policies.
The Risk Division has the necessary discretion to extend this rule to other cases where there is significant correlation.
Countries with a rating equivalent to AAand above may be considered to have no adverse correlation between the counterparty domiciled in the country and that country of risk issuer of securities.
Refer to note 53 for further information on collateral.
Master netting agreements Where it is appropriate and likely to be effective, the Group seeks to enter into master netting agreements.
Although master netting agreements do not generally result in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis, they do 123 Risk management Risk management continued reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an event of default occurs, all amounts with the counterparty are terminated and settled on a net basis.
The Groups overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements can change substantially within a short period, since this is the net position of all trades under the master netting agreement.
Other credit risk transfers The Group also undertakes asset sales, credit derivative based transactions and securitisations as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
Monitoring In conjunction with Risk Division, businesses identify and define portfolios of credit and related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours and characteristics by which those portfolios are managed and monitored in terms of credit risk exposure.
This entails the production and analysis of regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management.
Risk Division in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout the Group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are presented to the Divisional Risk Committees, Group Risk Committee and the Board RiskCommittee.
The performance of all rating models is monitored on a regular basis, in order to seek to ensure that models provide appropriate risk differentiation capability, the generated ratings remain as accurate and robust as practical, and the models assign appropriate risk estimates to grades pools.
All models are monitored against a series of agreed key performance indicators.
In the event that the monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations from expected outcomes, these will be escalated in accordance with the governance framework set by the Group Model GovernanceCommittee.
Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty The Group operates a number of treatments to assist borrowers who are experiencing financial stress.
The material elements of these treatments through which the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily or permanently, are set out below.
Retail and Consumer Finance customers The Groups aim in offering forbearance and other assistance to retail customers in financial distress is to benefit both the customer and the Group by discharging the Groups regulatory and social responsibilities to support its customers and act in their best long-term interests and by bringing customer facilities back into a sustainable position which, for residential mortgages, also means keeping customers in their homes.
The Group offers a range of tools and assistance to support retail customers who are encountering financial difficulties.
Cases are managed on an individual basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered separately and the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable for the customer.
Operationally, the provision and review of such assistance is controlled through the application of an appropriate policy framework, controls around the execution of policy, regular review of the different treatments to confirm that they remain appropriate, monitoring of customers performance and the level of payments received, and management visibility of the nature and extent of assistance provided and the associated risk.
Assistance is provided through trained colleagues in branches and dedicated telephony units, and via online guidance material.
For those customers requiring more intensive help, assistance is provided through dedicated support units where tailored repayment programmes can be agreed.
Customers are actively supported and referred to free money advice agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including those at other lenders that require restructuring.
Within the Collections and Recoveries functions, the sharing of best practice and alignment of policies across the Group has helped to drive more effective customer outcomes and achieve operational efficiencies.
The specific tools available to assist customers vary by product and the customers status.
In defining the treatments offered to customers who have experienced financial distress, the Group distinguishes between the following categories: Reduced payment arrangements: a temporary arrangement for customers in financial distress where arrears accrue at the contractual payment, for example short-term arrangements to pay.
Term extensions: a permanent account change for customers in financial distress where the overall term of the mortgage is extended, resulting in a lower contractual monthly payment.
Repair: a permanent account change used to repair a customers position when they have emerged from financial difficulty, for example capitalisation of arrears.
Customers receiving support from UK government sponsored programmes To assist customers in financial distress, the Group also participates in, or benefits from, the following UK government sponsored programmes for households: Income Support for Mortgage Interest This is a government medium term initiative that provides certain defined categories of customers, principally those who are unemployed, access to a benefit scheme, paid for by the government, which covers all or part of the interest on the mortgage.
Qualifying customers are able to claim for mortgage interest on up to 200,000 of the mortgage.
All decisions regarding an individuals eligibility and any amounts payable under the scheme rest solely with the government.
Payments are made directly to the Group by the Department of Work and Pensions.
Mortgage Rescue Schemes This is a government initiative for borrowers in difficulty and facing repossession, who would have priority for re-housing by a local authority e. g. the elderly, disabled, single parents.
Eligible customers can have their property bought in full or part by the social rented sector and then remain in their home as a tenant or shared equity partner.
If the property is sold outright the mortgage is redeemed in full.
Government sponsored Mortgage Rescue Scheme MRS options are currently available in Wales and Scotland in Scotland the MRS option is called the Home Owners Support Fund.
No MRS options areavailable in Northern Ireland although one may be launched by the governmentin the future.
In England, the governmentceased funding and closedits MRS optionin the second quarter of 2015.
The Group assesses whether a loan benefiting from a UK government sponsored programme is impaired using the same accounting policies and practices as it does for loans not benefiting from such a programme.
There is no direct impact on the impairment status of a loan benefiting from the Mortgage Rescue schemes, as these schemes involve the purchase, and eventual sale, of the property.
The loans included within the Income Support for Mortgage Interest scheme may be impaired, in accordance with the normal definition of impairment.
The Income Support for Mortgage Interest scheme remains the most successful of the government backed schemes.
It is the longest-running, is the most widely known and provides both the customer and the Group with an assurance as to the maintenance of at least two years worth of interest payments.
The Group estimates that customers representing approximately 2.2billion of its mortgage exposures are receiving this benefit.
This includes those who are also receiving other treatments for financial difficulty.
124 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Forbearance identification, classification and measurement The Group classifies a retail account as forborne at the time a customer in financial difficulty is granted a concession.
Accounts are classified as forborne only for the period of time which the exposure is known to be, or may still be, in financial difficulty.
Where temporary forbearance is granted, exit criteria are applied to include accounts until they are known to no longer be in financial difficulty.
Details of the exit criteria are shown in the analysis on page126.
Where the treatment involves a permanent change to the contractual basis of the customers account such as a capitalisation of arrears or term extension, the Group classifies the balance as forborne for a period of 24 months, after which no distinction is made between these accounts and others where no change has been made.
Those forborne loans which fall below individual assessment limits are grouped with other assets of similar characteristics and assessed collectively for impairment in accordance with the Group impairment policy detailed in note 2 H. The Groups approach is to ensure that provisioning models, supported by management judgement, appropriately reflect the underlying loss risk of exposures.
The performance and output of models are monitored and challenged on an ongoing basis, in line with the Groups model governance policies.
Customers in financial difficulty receiving support under other schemes The Group measures the success of a forbearance scheme based upon the proportion of customers performing less than or equal to three months in arrears over the 24 months following the exit from a forbearance treatment.
For temporary treatments, 79percent of customers accepting reduced payment arrangements are performing.
For permanent treatments, 82percent of customers who have accepted capitalisations of arrears and 84percent of customers who have accepted term extensions are performing.
Commercial customers Early identification, control and monitoring are key in order to support the customer and protect the Group.
With the exception of small exposures in SME all non-retail exposures in the Commercial Banking and Run-off divisions are reviewed at least annually by the independent Risk Division and more frequently where required.
As part of the Groups established Credit Risk Classification system, every exposure in the good book is categorised as either good or watchlist.
This complements the Groups risk rating tools and is designed to identify and highlight portfolio levels of asset quality as well as individual problem credits.
All watchlist names are reviewed by the business and Risk Division regularly, and the classification is updated if required.
This process seeks to ensure that relationship managers act promptly to identify, and highlight to senior management those customers who have the possibility to become higher risk in the future.
Those customers deemed higher risk where there is cause for concern over future repayment capability or where there is a risk of impairment will lead to the customer being transferred to the Business Support Unit BSU at an early stage.
The over-arching aim of the BSU is to provide support and work consensually with each customer to try and resolve the issues, to restore the business to a financially viable position and thereby bring about a business turnaround.
This may involve a combination of restructuring, work out strategies and other types of forbearance.
BSU case officers manage non-retail distressed assets in Commercial Banking and Run-off divisions, and are part of the independent Risk Division.
They are highly experienced and operate in a closely controlled and monitored environment, including regular oversight and close scrutiny by senior management.
A detailed assessment is undertaken for cases in BSU to assist in reducing and minimising risk exposure and to also highlight potential strategic options.
A range of information is required to fully appraise and understand the customers business, cashflow and therefore debt serviceability and will involve the Group, in addition to using its own internal sector experts, engaging professional advisers to perform asset valuations, strategic reviews and where applicable, independent business reviews.
The assessment may also involve: critically assessing customers ability to successfully manage the business effectively in a distressed situation where turnaround is required: analysis of market sector factors, i. e. products, customers, suppliers, pricing and margin issues: performance review of operational areas that should be considered in terms of current effectiveness and efficiency and scope for improvements: financial analysis to model plans and factor in potential sensitivities, vulnerabilities and upsides: and determining the most appropriate corporate and capital structure suitable for the work-out strategy concerned.
The above assessment, monitoring and control processes continue throughout the period the case is managed within the BSU.
All the analysis performed around cash flows is used to determine appropriate impairment provisions.
The level of Commercial Banking division BSU gross lending to customers reduced from 5.0billion to 4.2billion between 31December 2014 and 31December 2015.
The net reduction of 0.8billion in BSU managed lending in Commercial Banking was driven by returns to mainstream, disposals, write-offs and repayments.
The Groups accounting policy for loan renegotiations is set out in note 2 H on page191.
Income statement information set out in the credit risk tables is on an underlying basis see page40.
Forbearance A key factor in determining whether the Group treats a commercial customer as forborne is the granting of a concession to a borrower who experiences, or is believed to be about to experience, financial difficulty and which is outside the Groups current risk appetite.
Where a concession is granted to a customer that is not in financial difficulty or the risk profile is considered within the Groups current risk appetite, the concession would not be considered to be an act of forbearance.
The Group does not believe forbearance reporting is appropriate for derivatives, available for sale assets and the trading book where assets are marked to market daily.
The Group recognises that forbearance alone is not necessarily an indicator of impaired status, but it is a trigger for the review of the customers credit profile.
If there is any concern over the future cash flows and or the Group incurring a loss, then forborne loans will be classified as impaired in accordance with the Groups impairment policy.
All impaired loans, including recoveries portfolios, are reported as forborne.
Recovery can sometimes be through improvement in market or economic conditions, or the customer may benefit from access to alternative sources of liquidity, such as an equity injection.
These can be especially relevant in real estate or other asset backed transactions where a fire sale of assets in a weak market may be unattractive.
Depending on circumstances and when operated within robust parameters and controls, the Group believes forbearance can help support the customer in the short to medium-term.
The Group expects to have unimpaired forborne assets within its portfolios, where default has been avoided, or when no longer considered impaired, although the majority of these cases will be managed in the BSU, where more intensive management and monitoring is available.
125 Risk management Risk management continued Unimpaired forborne assets are included in calculating the overall collective unidentified impairment provision, which uses the historical observed default rate and loss emergence period of the relevant portfolio as a whole as part of its calculation.
Whilst the material portfolios have been reviewed for forbearance, some non-retail loans and advances in Commercial Banking and Run-Off divisions have not been reviewed on the basis that the level of unimpaired forbearance is relatively immaterial, or because the concept of forbearance is not relevant.
Types of forbearance The Groups strategy and offer of forbearance is largely dependent on the individual situation and early identification, control and monitoring are key to supporting the customer and protecting the Group.
Concessions are often provided to help the customer with their day to day liquidity and working capital.
A number of options are available to the Group where a customer is facing financial difficulty, and each case is treated depending on its own specific circumstances.
For commercial customers, the Group currently looks at forbearance concessions including changes to: Contractual payment terms for example loan maturity extensions, or changes to capital and or interest servicing arrangements, including capital repayment holidays or conversion to interest only terms : and Non-payment contractual terms for example covenant amendments or waivers where the concession enables default to be avoided.
The main types of forbearance concessions to commercial customers in financial difficulty are set out below: Covenants: This includes temporary and permanent waivers, amendment or resetting of non-payment contractual covenants including LTV and interest cover.
The granting of this type of concession in itself would not result in the loan being classified as impaired and the customer is kept under review in the event that further forbearance is necessary: Extensions Alterations: This includes extension and or alteration of repayment terms to a level outside of market or the Groups risk appetite due to the customers inability to make existing contractual repayment terms: amendments to an interest rate to a level considered outside of market or the Groups risk appetite, or other amendments such as changes to capital and or interest servicing arrangements including capital repayment holidays or conversion to interest only terms: and Multiple type of forbearance a combination of the above two.
Forbearance identification, classification and measurement All non-retail loans and advances on the watchlist are further categorised depending on the current and expected credit risk attaching to the customer and the transaction.
All watchlist names are reviewed by the business and independent Risk function regularly, and the classification is updated if required.
Any event that causes concern over future payments is likely to result in the customer being assessed for impairment and, if required, an impairment allowance recognised.
If impairment is identified, the customer is immediately transferred to BSU if not already managed there and the lending will be treated as impaired.
All of a customers impaired loans are treated as forborne as they are considered as having been or will be granted some form of forbearance.
Most impaired loans and advances exist only in the BSU within Commercial Banking division, and Run-off division.
A portfolio approach is taken for SME customers with exposures below 1million managed in BSU.
All customers with exposures below 1million are reported as forborne whilst they are managed by SME BSU whether impaired or unimpaired.
All reviews performed in the good book, BSU within Commercial Banking or in the Run-off division include analysis of latest financial information, a consideration of the market and sector the customer operates in, performance against plan and revised terms and conditions granted as part of the forbearance concession.
Exit from forbearance A customer where forbearance has been granted will remain treated and recorded as forborne until it evidences acceptable performance over a period of time.
This period will depend on a number of factors such as whether the customer is trading in line with its revised plan, it is operating within the new terms and conditions including observation to revised covenants and contractual payments, its financial performance is stable or improving, and there are no undue concerns over its future performance.
As a minimum, this cure period is currently expected to be at least 12 months following a forbearance event.
The exception to this 12 month minimum period is where a permanent structural cure is made for example, an injection of new collateral security or a partial repayment of debt to restore an LTV back to within a covenant.
In this case, the customer may exit forbearance once the permanent cure has been made.
However, notwithstanding this, the overriding requirement for exit from forbearance in all cases is that the customer is not impaired and the reason for the forbearance event is no longer present.
Upon exit from forbearance the customer may be returned to the mainstream good classification.
It is important to note that such a decision can be made only by the independent Risk Division.
126 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Group credit risk portfolio in 2015 Significant reduction in impairments and impaired assets Excluding TSB, the impairment charge decreased by 48 per cent to 568 million in 2015 compared to 1,102 million in 2014.
The impairment charge is lower across all divisions and benefited from provision releases, but at lower levels than seen during 2014.
The reduction reflects lower levels of new impairment as a result of effective risk management, a favourable credit environment, improving UK economic conditions and continued low interest rates.
The asset quality ratio impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers improved to 0.14 per cent compared to 0.23per cent during2014.
At the Group Strategic Update in October 2014, we outlined that although it would be lower between 2015 to 2017, we expect the Group asset quality ratio to be c. 40 basis points through the economic cycle.
In 2016, the Group expects to benefit from its continued disciplined approach to the management of credit and the resilient UK economy.
Write-backs and provision releases, however, are expected to be at a lower level and as a result, the Group expects the asset quality ratio for the 2016 full year to be around 20 basis points.
Impaired loans as a percentage of closing loans and advances reduced to 2.1 per cent at 31 December 2015, from 2.9 per cent at 31 December 2014 driven by reductions within the continuing and run-off portfolios, including the sale of Irish commercial loans during the third quarter.
Provisions as a percentage of impaired loans reduced from 56.4 per cent to 46.1 per cent reflecting the disposal of highly covered assets during the year.
Retail division impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans have increased to 40.4 per cent from 38.8 per cent at 31 December 2014, with Secured increasing by 0.5 percentage points to 37.5 per cent.
Consumer Finance division impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans have increased to 72.8 per cent from 70.5 per cent at 31 December 2014, with Credit Cards increasing by 5.3 percentage points to 81.8 per cent and Asset Finance UK decreasing by 2.8 percentage points to 67.2 per cent.
Low risk culture and prudent risk appetite The Group is delivering sustainable lending growth by maintaining its lower risk origination discipline and underwriting standards despite terms and conditions in some of the Groups markets being impacted by increased competition.
The overall quality of the portfolio has improved over the last 12months.
Credit performance of the UK Retail secured portfolio has been good, with improvements in LTVs, arrears, impaired loans and impairment charge on both Mainstream and Buy-to-let portfolios.
Loans and advances to mainstream customers were broadly flat during the year at 227.3 billion with the Buy-to-let portfolio growing by 4per cent to 55.6 billion.
The closed specialist portfolio has continued to run-off, reducing by 10per cent to 19.5billion.
The Groups UK Direct Real Estate gross lending defined internally as exposure which is directly supported by cash flows from property activities at 31December 2015 in Commercial Banking, Wealth within Retail division and Run-off divisions was 19.5 billion 31 December 2014: gross 21.6billion.
The portfolio continues to reduce significantly, and the higher risk Run-off element of the book has reduced from gross 3.3 billion to gross 1.1billion during 2015.
The remaining gross lending of 18.4 billion 31 December 2014: 18.3billion is the lower risk element in Commercial Banking and Wealth, where the Group continues to write new business within conservative risk appetite parameters.
Our Commercial Banking portfolios continue to benefit from our robust focus on credit at origination and our through the cycle risk appetite.
Sector concentrations within the lending portfolios are closely monitored and controlled, with mitigating actions taken.
Sector and product caps limit exposure to certain higher risk sectors and asset classes.
The Groups extensive and thorough credit processes and controls ensure effective risk management, including early identification and management of potential concern customers and counterparties.
Re-shaping of the Group is substantially complete The run-off portfolio has materially reduced through fide-risking and the strategic desire to exit the residual portfolio still remains.
There was a 38per cent reduction in gross loans and advances in 2015 to 11,422 million 31 December 2014: 18,316million.
Run-off net external assets have reduced from 16,857 million to 12,154 million during 2015.
The portfolio now represents only 2.3 per cent of the overall Groups loans and advances 31December 2014: 3.0 per cent.
Table 1.5: Group impairment charge 2015 Debt securities Loans and classified as  to loans and sale financial Other credit customers receivables assets risk provisions Total 2014 Change m m m m m m % Retail 432 432 599 28 Commercial Banking 9 31 22 83 Consumer Finance 152 152 215 29 Run-off 28 2 4 22 8 203 96 Central items 2 2 2 Total impairment charge excluding TSB 621 2 4 55 568 1,102 48 TSB 98 Total impairment charge 568 1,200 53 Impairment charge as a % of 1 average advances 0.14% 0.23% 9 bps 1 Excludes TSB.
127 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.6: Movement in gross impaired loans 2015 Commercial Consumer 2014 Retail Banking Finance Run-off TSB Total Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 4,927 3,241 720 5,215 205 14,308 32,259 Classified as impaired during the year 2,008 631 179 583 3,401 4,825 Transferred to not impaired during the year 1,080 146 72 60 1,358 4,526 Repayments 831 693 68 137 1,729 3,075 Amounts written off 523 225 107 648 1,503 7,004 Impact of disposal of business and asset sales 3 48 55 3,092 205 3,403 7,288 Exchange and other movements 4 232 54 164 126 883 At 31 December 4,494 2,528 543 2,025 9,590 14,308 Table 1.7: Group impaired loans and provisions Impairment Loans and Impaired loans provision as % advances to Impaired as % of closing Impairment of impaired 1 2 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31December 2015 Retail 316,036 4,494 1.4 1,670 40.4 Commercial Banking 102,435 2,528 2.5 1,087 43.0 Consumer Finance 23,938 543 2.3 265 72.8 Run-off 11,422 2,025 17.7 1,150 56.8 TSB 3 Reverse repos and other items 5,798 Total gross lending 459,629 9,590 2.1 4,172 46.1 Impairment provisions 4,172 4 Fair value adjustments 282 Total Group 455,175 At 31December 2014 Retail 317,347 4,927 1.6 1,734 38.8 Commercial Banking 102,459 3,241 3.2 1,594 49.2 Consumer Finance 21,273 720 3.4 309 70.5 Run-off 18,316 5,215 28.5 3,927 75.3 TSB 21,729 205 0.9 88 42.9 3 Reverse repos and other items 9,635 Total gross lending 490,759 14,308 2.9 7,652 56.4 Impairment provisions 7,652 4 Fair value adjustments 403 Total Group 482,704 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding Retail and Consumer Finance loans in recoveries 31 December 2015: 335 million in Retail Loans and Overdrafts, 28 million in Retail other and 179 million in Consumer Finance credit cards: 31 December 2014: 437 million in Retail loans and overdrafts, 26 million in Retail other and 282 million in Consumer Finance Credit Cards.
3 Includes 5.7 billion 31 December 2014: 4.4 billion of lower risk loans sold by Commercial Banking and Retail to Insurance to back annuitant liabilities.
4 The fair value adjustments relating to loans and advances were made on the acquisition of HBOS to reflect the fair value of the acquired assets and took into account both the expected losses and market liquidity at the date of acquisition.
The unwind relating to future impairment losses requires management judgement to assess whether the losses incurred in the current period were expected at the date of the acquisition and assessing whether the remaining losses expected at the date of the acquisition will still be incurred.
The element relating to market liquidity unwinds to the income statement over the estimated expected lives of the related assets until 2014 for commercial loans and 2018 for retail loans although if an asset is written-off or suffers previously unexpected impairment then this element of the fair value will no longer be considered a timing difference liquidity but permanent impairment.
The fair value unwind in respect of impairment losses incurred was 97 million for the period ended 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 251 million.
The fair value unwind in respect of loans and advances is expected to continue to decrease in future years as fixed-rate periods on mortgages expire, loans are repaid or written-off, and will reduce to zero over time.
128 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Table 1.8: Derivative credit risk exposures 2015 2014 Traded over the counter Traded over the counter Traded on Settled Not settled Traded on Not settled recognised by central by central recognised Settled by central by central exchanges counterparties counterparties Total exchanges counterparties counterparties Total m m m m m m m m Notional balances Foreign exchange 6,568 383,722 390,290 456,215 456,215 Interest rate 31,128 3,598,307 791,351 4,420,786 82,201 5,768,373 972,531 6,823,105 Equity and other 4,837 9,337 14,174 4,808 10,034 14,842 Credit 4,566 4,566 18,063 18,063 Total 42,533 3,598,307 1,188,976 4,829,816 87,009 5,768,373 1,456,843 7,312,225 Fair values Assets 103 28,811 127 35,322 Liabilities 131 26,149 117 32,988 Net asset 28 2,662 10 2,334 The total notional principle amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and equity and other contracts outstanding at 31 December 2015 and 31December 2014 is shown in the table above.
The notional principle amount does not, however, represent the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group.
Such amounts are reflected in note 53 on page266.
Retail The impairment charge was 432 million in 2015, a decrease of 28percent against 2014.
The decrease reflects continued low risk underwriting discipline, strong portfolio management and a favourable credit environment with low unemployment, increasing house prices and continued low interest rates.
The impairment charge, as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers, improved to 14 basis points in 2015 from 19 basis points in 2014.
Impaired loans decreased by 433 million to 4,494 million, which represented 1.4percent of closing loans and advances to customers at 31December 2015 31December 2014: 1.6 per cent.
Retail Division Impairment coverage has increased to 40.4 per cent from 38.8 per cent at the end of 2014, with Secured coverage increasing 0.5percent to 37.5 per cent.
Table 1.9: Retail impairment charge 2015 2014 Change m m % Secured 98 281 65 Loans and overdrafts 311 279 11 Wealth 2 8 75 Retail Business Banking 21 31 32 Total impairment charge 432 599 28 Impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.14% 0.19% 5 bps 129 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.10: Retail impaired loans and provisions Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % provisions as a advances to Impaired of closing Impairment % of impaired 1 2 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2015 Secured 302,413 3,818 1.3 1,431 37.5 Loans and overdrafts: Collections 243 197 81.8 3 Recoveries 335 9,917 578 5.8 197 81.1 Wealth 2,811 55 2.0 23 41.8 Retail Business Banking: Collections 15 19 3 Recoveries 28 895 43 4.8 19 126.7 Total gross lending 316,036 4,494 1.4 1,670 40.4 Impairment provisions 1,670 Fair value adjustments 273 Total 314,093 At 31December 2014 Secured 303,121 3,911 1.3 1,446 37.0 Loans and overdrafts: Collections 258 220 85.3 3 Recoveries 437 10,395 695 6.7 220 85.3 Wealth 2,962 270 9.1 40 14.8 Retail Business Banking: Collections 25 28 3 Recoveries 26 869 51 5.9 28 112.0 Total gross lending 317,347 4,927 1.6 1,734 38.8 Impairment provisions 1,734 Fair value adjustments 392 Total 315,221 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding unsecured loans in recoveries.
3 Recoveries assets are written down to the present value of future expected cash flows on these assets.
Secured The impairment charge was 98 million, a decrease of 65 per cent against 2014.
The impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers, improved to 3 basis points from 9 basis points in 2014.
Loans and advances to Mainstream customers were broadly flat during the year at 227.3billion with the Buy-to-let portfolio growing by 4per cent to 55.6billion.
The closed Specialist portfolio has continued to run-off, reducing by 10 per cent to 19.5billion.
Impaired loans reduced by 93 million in 2015 to 3,818 million at 31December 2015 with reductions in both the Mainstream and Buy-to-let portfolios.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 37.5 per cent from 37.0 per cent at 31 December 2014.
The value of mortgages greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions decreased by 439 million to 5,905 million at 31 December 2015 31December 2014: 6,344 million, with reductions in both the Mainstream and Buy-to-let portfolios.
The average indexed loan to value LTV of the residential mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2015 decreased to 46.1 per cent compared with 49.2 per cent at 31 December 2014.
The percentage of closing loans and advances with an indexed LTV in excess of 100 per cent decreased to 1.1 per cent at 31December 2015, compared with 2.2 per cent at 31 December 2014.
The average LTV for new residential mortgages written in 2015 was 64.7 per cent compared with 64.8 per cent for 2014.
Loans and overdrafts The impairment charge was 311 million, an increase of 11 per cent against 2014.
The impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers, increased to 3.0 per cent in 2015 from 2.6 per cent in 2014.
Impaired loans reduced by 117 million in 2015 to 578 million representing 5.8 per cent of closing loans and advances to customers, compared with 6.7 per cent at 31 December 2014.
130 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Table 1.11: Retail secured and unsecured loans and advances to customers At At 31 Dec 2015 31Dec 2014 m m Secured: Mainstream 227,267 228,176 Buy-to-let 55,598 53,322 1 Specialist 19,548 21,623 302,413 303,121 Loans and overdrafts: Loans 7,889 8,204 Overdrafts 2,028 2,191 9,917 10,395 Wealth 2,811 2,962 Retail Business Banking 895 869 Total gross lending 316,036 317,347 1 Specialist lending has been closed to new business since 2009.
The stock of repossessions decreased to 654 cases at 31December 2015 compared to 1,740 cases at 31December 2014.
Interest only mortgages The Group provides interest only mortgages to customers, whereby payments of interest only are made for the term of the mortgage, with the customer responsible for repaying the principal outstanding at the end of the loan term.
Retail has reduced its exposure to owner occupier interest only mortgages throughout 2015.
New owner occupier interest only mortgages are limited to a maximum loan to value of 75percent, with a verifiable repayment vehicle sufficient to repay the loan.
Interest only mortgages represented 0.1percent of new residential mortgages in 2015 0.1percent in 2014.
Table 1.14: Analysis of owner occupier interest-only mortgages 2015 2014 1 Interest only balances m 81,558 90,649 Impaired Loans m 2,071 2,012 Interest only balances as a % of owner occupier balances 33.9 37.2 Average loan to value % 46.6 51.0 1 In addition the Group has Buy-to-let interest only balances of 49,751 million 2014: 47,761 million and certain other interest only balances of 3,705 million 2014: 4,153 million.
For existing interest only mortgages, a contact strategy is in place throughout the term of the mortgage to ensure that customers are aware of their obligations to repay the principal upon maturity of the loan.
The weighted average term to maturity of the interest only balances included in the table above is 11 years: the profile of owner occupier interest only maturities is shown below.
Table 1.15: Analysis of owner occupier interest-only mortgages maturities 1 Year 2-5 Years 6-10 Years 11 Years bn bn bn bn 1 Value of loans as at 31December2015 2.0 9.1 14.5 45.2 1 Value of loans as at 31December2014 1.8 9.2 14.6 52.7 1 Excludes mortgage accounts which consist of partial interest only and partial capital repayment.
132 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Treatment strategies exist to help customers who may not be able to fully repay the principal balance at maturity.
Of the owner occupier interest only mortgages that have missed the payment of principal at the end of term, balances of 1,313million remain at 31December 2015 1,117million at 31December 2014.
The average indexed loan to value of these accounts is 28.0percent at 31December 2015 28.7percent at 31December 2014.
Of these accounts, 9.1percent are impaired 8.4percent at 31December 2014.
Forborne loans At 31December 2015, UK secured loans and advances currently or recently subject to forbearance were 1.0percent 31December 2014: 1.4percent of total UK secured loans and advances.
The reduction in forbearance is due to the overall improvement of credit quality in the portfolio.
Loans and overdrafts currently or recently subject to forbearance were 1.5percent 31December 2014: 1.6percent of total loans and overdrafts.
Further analysis of the forborne loan balances is set out below: Table 1.16: UK retail forborne loans and advances audited Impairment provisions Total loans and advances which Total forborne loans and as % of loans and advances 1 1 1 are forborne advances which are impaired which are forborne 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m % % UK secured lending: Temporary forbearance arrangements 2 Reduced contractual monthly payment 146 29 6.0 3 Reduced payment arrangements 414 552 41 69 4.2 3.4 414 698 41 98 4.2 4.0 Permanent treatments 4 Repair and term extensions 2,688 3,696 132 168 4.2 3.5 Total 3,102 4,394 173 266 4.2 3.5 5 Loans and overdrafts : 147 162 119 139 40.0 39.4 1 Includes accounts where the customer is currently benefiting from a forbearance treatment or the treatment has recently ended.
2 Includes temporary interest-only arrangements and short-term payment holidays granted in collections where the customer is currently benefiting from the treatment and where the concession has ended within the previous six months temporary interest-only and previous 12 months short-term payment holidays.
3 Includes customers who had an arrangement to pay less than the contractual amount at 31 December or where an arrangement ended within the previous three months.
4 Includes capitalisation of arrears and term extensions which commenced during the previous 24 months and where the borrowers remain as customers at 31 December.
5 Includes temporary treatments where the customer is currently benefiting from the change or the treatment has ended within the previous six months.
Permanent changes which commenced during the last 24 months for existing customers as at 31 December are also included.
UK secured forborne loans and advances have reduced by 1,292million in 2015 to 3,102million, driven primarily by an improvement in the underlying quality of the portfolio, with a greater value exiting forbearance than entering.
Loans and Overdrafts forborne loans and advances have reduced by 15million in 2015.
Further analysis of the movements in UK retail lending forborne loans and advances during the year is as follows: Table 1.17: Movement in UK retail forborne loans and advances audited 2015 2014 Loans and Loans and Secured Overdrafts Secured Overdrafts lending lending lending lending m m m m At 1 January 4,394 162 6,153 191 Classified as forborne during the year 1,290 69 1,805 123 Written-off sold 25 55 93 77 Good exit from forbearance 2,252 25 2,957 35 Redeemed or repaid 263 6 462 10 Exchange and other movements 42 2 52 30 At 31 December 3,102 147 4,394 162 Commercial Banking There was a net impairment release of 22 million in 2015, compared to a charge of 83 million in 2014.
This has been driven by lower levels of new impairment as a result of effective risk management, improving UK economic conditions and the continued low interest rate environment: as well as write backs and provision releases, but at lower levels than seen during 2014.
The credit quality of the portfolio and new business remains good.
Surplus market liquidity continues to lead to some relaxation of credit conditions in the marketplace, although the Group remains disciplined within its low risk appetite approach.
Impaired loans reduced by 22 per cent to 2,528 million at 31 December 2015 compared with 31 December 2014 3,241 million and as a percentage of closing loans and advances reduced to 2.5 per cent from 3.2 per cent at 31 December 2014.
Impairment provisions reduced to 1,087million at 31 December 2015 December 2014: 1,594 million and includes collective unidentified impairment provisions of 229million 31December 2014: 338million.
Provisions as a percentage of impaired loans reduced from 49.2 per cent to 43.0 per cent, predominantly due to the change in the mix of impaired assets during 2015, with newly impaired connections having lower coverage levels compared 133 Risk management Risk management continued to the portfolio average.
The decrease is also partly due to the reduction in the collective unidentified impairment provisions fund during the year as a result of improved conditions.
The Group expects to benefit from its continued disciplined approach to the management of credit, and sustained UK economic growth.
Nevertheless, market volatility and the uncertain global economic outlook such as the continued slowdown in Chinese economic growth and the fall in commodity prices may impact the Commercial portfolios.
The Group manages and limits exposure to certain sectors and asset classes, and closely monitors credit quality, sector and single name concentrations.
This together with our conservative through the cycle risk appetite approach, means our portfolios are well positioned.
Table 1.18: Commercial Banking impairment charge 2015 2014 Change m m % SME 22 15 Other 68 Total impairment release charge 22 83 1 Impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.01% 0.08% 7 bps 1 In respect of loans and advances to customers.
Table 1.19: Commercial Banking impaired loans and provisions Impairment Impaired loans provisions Loans and as a % of as a % of advances to Impaired closing Impairment impaired 1 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2015 SME 29,393 1,149 3.9 213 18.5 Other 73,042 1,379 1.9 874 63.4 Total gross lending 102,435 2,528 2.5 1,087 43.0 Reverse repos Impairment provisions 1,087 Total 101,348 At 31December 2014 SME 28,256 1,546 5.5 398 25.7 Other 74,203 1,695 2.3 1,196 70.6 Total gross lending 102,459 3,241 3.2 1,594 49.2 Reverse repos 5,145 Impairment provisions 1,594 Total 106,010 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
SME The SME Banking portfolio continues to grow within prudent credit risk appetite parameters.
Portfolio credit quality has remained stable or improved across all key metrics.
There was a net impairment release of 22 million compared to a net charge of 15 million in 2014 with lower new impairment offset by writebacks and releases.
Other Commercial Banking Other Commercial Banking comprises 73,042 million of gross loans and advances to customers in Mid Markets, Global Corporates and Financial Institutions.
In the Mid Markets portfolio, credit quality has remained stable.
The portfolio is focused on UK businesses and dependent on the performance of the domestic economy and to some extent, the global economy.
The oil and gas services element of the portfolio has been reviewed given ongoing low oil prices and this review has not revealed any material concerns with portfolio quality at this time.
The Global Corporate business continues to have a predominance of investment grade clients, primarily UK based.
As a result of this profile, allied to our conservative risk appetite, our portfolio remains of good quality despite the current global economic headwinds particularly relating to the energy and mining sectors.
We continue to monitor the portfolio closely to ensure there is no material deterioration.
The real estate business within the Groups Mid Markets and Global Corporate portfolio is focused on clients operating in the UK commercial property market ranging in size from medium sized private real estate entities up to publicly listed property companies.
The market for UK real estate has been buoyant and credit quality remains good with minimal impairments stressed loans.
All asset classes are attracting investment but, recognising this is a cyclical sector, appropriate caps are in place to control exposure and business propositions continue to be written in line with prudent risk appetite with conservative LTV, strong quality of income and proven management teams.
Financial Institutions serves predominantly investment grade counterparties with whom relationships are either client focused or held to support the Groups funding, liquidity or general hedging requirements.
134 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Trading exposures continue to be predominantly short-term and or collateralised with inter-bank activity mainly undertaken with acceptable investment grade counterparties.
The Group continues to adopt a conservative stance across the Eurozone maintaining close portfolio scrutiny and oversight particularly given the current macro environment and horizon risks.
Commercial Banking UK Direct Real Estate LTV analysis The Group classifies Direct Real Estate as exposure which is directly supported by cash flows from property activities as opposed to trading activities such as hotels, care homes and housebuilders.
The Group manages its exposures to Direct Real Estate across a number of different coverage segments.
Approximately 70per cent of loans and advances to UK Direct Real Estate relate to commercial real estate with the remainder residential real estate.
The Group makes use of a variety of methodologies to assess the value of property collateral, where external valuations are not available.
These include use of market indices, models and subject matter expert judgement.
The LTV profile of the UK Direct Real Estate portfolio in Commercial Banking continues to improve.
Also excludes Social Housing and Housebuilder lending.
Forborne loans Commercial Banking forbearance At 31 December 2015, 3,514 million 31December 2014: 5,137 million of total loans and advances were forborne of which 2,528 million 31December 2014: 3,241 million were impaired.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of forborne loans and advances decreased marginally from 31.0 per cent at 31 December 2014 to 30.9 per cent at 31 December 2015.
Table 1.21: Commercial Banking forborne loans and advances audited Impairment provisions as % of Total loans and advances which loans and advances which are are forborne forborne 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m % % Impaired 2,528 3,241 43.0 49.2 Unimpaired 986 1,896 Total 3,514 5,137 30.9 31.0 All impaired assets are considered forborne.
135 Risk management Risk management continued Impaired loans and advances The movements in Commercial Banking impaired forborne loans and advances were as follows: Table 1.22: Movement in Commercial Banking impaired forborne loans and advances audited 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 3,241 5,047 Classified as impaired during the year: Exposures 5m 505 775 Exposures 5m 126 188 631 963 Transferred to unimpaired: Exposures 5m but still reported as forborne 15 268 Exposures 5m no longer reported as forborne 20 Exposures 5m 111 477 146 745 Written-off 225 719 Asset disposal sales of impaired assets 48 357 Drawdowns repayments 693 732 Exchange and other movements 232 216 At 31 December 2,528 3,241 Unimpaired loans and advances Unimpaired forborne loans and advances were 986million at 31 December 2015 31December 2014: 1,896 million.
The table below sets out the largest unimpaired forborne loans and advances to Commercial Banking customers exposures over 5million as at 31December 2015 by type of forbearance: Table 1.23: Commercial Banking unimpaired forborne loans and advances audited 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Exposures 5 million: Covenants 310 1,018 Extensions alterations 350 426 Multiple 9 6 669 1,450 Exposures 5 million 317 446 Total 986 1,896 1 Table 1.24: Movement in Commercial Banking unimpaired forborne loans and advances 5m audited 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 1,450 1,654 Classified as impaired during the year 141 147 Cured no longer forborne 655 1,004 Classified as forborne during the year 156 709 2 Transferred from impaired but still reported as forborne 15 743 Asset disposal sales 451 Net drawdowns repayments 153 6 Exchange and other movements 3 48 At 31 December 669 1,450 1 Balances exclude intra-year movements.
2 2014 included 475 million in respect of two loans transferred from Run-off.
136 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Consumer Finance The impairment charge reduced by 29 per cent to 152 million from 215 million in 2014.
The reduction was driven by a continued underlying improvement of portfolio quality supported by an increased level of write-backs from the sale of recoveries assets in the Credit Cards portfolio.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans have increased to 72.8 per cent from 70.5 per cent at 31 December 2014, with Credit Cards increasing by 5.3 percentage points to 81.8 per cent and Asset Finance UK decreasing by 2.8 percentage points to 67.2 per cent.
Loans and advances increased by 2,665 million to 23,938 million during 2015.
The growth was achieved in both Asset Finance UK and Credit Cards portfolio with no relaxation in risk appetite and underwriting standards.
Impaired loans decreased by 177 million in 2015 to 543million which represented 2.3per cent of closing loans and advances to customers 31 December 2014: 3.4 per cent.
Table 1.25: Consumer Finance impairment charge 2015 2014 Change m m % Credit Cards 129 186 31 Asset Finance UK 22 30 27 Asset Finance Europe 1 1 Total impairment charge 152 215 29 Impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.68% 1.05% 37 bps Table 1.26: Consumer Finance impaired loans and provisions Impairment Impaired provisions Loans and loans as a % as a % of advances to Impaired of closing Impairment impaired 1 2 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2015 Credit Cards: Collections 187 153 81.8 3 Recoveries 179 9,425 366 3.9 153 81.8 Asset Finance UK 9,582 134 1.4 90 67.2 Asset Finance Europe 4,931 43 0.9 22 51.2 14,513 177 1.2 112 63.3 23,938 543 2.3 265 72.8 Impairment provisions 265 Fair value adjustments 9 Total 23,664 At 31December 2014 Credit Cards: Collections 217 166 76.5 3 Recoveries 282 9,119 499 5.5 166 76.5 Asset Finance UK 7,204 160 2.2 112 70.0 Asset Finance Europe 4,950 61 1.2 31 50.8 12,154 221 1.8 143 64.7 21,273 720 3.4 309 70.5 Impairment provisions 309 Fair value adjustments 30 Total 20,934 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
3 Recoveries assets are written down to the present value of expected cash flows on these assets.
137 Risk management Risk management continued Forborne loans At 31December 2015, Consumer Credit Card loans and advances currently or recently subject to forbearance were 2.4percent 31December 2014: 2.6percent of total Consumer Credit Card loans and advances.
At 31December 2015, Asset Finance UK Retail loans and advances on open portfolios currently or recently subject to forbearance were 1.4percent 31December 2014: 2.1percent of total Asset Finance UK Retail loans and advances.
Further analysis of the forborne loans and advances is set out below: Table 1.27: Consumer Finance forborne loans and advances audited Impairment provisions Total loans and advances which Total forborne loans and as % of loans and advances 1 1 1 are forborne advances which are impaired which are forborne 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m % % 2 Consumer Credit Cards 225 234 120 140 26.8 29.1 2 Asset Finance UK Retail 100 109 51 53 25.5 20.5 1 Includes accounts where the customer is currently benefiting from a forbearance treatment or the treatment recently ended.
2 Includes temporary treatments where the customer is currently benefiting from the change or the treatment has ended within the last six months.
Consumer Credit Cards and Asset Finance UK Retail forborne loans have reduced in 2015 by 9million and 9million respectively, driven primarily by improvements in the underlying quality of the portfolios.
The movements in forborne loans and advances during the year were as follows: Table 1.28: Movement in Consumer Finance forborne loans and advances audited 2015 2014 Consumer Asset Consumer Asset credit cards Finance credit cards Finance m m m m At 1 January 234 109 326 149 Classified as forborne during the year 108 61 128 56 Written off sold 48 14 93 25 Good exit from forbearance 36 17 92 19 Redeemed or repaid 9 19 14 26 Exchange and other movements 24 20 21 26 At 31 December 225 100 234 109 Run-off With the exception of a small residual book 37 million of which 5million is impaired, the Irish Wholesale book which contained the Commercial Real Estate portfolio, is now effectively exited following completion of the divestment announced on 30July 2015.
The Ireland Retail portfolio has reduced from 4,464million at 31December 2014 to 4,040 million at 31 December 2015.
The Corporate real estate and other corporate portfolio has continued to reduce significantly ahead of expectations.
Net loans and advances reduced by 1,908million, from 3,036 million to 1,128 million for 2015.
Net loans and advances for the specialist finance asset based run-off portfolio stood at 4,001 million at 31 December 2015 gross 4,190 million, and include Ship Finance, Aircraft Finance and Infrastructure, with around half of the remaining lending in the lower risk leasing sector.
Including the reducing Treasury Asset Legacy investment portfolio, and operating losses, total net external assets reduced to 5,552 million at 31December 2015 gross 5,742 million.
Ireland retail loans and advances with an indexed LTV in excess of 100 per cent decreased to 1,269million 31.4 per cent at 31December 2015, compared with 1,737million 38.9per cent at 31December 2014.
Of this amount 71million were impaired 31 December 2014: 78million.
Table 1.29: Run-off impairment charge 2015 2014 Change m m % Ireland retail 5 6 17 Ireland commercial real estate 11 67 84 Ireland corporate 61 247 75 Corporate real estate and other corporate 21 28 Specialist finance 45 22 Other 35 99 65 Total 8 203 96 1 Impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.20% 0.64% 44 bps 1 In respect of loans and advances to customers.
138 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Table 1.30: Run-off impaired loans and provisions Impairment Impaired provisions loans as a % as a % of Advances to Impaired of closing Impairment impaired customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31December 2015 Ireland retail 4,040 132 3.3 120 90.9 Ireland commercial real estate 8 5 62.5 Ireland corporate 29 Corporate real estate and other corporate 1,873 1,410 75.3 745 52.8 Specialist finance 4,190 361 8.6 189 52.4 Other 1,282 117 9.1 96 82.1 11,422 2,025 17.7 1,150 56.8 Impairment provisions 1,150 Fair value adjustments Total 10,272 At 31December 2014 Ireland retail 4,464 120 2.7 141 117.5 Ireland commercial real estate 1,797 1,659 92.3 1,385 83.5 Ireland corporate 1,639 1,393 85.0 1,095 78.6 Corporate real estate and other corporate 3,947 1,548 39.2 911 58.9 Specialist finance 4,835 364 7.5 254 69.8 Other 1,634 131 8.0 141 107.6 18,316 5,215 28.5 3,927 75.3 Impairment provisions 3,927 Fair value adjustments 19 Total 14,408 Forborne loans Run-off Ireland retail lending At 31 December 2015, 169 million or 4.2 per cent 31 December 2014: 280 million or 6.3 per cent of Irish retail secured loans and advances were subject to current or recent forbearance.
Of this amount 26 million 31 December 2014: 41 million were impaired.
Run-off Corporate real estate, other corporate and Specialist Finance At 31 December 2015 1,780 million 31 December 2014: 1,998 million of total loans and advances were forborne of which 1,771 million 31December 2014: 1,912 million were impaired.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of forborne loans and advances decreased from 58.3 per cent at 31December 2014 to 52.5per cent at 31December 2015.
Unimpaired forborne loans and advances were 9 million at 31December 2015 31December 2014: 86 million.
139 Risk management Risk management continued Impaired loans and advances The movements in Run-off corporate real estate, other corporate and Specialist Finance impaired forborne loans and advances were as follows: Table 1.31: Movement in Run-off corporate real estate, other corporate and Specialist Finance impaired forborne loans and advances audited 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 1,912 9,499 Classified as impaired during the year: Exposures 5m 414 557 Exposures 5m 11 46 425 603 Transferred to unimpaired but still reported as forborne during the year: 1 Exposures 5m 13 961 Exposures 5m 11 12 24 973 Write offs 238 2,565 Asset disposal sales of impaired assets 763 4,363 Drawdowns repayments 19 248 Exchange and other movements 478 41 At 31 December 1,771 1,912 1 2014 included 475 million in respect of two loans classified as impaired during the year and subsequently transferred to Commercial Banking.
Run-off Ireland commercial real estate and corporate All loans and advances whether impaired or unimpaired are treated as forborne.
At 31 December 2015, 37 million 31 December 2014: 3,436 million of total loans and advances were forborne of which 5 million 31 December 2014: 3,052 million were impaired.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of forborne loans and advances decreased from 72.2per cent at 31December 2014 to nil at 31December 2015.
The movements in forborne loans and advances were: Table 1.32: Movement in Run-off: Ireland commercial real estate and corporate forborne loans and advances audited 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 3,436 9,430 Write-offs 419 2,589 Asset disposal sales 2,563 1,444 Drawdowns repayments 99 1,413 Exchange and other movements 318 548 At 31 December 37 3,436 Eurozone exposures The following section summarises the Groups direct exposure to Eurozone countries at 31December 2015.
The exposures comprise on-balance sheet exposures based on their balance sheet carrying values and off-balance sheet exposures, and are based on the country of domicile of the counterparty unless otherwise indicated.
The Group manages its exposures to individual countries through authorised country limits which take into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
In addition, the Group manages its direct risks to the selected countries by establishing and monitoring risk limits for individual banks, financial institutions, corporates and individuals.
Identified indirect exposure information, where available is also taken into account when setting limits and determining credit risk appetite for individual counterparties.
This forms part of the Groups credit analysis undertaken at least annually for counterparty and sector reviews, with interim updates performed as necessary.
Interim updates would usually be triggered by specific credit events such as rating downgrades, sovereign events or other developments such as spread widening.
Examples of indirect risk which have been identified, where information is available, are: European Banking groups with lending and other exposures to certain Eurozone Countries: corporate customers with operations or significant trade in certain European jurisdictions: major travel operators known to operate in certain Eurozone Countries: and international banks with custodian operations based in certain European locations.
140 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Group Financial Stability Forum GFSF monitors developments within the Eurozone, carries out stress testing through detailed scenario analysis and completes appropriate due diligence on the Groups exposures.
The GFSF has carried out a number of scenario analyses and rehearsals to test the Groups resilience in the event of further instability in certain Eurozone countries.
The Group has developed and refined pre-determined action plans that would be executed in such scenarios.
The plans set out governance requirements and responsibilities for the key actions which would be carried out and cover risk areas such as payments, liquidity and capital, communications, suppliers and systems, legal, credit, delivery channels and products, employees and the impact on customers.
Exposures to Eurozone countries are detailed in the following tables and are based on balance sheet exposures, net of provisions.
Derivative balances are included within exposures to financial institutions or corporates, as appropriate, at fair value adjusted for master netting agreements at obligor level and net of cash collateral in line with legal agreements.
Exposures in respect of reverse repurchase agreements are included on a gross IFRS basis and are disclosed based on the counterparty rather than the collateral repos and stock lending are excluded : reverse repurchase exposures are not, therefore, reduced as a result of collateral held.
Reverse repurchase exposures to Institutional funds secured by UK Gilts are excluded from all Eurozone exposures as detailed in the footnotes.
Exposures to central clearing counterparties are shown net.
For multi-country asset backed securities exposures, the Group has reported exposures based on the largest country exposure.
The country of exposure for asset backed securities is based on the location of the underlying assets which are predominantly residential mortgages not on the domicile of theissuer.
For Insurance, the Group has reported shareholder exposures i. e. where the Group is directly exposed to risk of loss.
These shareholder exposures relate to direct investments where the issuer is resident in the named Eurozone country and the credit rating is consistent with the tight credit criteria defined under the appropriate investment mandate.
Insurance also has interests in two funds domiciled in Ireland Global Liquidity Fund and the Investment Cash Fund where, in line with the investment mandates, cash is invested in short term financial instruments.
For these funds, the exposure is analysed on a look through basis to the country risk of the obligors of the underlying assets rather than treating the insurance holding in the funds as exposure toIreland.
Exposures to selected Eurozone countries The Group continues to have minimal exposure, in aggregate, which could be considered to be direct recourse to the sovereign risk of the selectedcountries.
Table 1.33: Selected Eurozone exposures Sovereign debt Direct Cash at Asset Financial institutions sovereign central backed Insurance 1 exposures banks Banks Other securities Corporate Personal assets Total m m m m m m m m m At 31December2015 Ireland 748 445 87 731 3,921 5,932 Spain 77 102 870 39 9 1,097 Portugal 7 86 6 99 Italy 32 51 73 156 Greece 1 1 864 547 87 1,739 3,966 82 7,285 At 31December 2014 Ireland 359 115 1,672 4,325 6,471 Spain 57 116 1,160 49 13 1,395 Portugal 9 5 133 6 153 Italy 354 5 93 34 486 Greece 3 3 779 126 115 3,061 4,380 47 8,508 1 Excludes reverse repurchase exposure to Institutional funds domiciled in Ireland secured by UK gilts of 11,267 million 2014: 10,456 million on a gross basis.
Environmental risk management The Group ensures appropriate management of the environmental impact of its lending activities.
The Groupwide credit risk principles require all credit risk to be incurred with due regard to environmental legislation and the Groups Code of Business Responsibility.
Within Commercial Banking, an electronic environmental risk screening system has been the primary mechanism for assessing environmental risk in lending transactions.
This system provides screening of location specific and sector based risks that may be present in a transaction.
Identified risk results in the transaction referred to the Groups expert in-house environmental risk team for further review and assessment, as outlined below.
Where required, the Groups panel of environmental consultants provide additional expert support.
The Group provides colleague training in environmental risk management as part of the standard suite of credit risk courses.
Supporting this training, a range of online resource is available to colleagues and includes environmental risk theory, procedural guidance, and information on environmental legislation and sector-specific environmental impacts.
The Group has been a signatory to the Equator Principles since 2006 and has adopted and applied the expanded scope of Equator Principles III.
The Equator Principles support the Groups approach to assessing and managing environmental and social issues in Project Finance, Project-Related Corporate loans and Bridge loans.
Further information is contained within the Groups Responsible Business Review http: www.
com our-group responsible-business our-approach managing-risk.
Table 1.35: Environmental risk management approach Group credit principles Initial transaction Environmental Environmental risk Detailed review Environmental Risk screening due diligence approval Relationship In-house team, Panel including any Credit policies teams retained consultants conditions consultancy Business unit processes Sector briefings Supporting tools Legislation briefings 142 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CONDUCT RISK Definition Conduct risk is defined as the risk of customer detriment or regulatory censure and or a reduction in earnings value, through financial or reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment or business conduct.
Risk appetite The Groups conduct risk appetite is designed to safeguard customers from systemic unfair outcomes and is monitored through a number of key metrics with defined limits and triggers which are reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
The metrics and their outputs are regularly assessed by Executive and Board Risk committees to ensure that the Group operates within appetite policies, processes and standards.
These are in place to provide a framework for businesses and colleagues to operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes, which apply to the Group and its activities.
For further information on risk appetite refer to page112.
Exposures Conduct risk affects all aspects of the Groups operations, all types of customers and other stakeholders.
The Group faces significant conduct risks, for example, through products or services not meeting the needs of its customers: sales processes resulting in poor advice: failure to deal with a customers complaint effectively where the Group has not met customer expectations, which may lead to a referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service: or engaging in conduct which disrupts the fair and effective operation of a market in which it is active.
Given the high level of scrutiny regarding financial institutions treatment of customers and business conduct from regulatory bodies, the media, politicians and consumer groups, there is a risk that certain aspects of the Groups current or legacy business may be determined by the Financial Conduct Authority and other regulatory bodies or the courts as not being conducted in accordance with applicable laws or regulations, or in a manner that fails to deliver fair and reasonable treatment.
The Group may also be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the conduct of its business.
Measurement To articulate its conduct risk appetite, the Group has sought more granularity through the use of suitable conduct risk metrics and tolerances that indicate where it may potentially be operating outside its conduct appetite.
Conduct Risk Appetite Metrics CRAMs have been designed for all product families offered by the Group: a set of common metrics have been agreed for all products to support a consistent approach.
These contain a range of product, sales and post-sales metrics to provide a more holistic view of conduct risks: each product also has additional bespoke metrics.
The common metrics are sales volume, product governance adherence, target market, outcome testing: meets customer needs, outcome testing: information disclosure, outcome testing: regulatory compliance, retention, usage, claims decline rates, complaints, Financial Ombudsman Service uphold rate and complaints outcome testing.
Each of the tolerances for the metrics are agreed for the individual product and are tracked month by month.
At a consolidated level these metrics are part of the Board approved risk appetite.
The Group also continues to measure how effectively the overall Conduct Strategy is embedded across all divisions and functions and its impact on customer outcomes through the Group Customer First Committee GCFC.
In relation to market conduct, metrics have also been generated, covering, for example, the way in which confidential information and potential conflicts of interest are managed.
Mitigation The Group takes a range of mitigating actions with respect to this risk: it has implemented a customer-focused, UK-centric strategy, strengthened its culture and values, improved systems and processes, and implemented more effective controls.
These actions are being further embedded throughout the Group across all business areas and all supporting functional areas as part of the transition of the Groups Conduct Strategy from a programme to business as usual supported by the GCFC, including: Conduct risk appetite established at Group and business area level: Customer needs explicitly considered within business and product level planning and strategy: Cultural transformation, supported by strong direction and tone from senior executives and the Board.
This is underpinned by the Groups values and Codes of Responsibility, to deliver the best bank for customers: Enhanced product governance framework to ensure products continue to offer customers fair value, and meet the needs of the relevant target market throughout their life cycle: Sales processes and governance framework to deliver consistently fair outcomes: Enhanced complaints management through effectively responding to, and learning from, root causes to reduce complaint volumes and the Financial Ombudsman Service change rate: Enhanced recruitment and training, and a focus on how the Group manages colleagues performance with clearer customer accountabilities: and Application of the Conduct Strategy to third parties involved in serving the Groups customers.
The Group has also prioritised activity designed to reinforce good conduct in its engagement with the markets in which it operates, together with the development of preventative and detective controls in order to be able to demonstrate this.
The Groups leadership team is committed to embedding the Conduct Strategy within the business following its approved transition into business as usual to support the development of the right customer centric culture.
The Board and Group Risk Committee receive regular reports and metrics to track progress on how the Group is meeting customer needs and minimising conduct risk.
All Group business areas have continued to apply significant resources to the Conduct Strategy to achieve the target of transition to business as usual and to continue delivering improved outcomes for customers.
The Group actively engages with regulatory bodies and other stakeholders in developing its understanding of current customer treatment concerns, and those relating to the fairness and effectiveness of markets, to ensure that the implementation of the Groups conduct strategy meets evolving stakeholder expectations.
Monitoring Monitoring and reporting is undertaken at Board, Group and business area committees.
As part of the reporting of CRAMs, a robust outcomes testing regime is in place to test performance of customer critical activities.
The GCFC has responsibility for monitoring and reviewing integrated measurement of enhanced outcomes, customer views and cultural transformation, including challenging Divisions to make changes based on key learnings to support the delivery of the Groups vision and foster a customer centric culture.
There is also focus on the enhancement of preventative and detective controls to encourage and demonstrate the Groups support for the fair and effective operation of relevant markets.
143 Risk management Risk management continued MARKET RISK Definition Market risk is defined as the risk that unfavourable market moves including changes in and increased volatility of interest rates, market implied inflation rates, credit spreads and bond prices, foreign exchange rates, equity, property and commodity prices and other instruments, lead to reductions in earnings and or value.
Risk appetite Risk appetite is defined within the Group as the amount and type of risk that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
The Groups Risk Management Framework and Market Risk Principle, reviewed and approved annually by the Board, articulate accountabilities for the management of market risk across the Group, and how this is discharged through a robust governance structure with the objective of seeking an optimal risk profile which supports sustainable business growth and minimises losses.
The Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for approving and monitoring group market risks, management techniques, market risk measures, behavioural assumptions, and the market risk policy.
The market risk policy defines the framework and mandatory requirements for market risk management and oversight adopted by the Group.
The policy is owned by Group Corporate Treasury GCT and refreshed annually.
The policy is underpinned by supplementary market risk procedures, which define specific market risk management and oversight requirements.
For further information on risk appetite refer to page 112.
Balance sheet linkages The information provided in table 1.36 below aims to facilitate the understanding of linkages between banking, trading, and insurance balance sheet items and the positions disclosed in the Groups market risk disclosures.
This breakdown of financial instruments included and not included in trading book Value at Risk VaR provides a linkage with the trading book market risk measures reported later on in the market risk section.
It is important to highlight that this table does not reflect how the Group manages trading book market risk, since it does not discriminate between assets and liabilities in its VaR model.
Table 1.36: Market risk linkage to the balance sheet Banking Trading book Total only Non-trading Insurance 2015 m m m m Primary risk factor Assets Cash and balances at central banks 58,417 58,417 Interest rate Items in the course of collection from banks 697 697 Interest rate Trading and other financial assets at fair value through Interest rate, foreign exchange, profit or loss 140,536 42,661 2,181 95,694 credit spread Interest rate, foreign exchange, Derivative financial instruments 29,467 25,305 2,570 1,592 credit spread Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 25,117 3,385 21,732 Interest rate Loans and advances to customers 455,175 455,175 Interest rate Debt securities 4,191 4,191 Interest rate, credit spread 484,483 462,751 21,732 Interest rate, credit spread, Available-for-sale financial assets 33,032 33,030 2 foreign exchange Held-to-maturity investments 19,808 19,808 Interest rate Value of in-force business 4,596 4,596 Equity Other assets 35,652 16,656 18,996 Interest rate Total assets 806,688 67,966 596,110 142,612 Liabilities Deposits from banks 16,925 16,925 Interest rate Customer deposits 418,326 418,326 Interest rate Items in course of transmission to banks 717 717 Interest rate Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 51,863 43,984 7,879 Interest rate, foreign exchange Interest rate, foreign exchange, Derivative financial instruments 26,301 22,124 2,413 1,764 credit spread Debt securities in issue 82,056 82,056 Interest rate Liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts 103,071 103,071 Credit spread Subordinated liabilities 23,312 21,638 1,674 Interest rate, foreign exchange Other liabilities 37,137 7,103 30,034 Interest rate Total liabilities 759,708 66,108 557,057 136,543 144 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Groups trading book assets and liabilities are originated by Financial Markets within the Commercial Banking division.
Within the Groups balance sheet these fall under the trading assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The assets and liabilities are classified as trading books if they have been acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near future.
These consist of government, corporate and financial institution bonds and loans deposits and repos.
Derivative assets and liabilities are held for three main purposes: to provide risk management solutions for clients, to manage portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge the Groups own risks.
The majority of derivatives exposure arises within Financial Markets.
Insurance business assets and liabilities relate to policyholder funds, as well as shareholder invested assets, including annuity funds.
The Group recognises the value of in-force business in respect of Insurances long-term life assurance contracts as an asset in the balance sheet see note 25, page218.
The Group ensures that it has adequate cash and balances at central banks and stocks of high quality liquid assets e. g. Gilts or US Treasury Securities that can be converted easily into cash to meet liquidity requirements.
The majority of these assets are held as available-for-sale with the remainder held as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Further information on these balances can be found under the Funding and Liquidity Risk on page155.
Interest rate risk in the asset portfolios is swapped into floating.
The majority of debt issuance originates from the Issuance, Capital Vehicles and Medium Term Notes desks and the interest rate risk of the debt issued is hedged by swapping them into a floating rate.
Table 1.37 shows the key market risks for the Groups banking, defined benefit pension schemes and trading, banking and Insurance and trading activities.
Table 1.37: Key market risks for the Group by individual business activity profit before tax impact measured against Group single stress scenarios Risk type Interest rate Basis risk FX Credit spread Equity Inflation Banking activities l l l l Defined benefit pension scheme l n l Insurance portfolios l l Trading portfolios Key Profit before tax: Loss Gain 500m l n 250m 500m l n 250m l n 50m Measurement Group market risk is managed within a Board approved framework and risk appetite.
Board risk appetite is calibrated primarily to five economic multi-risk scenarios, and is supplemented with sensitivity based measures.
The scenarios assess the impact of unlikely, but plausible adverse stresses onincome, with the worst case for banking activities, defined benefit pensions, insurance and trading portfolios reported against independently, and across the Group as a whole.
The Board risk appetite is cascaded first to GALCO where risk appetite is approved and monitored by risk type, and then to Group Market Risk Committee GMRC where risk appetite is sub allocated by Division.
These levels of risk appetite comprise scenarios stress based measures single factor stresses, percentile based measures e. g. VaR and Stressed VaR, and sensitivity based measures e. g. sensitivity to 1 basis point move in interest rates, as well as stochastic measures within the Insurance business.
These measures are reviewed regularly by senior management to inform effective decision making.
Mitigation Various mitigation activities are undertaken across the Group to manage portfolios and seek to ensure they remain within approved limits.
Monitoring GALCO and the GMRC regularly review high level market risk exposure, as part of the wider risk management framework.
They also make recommendations to the Group Chief Executive concerning overall market risk appetite and Group Market Risk Policy.
Exposures at lower levels of delegation are monitored at various intervals according to their volatility, from daily in the case of trading portfolios to monthly or quarterly in the case of less volatile portfolios.
Levels of exposures compared to approved limits and triggers are monitored by Risk Division and where appropriate, escalation procedures are in place.
How market risks arise and are managed across the Groups activities is considered in more detail below.
145 Risk management Risk management continued Banking activities Exposures The Groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse movements in interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity prices, with little or no exposure to commodity risk.
The volatility of market values can be affected by both the transparency of prices and the amount of liquidity in the market for the relevant asset or liability.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk in the Groups divisional portfolios and in the Groups capital and funding activities arises from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets, liabilities see loans and advances to customers and customer deposits in table 1.36 and off balance sheet positions of the Group.
Behavioural assumptions are applied to i embedded optionality within products: ii the duration of balances that are contractually repayable on demand, such as current accounts and overdrafts, together with net free reserves of the group: and iii to the re-pricing behaviour of managed rate liabilities namely variable rate savings.
Basis risk arises from the possible changes in spreads, for example where the bank lends with reference to a central bank rate but funds with reference to LIBOR and the spread between these widens or tightens.
Prepayment risk arises, predominantly in the Retail division, as customer balances amortise more quickly or slowly than anticipated due to economic conditions or customers response to changes in economic conditions.
Pipeline and pre hedge risk arises where new business volumes are higher or lower than forecasted.
Foreign exchange risk Economic foreign exchange exposure arises from the Groups investment in its overseas operations net investment exposures are disclosed in note53 on page 265.
In addition, the Group incurs foreign exchange risk through non-functional currency flows from services provided by customer facing divisions and the Groups debt and capital management programmes.
Equity risk Equity risk arises primarily from three different sources: i the Groups strategic equity holdings in Banco Sabadell, Aberdeen, and Visa Europe: ii exposure to Lloyds Banking Group share price through deferred shares and deferred options granted to employees as part of their benefits package: and iii the Groups private equity investments held by Lloyds Development Capital.
Credit spread risk Credit spread risk arises largely from i liquid asset portfolio held in the management of Group liquidity comprising government, supranational, and other eligible assets: and ii the Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA and Debit Valuation Adjustment DVA sensitivity to credit spreads.
Measurement Interest rate risk exposure is monitored monthly using, primarily: i Market value sensitivity: this methodology considers all repricing mismatches behaviourally adjusted where appropriate in the current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that would result from an instantaneous 25, 100 and 200 basis points parallel rise or fall in the yield curve subject to an appropriate floor.
ii Interest income sensitivity: this measures the impact on future net interest income arising from an instantaneous 25, 100 and 200 basis points parallel rise or fall in all the yield curves over a rolling 12 month basis subject to an appropriate floor.
Unlike the market value sensitivities, the interest income sensitivities incorporate additional behavioural assumptions as to how and when individual products would reprice in response to such change.
iii Market Value notional limit: this caps the amount of conventional and inflation-linked government bonds held by the Group for liquidity purposes.
iv Structural hedge limits: these metrics enhance understanding of assumption and duration risk taken within the behaviouralisation of this portfolio.
The Group has an integrated Asset and Liability Management ALM system which supports non traded asset and liability management of the Group.
This provides a single consolidated tool to measure and manage interest rate repricing profiles including behavioural assumptions, perform stress testing and produce forecast outputs.
Interest rate repricing profiles are reported by currency and used to calculate the income and value sensitivities in GBP equivalent.
Repricing assumptions and customer reaction to changes in product pricing is a major determinant of the risk profile.
The Group is aware that any assumptions based model is open to challenge.
However, a full behavioural review is performed annually by Group ALM functions to ensure the assumptions remain appropriate, and is reviewed by Risk Division.
A limit structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about customer behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
146 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Table 1.38 below shows, split by material currency, the Groups market value sensitivities to an instantaneous parallel up and down 25 and 100 basis points change to all interest rate.
The measure, however, is simplified in that it assumes all interest rates, for all currencies and maturities, move at the same time and by the same amount.
The market value sensitivity is driven by temporary customer flow positions not yet hedged plus other positions occasionally held within limits, by the Groups wholesale funding desks in order to minimise overall funding and hedging costs.
The level of risk is low relative to the size of the total balancesheet.
Table 1.39 below shows supplementary value sensitivity to a steepening and flattening in the yield curve.
This ensures there are no unintended consequences to managing risk to parallel shifts in rates.
Table 1.39: Banking activities: market value sensitivity to a steepening and flattening of the yield curve 2015 2014 Steepener Flattener Steepener Flattener m m m m Sterling 105.7 97.1 69.3 85.7 US dollar 3.4 4.8 19.5 6.8 Euro 0.5 2.0 8.6 3.0 Australian dollar 0.0 0.0 0.5 7.5 Other 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total 109.4 103.7 80.9 82.2 The table below shows the banking book income sensitivity to an instantaneous parallel up and down 25 and 100 basis points change to all interest rates.
Table 1.40: Banking activities: net interest income sensitivity audited 2015 2014 Up 25bps Down 25bps Up 100bps Down 100bps Up 25bps Down 25bps Up 100bps Down 100bps m m m m m m m m Client facing activity and associated hedges 152.4 140.1 604.7 464.2 4.6 46.0 176.3 222.3 Income sensitivity is measured over a rolling 12 month basis.
The interest income sensitivity continues to reflect structural hedging against margin compression.
The increased sensitivity reflects both the timing of margin management, and the level of floors giving rise to increased compression risk in the Group.
Basis risk, foreign exchange, equity, and credit spread risks are measured primarily through scenario analysis by assessing the impact on profit before tax over a 12 month horizon arising from a change in market rates, and reported within the Board Risk Appetite on a monthly basis.
Supplementary measures such as sensitivity and exposure limits are applied where they provide greater insight into risk positions.
Frequency of reporting supplementary measures varies from daily to quarterly appropriate to each asset class.
147 Risk management Risk management continued Mitigation The Groups policy is to optimise reward whilst managing its market risk exposures within the risk appetite defined by the Board.
The Group Market Risk policy and procedures outlines the hedging process, and the centralisation of risk from divisions into GCT, e. g. via Transfer Pricing Framework.
GCT is responsible for managing the centralised risk and does this through natural offsets of matching assets and liabilities, and appropriate hedging activity of the residual exposures, subject to the authorisation and mandate of GALCO within the Board risk appetite.
Derivative desks in Financial Markets will then externalise the hedges to the market.
The largest residual risk exposure arises from balances that are deemed to be insensitive to changes in market rates including current accounts, a portion of variable rate deposits and investable equity, and is managed through the Groups structural hedge.
Consistent with the Groups strategy to deliver stable returns, GALCO seeks to minimise large reinvestment risk, and to smooth earnings over a range of investment tenors.
The amount and duration of the hedging activity is reviewed regularly by GALCO, with current target duration of around fouryears.
Whilst the bank faces margin compression in the current low rate environment, its exposure to pipeline and prepayment risk are not considered material, and are hedged in line with expected customer behaviour.
These are appropriately monitored and controlled through Divisional ALCOs.
Net investment foreign exchange exposures are managed centrally by GCT, by hedging non GBP asset values with currency borrowing.
Economic foreign exchange exposures arising from non-functional currency flows are identified by divisions and transferred and managed centrally.
The Group also has a policy of forward hedging its forecasted currency profit and loss to year end.
Monitoring The Risk Management Framework, Policy and Procedures document articulate the monitoring of Banking book market risk through the committee structure.
The Groups Three Lines of Defence ensure risk is identified, and appropriately measured, reported and understood.
The appropriate limits and triggers are monitored by senior executive Committees within the Banking divisions.
Banking assets, liabilities and associated hedging are actively monitored and if necessary rebalanced to be within agreed tolerances.
Defined benefit pension schemes Exposures The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are exposed to significant risks from both their assets and from the present value of their liabilities, primarily real interest rate, credit spread, equity, and alternative asset risks.
The liability discount rate provides exposure to interest rate risk and credit spread risk, which are partially offset by fixed interest assets such as gilts and corporate bonds and swaps.
Equity and alternative asset risk arises from direct asset holdings.
For further information on defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities please refer to note 37 on page226.
Measurement Management of the assets is the responsibility of the Trustees of the schemes who are responsible for setting the investment strategy and for agreeing funding requirements with the Group.
The difference between assets and liabilities determines whether there is a surplus or deficit.
Any deficit must be met by the Group with additional funding agreed with the Trustees as part of a triennial valuation process.
Mitigation The Group takes an active involvement in agreeing risk management and mitigation strategies with the Trustees of the schemes through whom any such activity must be conducted.
An interest rate and inflation hedging programme is in place to reduce liability risk.
The schemes have also reduced equity allocation and are investing the proceeds in credit assets as part of a programme to fide-risk the portfolio.
Monitoring In addition to the wider risk management framework, governance of the schemes includes two specialist pensions committees one Group executive sub-committee and a supporting management committee.
The surplus or deficit in the schemes is tracked on a monthly basis along with various single factor and scenario stresses which consider the assets and liabilities holistically.
The impact on Group capital resources of the schemes is monitored monthly.
Performance against risk appetite triggers is also regularly monitored.
Hedges are in place and asset liability matching positions are also actively monitored.
Insurance portfolios Exposures The main elements of market risk to which the Group is exposed through the Insurance business are equity, credit spread, interest rate and inflation.
Equity risk arises indirectly through the value of future management charges on policyholder funds.
These management charges form part of the value of in-force business see note 25 on page 218.
Equity risk also arises in the with-profits funds but is less material.
Credit spread risk mainly arises from annuities where policyholders future cashflows are guaranteed at retirement.
Exposure arises if the assets which are held to back these liabilities, mainly corporate bonds and loans, do not perform in line with expectations.
Within the Group accounts a large amount of this exposure is removed as accounting rules require that assets Insurance have acquired from Group are maintained at the original amortised book value.
Interest rate risk arises through holding credit and interest assets mainly in the annuity book and also to cover general insurance liabilities, capital requirements and risk appetite.
Inflation exposure is from a combination of inflation linked policyholder benefits and inflation assumptions used to project future expenses.
148 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Measurement Current and potential future market risk exposures within Insurance are assessed using a range of stress testing exercises and scenario analyses.
Risk measures include 1-in-200 year stresses used for regulatory capital assessments and single factor stresses for profit before tax.
Table 1.41 demonstrates the impact of the Groups Fiscal Solvency stress scenario with no diversification benefit on Insurances portfolio: this is the most onerous scenario for Insurance out of the Group scenarios.
The amounts include movements in assets, liabilities and the value of in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
Table 1.41: Insurance business: profit before tax sensitivities Increase reduction in profit before tax 2015 2014 m m Interest rates increase 100 basis points 43 124 Inflation increase 50 basis points 23 143 Credit spreads 100% widening 864 582 Equity 30% fall 616 745 Property 25% fall 51 60 Credit spread exposure increased in 2015 reflecting the Insurance business entry into the bulk annuity market, with a 0.4billion deal in the fourth quarter, building on the 2.4billion Scottish Widows with-profits deal earlier in the year.
Further stresses that show the effect of reasonably possible changes in key assumptions, including the risk-free rate, equity investment volatility, widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds and an increase in illiquidity premia, as applied to profit before tax are set out in note 34.
Mitigation Equity and credit spread risks are inherent within Insurance products and are closely monitored to ensure they remain within risk appetite.
A hedging strategy is in place to reduce exposure from the with-profit funds.
Interest rate risk in the annuity book is mitigated by investing in assets whose cash flows closely match those on the projected future liabilities.
It is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing of insured events is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the required maturities.
As a result, the cash flows cannot be precisely matched and so sensitivity tests are used to test the extent of the mismatch.
Other market risks e. g. interest rate exposure outside the annuity book and inflation are also closely monitored and where considered appropriate, hedges are put in place to reduce exposure.
Monitoring Market risks in the Insurance business are monitored by Insurance senior executive Committees and ultimately the Insurance Board.
Monitoring includes the progression of market risk capital against risk appetite limits, as well as the sensitivity of profit before tax to combined market risk stress scenarios and in year market movements.
Asset liability matching positions and hedges in place are actively monitored and if necessary rebalanced to be within agreed tolerances.
In addition market risk is controlled via approved investment policies and mandates.
Trading portfolios Exposures The Groups trading activity is small relative to its peers and the Group does not have a programme of proprietary trading activities.
The Groups trading activity is undertaken solely to meet the financial requirements of commercial and retail customers for foreign exchange, credit and interest rate products.
These activities support customer flow and market making activities.
All trading activities are performed within the Commercial Banking division.
While the trading positions taken are generally small, any extreme moves in the main risk factors and other related risk factors could cause significant losses in the trading book depending on the positions at the time.
The average 95 per cent 1-day trading VaR diversified across risk factors was 1.4 million for year end 2015 compared to 3.0 million for year end 2014.
This decrease was due to the significant fide-risking activities that took place at the portfolio level.
Trading market risk measures are applied to all the Groups regulatory trading books and they include daily VaR table 1.42, sensitivity based measures, and stress testing calculations.
149 Risk management Risk management continued Measurement The Group internally uses VaR as the primary risk measure for all trading book positions.
Table 1.42 shows some relevant statistics for the Groups 1-day 95 per cent confidence level VaR that are based on 300 historical consecutive business days to year end 2015 and year end 2014.
The risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the minimum expected loss in earnings given the 95 per cent confidence.
The total and average trading VaR numbers reported below have been obtained after the application of the diversification benefits across the five risk types.
The maximum and minimum VaR reported for each risk category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the maximum and minimum VaR reported at Group level.
Table 1.42: Trading portfolios: VaR 1-day 95percent confidence level audited At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014 Close Average Maximum Minimum Close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m m m m m Interest rate risk 0.8 1.4 3.5 0.8 1.7 2.8 4.8 1.3 Foreign exchange risk 0.2 0.3 0.8 0.1 0.2 0.4 1.3 0.0 Equity risk Credit spread risk 0.2 0.4 1.0 0.2 0.6 0.7 1.1 0.5 Inflation risk 0.1 0.3 1.6 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.8 0.2 Sub-total Sum of risk factors 1.3 2.3 6.2 1.3 2.8 4.3 6.4 2.5 Portfolio Diversification 0.4 0.9 0.9 1.3 1 Total VaR 0.9 1.4 3.1 0.8 1.9 3.0 4.6 1.6 1 VaR over 2015 is based on diversified VaR across risk factors following the PRA granting the Group permission to calculate VaR on a diversified basis.
We have applied the same diversification approach for 2014.
The market risk for the trading book continues to be low with respect to the size of the Group and compared to our peers.
This reflects the fact that the Groups trading operations are customer-centric and focused on hedging and recycling client risks.
Although it is an important market standard measure of risk, VaR has limitations.
One of them is the use of limited historical data sample which influences the output by the implicit assumption that future market behaviour will not differ greatly from the historically observed period.
Another known limitation is the use of defined holding periods which assumes that the risk can be liquidated or hedged within that holding period.
Also calculating the VaR at the chosen confidence interval does not give enough information about potential losses which may occur if this level is exceeded.
The Group fully recognises these limitations and supplements the use of VaR with a variety of other measurements which reflect the nature of the business activity.
These include detailed sensitivity analysis, position reporting and a stress testing programme.
Trading book VaR 1-day 99 per cent is compared daily against both hypothetical and clean profit and loss.
1-day 99 per cent VaR charts for Lloyds Bank, HBOS and Lloyds Banking Group models can be found in the Groups Pillar 3 Report.
Mitigation Active management of the Group portfolio is necessary such that the level of exposure is strictly controlled and managed within the approved risk limits.
Monitoring Trading risk appetite is monitored daily with 1-day 95 per cent VaR and Stress Testing limits.
These limits are complemented with position level action triggers and profit and loss referrals.
Risk and position limits are set and managed at both desk and overall trading book levels.
They are reviewed at least annually and can be changed as required within the overall Group risk appetite framework.
150 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OPERATIONAL RISK Definition Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events.
The aim of operational risk management is to manage operational risks in line with defined appetites, and to protect both customers and the Group whilst delivering sustainable growth.
The Group Operational Risk Management Framework is the method by which operational risks are managed in terms of setting risk appetite, evaluating key exposures, measuring risk, mitigating risk, and monitoring risks on an ongoing basis, as set out below.
Risk appetite The Groups operational risk appetite is designed to safeguard the interests of customers, internal and external stakeholders, and shareholders.
Appetite is expressed through four high level statements summarised below, each of which are defined with limits and triggers approved by the Board, and are regularly monitored by executive and Board Risk Committee BRC : Customer: The Group builds trust and does not expect its customers to be impacted negatively.
Reputation: The Group does not expect to suffer events or behaviours that have a material negative impact on its reputation.
The Group minimises the impact from cyber attacks that could result in a significant loss of customer confidence or undermine the stability of the Group.
Financial loss: The Group does not expect to experience cumulative fraud or operational losses above 3per cent or more of budgeted Group income, or individual losses of more than 100 million.
Management time and resources: The Group does not expect internal events that divert excessive senior management time from running the business or have extensive impact on colleague time and or morale.
Exposures The principal operational risks to the Group are: The risk that the Group is unable to provide services to customers as a result of an IT systems failure: Cyber risks associated with malicious attacks on the confidentiality or integrity of electronic data, or the availability of systems: External fraud arising from an act of deception or omission: Risks arising from inadequate delivery of services to customers: and The risk associated with the ongoing provision of services to TSB and other organisations.
The risks below also have potential to negatively impact customers and the Groups future results: Terrorist acts, other acts of war or hostility, geopolitical, pandemic or other such events and responses to those acts events may create economic and political uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on UK and international macroeconomic conditions generally, and more specifically on the Groups results of operations, financial condition or prospects in ways that cannot necessarily be predicted.
Systems and procedures are implemented and maintained by the Group to comply with increasingly complex and detailed anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations.
However, these may not always be fully effective in preventing third parties from using the Group as a conduit for money laundering, terrorist financing and other illegal or prohibited activities.
Should the Group be associated with money laundering, terrorist financing or breaches of financial crime regulations and prohibitions, its reputation could suffer and or it could become subject to fines, sanctions and legal enforcement: any one of which could have a material adverse effect upon operating results, financial condition and prospects.
Measurement Operational risk is managed within a Board approved framework and risk appetite, as set out above.
A variety of measures are used such as: scoring of potential risks, using impact and likelihood, with impact thresholds aligned to the risk appetite statements above: assessment of the effectiveness of controls: monitoring of events and losses by size, business unit and internal risk categories.
Based on data captured on the Groups Operational Risk System, in 2015, the highest frequency of events occurred in external fraud 71.96per cent and execution, delivery and process management 15.81per cent.
Clients, products and business practices accounted for 83.43per cent of losses by value, driven by legacy issues where impacts materialised in 2015 excluding PPI.
Table 1.43 below shows high level loss and event trends for the Group using Basel II categories.
Table 1.43: Operational risk events by risk category losses greater than or equal to 10,000 % of total volume % of total losses 1 1 2015 2014 2015 2014 Business disruption and system failures 0.40 1.20 0.13 0.39 Clients, products and business practices 11.46 14.31 83.43 80.87 Damage to physical assets 0.06 0.04 Employee practices and workplace safety 0.03 0.04 Execution, delivery and process management 15.81 20.30 11.08 14.12 External fraud 71.96 63.69 5.27 4.58 Internal fraud 0.28 0.46 0.05 0.04 Total 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 1 During the year, the Group undertook a review of the internal classification of operational risk events to improve alignment to the Basel categories.
As a result of this review, the Group has changed the classification categories for a number of events.
2014 has been revised to reflect the new categorisations.
151 Risk management Risk management continued Operational risk scenario assessments and actual losses are used by the Group to calculate the appropriate holding of operational risk regulatory capital under the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The Group calculates its minimum Pillar I operational risk capital requirements using The Standardised Approach TSA, which the Basel Committee has stated as being appropriate for an internationally active bank.
Mitigation The Group continues to review and invest in its control environment to ensure it addresses the inherent risks faced.
Risks are reported and discussed at local governance forums and escalated to executive management as appropriate.
This ensures the correct level of visibility and engagement.
The Group employs a range of risk management strategies, including: avoidance, mitigation, transfer which would also include insurance and acceptance.
Contingency plans are maintained for a range of potential scenarios, with regular disaster recovery and scenario testing scheduled to test and challenge the readiness of the Group to respond in the event of an incident.
The Group continues to mature its approach to operational resilience.
The IT Resilience Programme is making significant progress in addressing the observations and associated resilience risks raised in the Independent IT Resilience Review performed by PwC 2013.
The Board recognises the role that resilient technology plays in achieving the Groups strategy of becoming the best bank for customers and in maintaining banking services across the wider industry.
As such, the Board dedicates considerable time and focus to this subject at both the Board and the Board Risk Committee, and continues to sponsor key investment programmes that enhance our resilience.
The threat landscape associated with cyber risk has continued to evolve alongside increasing Regulatory attention.
The Board has defined a Cyber Risk Appetite and is supporting investment to help mitigate this risk.
In addition to initiatives that protect the Group against a malicious cyber-attack the Group continues to invest in enhanced protection of customer information, including limiting access to key systems and enhancing the security, durability and accessibility of critical information.
The Group adopts a risk based approach to mitigate the external fraud risks it faces, reflecting the current and emerging external fraud risks within the market.
This approach drives an annual programme of enhancements to the Groups technology, process and people related controls, with an emphasis on preventative controls supported by real time detective controls wherever feasible.
Groupwide policies and operational control frameworks are maintained and designed to provide customer confidence, protect the Groups commercial interests and reputation, comply with legal requirements and meet regulatory expectations.
The Groups fraud awareness programme remains a key component of its fraud control environment.
The Group remediates issues that are identified in its customer processes, addressing root cause and rectifying customers as required.
Enhancing the overall servicing environment remains a focus of dedicated Group programmes such as Simplification.
Following the successful divestment of TSB the Group retains responsibility for the ongoing provision of key services which are managed via robust change management governance and a consolidated strategic change plan.
There are separate governance arrangements in place to oversee the impacts of the divestment on the retained business customers, operations and controls.
Operational resilience measures and recovery planning defined in the Groups Business Continuity Management policy ensure an appropriate and consistent approach to the management of continuity risks, including potential interruptions from a range of internal and external incidents or threats including environmental and climatic issues, terrorism, cyber, economic instability, pandemic planning and operational incidents.
The Group has adopted policies and procedures designed to detect and prevent the use of its banking network for money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and activities prohibited by legal and regulatory sanctions.
The Group regularly reviews and assesses these policies to keep them current, effective and consistent across markets.
The Group requires mandatory training on these topics for all employees.
Specifically, the anti-money laundering procedures include know-your-customer requirements, transaction monitoring technologies and reporting of suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing to the applicable regulatory authorities and the Anti-Bribery Policy prohibits the payment, offer, acceptance or request of a bribe, including facilitation payments by any employee or agent and provides a confidential reporting service for anonymous reporting for suspected or actual bribery activity.
The Sanctions and the Related Prohibitions Policy sets out a framework of controls for compliance with legal and regulatorysanctions.
Monitoring Monitoring and reporting is undertaken at Board, Group and business area committees, in accordance with delegated limits of authority which are regularly reviewed and refreshed.
Business unit risk exposure is aggregated and discussed at the Group Conduct, Compliance and Operational Risk Committee, and matters are escalated to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees, if appropriate.
A combination of: regular management information and reporting from business areas, oversight and challenge from Risk Division, Group Audit and other assurance activities ensures that key risks are regularly presented and debated by executive management.
The Group maintains a formal approach to operational risk event escalation, whereby material events are identified, captured and escalated.
Root causes of events are determined, where possible and action plans put in place to ensure an optimum level of control to keep customers and the business safe, reduce costs, and improve efficiency.
The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with recommendations being made to the Groups senior management annually prior to each renewal.
Insurers are monitored on an ongoing basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process is in place to manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
152 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY RISK Definition Funding risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
Risk appetite Funding and liquidity risk is managed separately for the Banking and Insurance businesses.
Funding and liquidity risk appetite for the Banking business is set with the support of the Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO.
The liquidity risk appetite for the Insurance business is reviewed and set annually by the Insurance Board.
For the Banking Group, the liquidity risk appetite covers a range of metrics considered key to maintaining a strong liquidity and funding position, including a number of stressed metrics, with regular reporting to GALCO and the Board.
Risk appetite is a key element of the annual Group planning process with risk appetite defined over the life of the funding plan.
Exposure Liquidity exposure represents the amount of potential stressed outflows in any future period less expected inflows.
Liquidity is considered from both an internal and a regulatory perspective.
Measurement Liquidity risk is managed through a series of measures, tests and reports that are primarily based on contractual maturity.
Note 53 on page265 sets out an analysis of assets and liabilities by relevant maturity grouping.
In order to reflect more accurately the expected behaviour of the Groups assets and liabilities, measurement and modelling of the behavioural aspects of each is constructed.
Divisional teams form a view of customer behaviour based on quantitative and qualitative analysis.
The analysis takes into account items such as early repayment, forbearance and impairment for assets: rollover and early withdrawal for liabilities.
The assumptions are subject to governance via divisional asset and liability committees.
The behavioural reviews form the foundation of the Groups Liquidity Transfer Pricing LTP and are applied to the contractual profile of the Group for the liquidity risk stress testing framework.
Mitigation The Group mitigates the risk of a liquidity mismatch in excess of its risk appetite by managing the liquidity profile of the balance sheet through short term liquidity management and over the life of the funding plan, combining business as usual and stressed conditions.
The Group manages its risk appetite and liquidity position as a coverage ratio proportion of stressed outflows covered by eligible liquid assets corresponding with the PRA and CRD IV liquidity requirements.
Longer term funding is used to manage the Groups strategic liquidity profile, determined by the Groups balance sheet structure.
Longer term is defined as having an original maturity of more than one year.
The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its significant customer deposit base, and is supported by strong relationships with corporate customers and certain wholesale market segments.
A substantial proportion of the retail deposit base is made up of customers current and savings accounts which, although mostly repayable on demand, have traditionally in aggregate provided a stable source of funding.
Funding concentration by counterparty and currency is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Where concentrations do exist for example, maturity profile, these are limited by the internal risk appetite and considered manageable.
The ability to deploy assets quickly, either through the repo market or through outright sale, is also an important source of liquidity for the Groups Banking businesses.
To assist in managing the balance sheet the Group operates an LTP process which: allocates relevant interest expenses from the centre to the Groups Banking businesses within the internal management accounts in a manner consistent with the Group Funding and Liquidity Policy: helps drive the correct inputs to customer pricing and supports the overall Group balance sheet strategy: and is consistent with regulatory requirements.
Relevant interest expenses allocated via LTP include term funding spreads incurred over a three month LIBOR benchmark and the cost of funding and holding liquid asset reserves.
LTP makes extensive use of behavioural maturity profiles, taking account of expected customer loan prepayments and stability of customer deposits.
Such behavioural maturity assumptions are subject to formal governance, reviewed at least annually and founded on analysis and evidence of actual customer behaviour using historical data gathered over several years.
Liquidity risk within the Insurance business may result from: the inability to sell financial assets quickly at their fair values: an insurance liability falling due for payment earlier than expected: the inability to generate cash inflows as anticipated: an unexpected large operational event: or from a general insurance catastrophe e. g. a significant weather event.
Following the implementation of Solvency II, the annuity portfolio is ring-fenced and assets held to match annuity liability cashflows are excluded from shareholder liquidity.
In the event a liquidity shortfall arises on the annuity portfolio, shareholder liquidity will be required to support this.
As a result, the shareholders exposure to liquidity risk is through Insurances non-annuity and surplus assets, any shortfall arising in the annuity portfolio and the investment portfolios within the general insurance business.
Liquidity risk is actively managed and monitored within the Insurance business to ensure that, even under stress conditions, there is sufficient liquidity to meet obligations and remain within approved risk appetite.
In addition, liquidity risk is controlled via approved funding and liquidity policies.
Monitoring Liquidity is actively monitored at Group level.
Routine reporting is in place to senior management and through the Groups committee structure, in particular GALCO which meets monthly.
In a stress situation the level of monitoring and reporting is increased commensurate with the nature of the stress event.
Liquidity policies and procedures are subject to independent internal oversight.
Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address internal and regulatory liquidity requirements.
The Group monitors a range of market and internal early warning indicators on a daily basis for early signs of liquidity risk in the market or specific to the Group.
These are a mixture of quantitative and qualitative measures, including: daily variation of customer balances, changes in maturity profiles, cash outflows, funding concentration, changes in primary liquidity portfolio, credit default swap CDS spreads and changing funding costs.
153 Risk management Risk management continued In addition, the monitoring framework has two other important components.
Firstly, the Group carries out stress testing of its liquidity and potential cash flow mismatch position over both short up to one month and longer term up to three months horizons against a range of scenarios reflecting possible future liquidity risks.
The scenarios and the assumptions are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance that they continue to be relevant to the nature of the business.
For further information on the Groups 2015 liquidity stress testing results refer to page158.
In addition to the liquidity stress testing framework, the Group funding plan is stressed against a range of macroeconomic scenarios, including those prescribed by the PRA.
The Group also applies its own macroeconomic stress scenarios, including a one in 20 year recession.
Liquidity Risk Appetite and regulatory metrics are calculated and monitored over the life the plan under base and stress conditions.
Secondly, the Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which is designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating actions can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
Contingency Funding Plan invocation and escalation processes are based on analysis of five major quantitative and qualitative components, comprising assessment of: early warning indicators, prudential and regulatory liquidity risk limits and triggers, stress testing results, event and systemic indicators and market intelligence.
Funding and liquidity management in 2015 During 2015 the Group has maintained its strong funding and liquidity position, with a loan to deposit ratio of 109per cent, LCR eligible liquid assets broadly equal to total wholesale funding and over five times money market funding less than one year to maturity at 31December 2015.
The Group has a diverse funding platform which comprises a strong customer deposit base along with wholesale funding comprising of a range of secured and unsecured funding products.
Total funded assets reduced by 22.2 billion to 471.2 billion during 2015.
Loans and advances to customers, excluding reverse repos, reduced by 22.4billion.
Mortgage lending increased by 1per cent, slightly below market growth, reflecting the Groups focus on protecting margin in a low growth environment.
UK loan growth in Consumer Finance was strong at 17 per cent and SME lending growth was 5per cent, both outperforming the market.
The growth was offset by the sale of TSB, the further reduction in run-off and other lending portfolios which are closed to new business.
Total customer deposits fell by 28.8 billion to 418.3 billion at 31 December 2015, largely due to the sale of TSB and the planned reduction in tactical deposits.
Wholesale funding has increased by 3.4billion to 119.9billion: the amount with a residual maturity less than one year falling to 37.9billion 41.1billion at 31December 2014.
The Groups term funding ratio wholesale funding with a remaining life of over one year as a percentage of total wholesale funding increased to 68percent 65percent at 31December 2014.
In 2015 the Groups term issuance costs were lower than 2014 and significantly lower than previous years.
In 2015 Standard and Poors S&P, Moodys and Fitch completed their exceptional reviews of Lloyds Banks ratings following the UK implementation of the EU Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive.
In all cases, Lloyds Banks ratings were either affirmed or upgraded due to the delivery of our strategy to be a low risk, customer focused UK bank and or recognition of the protection Lloyds sizeable subordinated debt buffer provides to senior creditors.
In particular, Fitch upgraded Lloyds Bank to A from A and revised the outlook to Stable from Negative.
Moodys affirmed Lloyds rating at A1 with a Positive outlook.
S&P affirmed Lloyds rating at A with a Stable outlook.
Following these rating actions, Lloyds Banks median rating has improved to A previously A.
The effects of a potential downgrade from all three rating agencies are included in the Group liquidity stress testing.
The LCR became the Pillar 1 standard for liquidity in the UK in October 2015.
The Group comfortably meets the requirements and has a robust and well governed reporting framework in place for both regulatory reporting and internal management information.
The Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR is due to become a minimum standard from January 2018.
The Group continues to monitor the requirements and expects to meet the minimum requirements once these are confirmed by the PRA.
The combination of a strong balance sheet and access to a wide range of funding markets, including government and central bank schemes, provides the Group with a broad range of options with respect to funding the balance sheet.
Table 1.44: Summary funding and liquidity metrics At 31 Dec At 31 Dec Change 2015 2014 % 1 LCR eligible liquidity buffer bn 123.4 109.3 13 Term funding ratio % 68.4 64.7 6 Loan to deposit ratio % 108.8 106.8 2 1 LCR eligible liquid assets money market funding less than one year maturity 5.7 5.8 2 1 Comparative 2014 data relates to Individual Liquidity Adequacy Standards ILAS eligible primary liquid assets.
154 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Table 1.45: Group funding position At 31 Dec At 31Dec 2015 2014 Change bn bn % Funding requirement 1 Loans and advances to customers 455.2 477.6 5 2 Loans and advances to banks 3.4 3.0 13 Debt securities 4.2 1.2 Reverse repurchase agreements 1.0 3 Available-for-sale financial assets non LCR eligible 2.7 8.0 66 4 Cash and balances at central banks non LCR eligible 4.7 3.6 31 Funded assets 471.2 493.4 4 5 Other assets 234.2 265.2 12 705.4 758.6 7 6 On balance sheet LCR eligible liquid assets Reverse repurchase agreements 7.0 4 Cash and Balances at central banks 53.7 46.9 14 Available-for-sale financial assets 30.3 48.5 38 Held to maturity financial assets 19.8 Trading and fair value through profit and loss 3.0 6.1 Repurchase agreements 5.5 101.3 96.3 5 Total Group assets 806.7 854.9 6 5 Less: Other liabilities 221.5 240.3 8 Funding requirement 585.2 614.6 5 Funded by Customer deposits 418.3 447.1 6 7 Wholesale funding 119.9 116.5 3 538.2 563.6 5 Repurchase agreements 1.1 Total equity 47.0 49.9 6 Total funding 585.2 614.6 5 1 Excludes nil 31 December 2014: 5.1 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
2 Excludes 20.8 billion 31 December 2014: 21.3 billion of loans and advances to banks within the Insurance business and 0.9billion 31 December 2014: 1.9 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
3 Non LCR eligible liquidity assets comprise a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral including retained issuance.
4 Cash balances and balances at central banks are combined in the Groups balance sheet.
5 Other assets and other liabilities primarily include balances in the Groups Insurance business and the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities.
6 2014 comparators are on an ILAS basis.
7 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
Table 1.46: Reconciliation of Group funding to the balance sheet audited At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014 Repos and Fair value Repos and Fair value cash collateral and other cash collateral and other Included in received by accounting Included in received by accounting funding analysis Insurance methods Balance sheet funding analysis Insurance methods Balance sheet bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Deposits from banks 8.5 8.4 16.9 9.8 1.1 10.9 Debt securities in issue 88.1 6.0 82.1 80.6 4.4 76.2 Subordinated liabilities 23.3 23.3 26.1 0.1 26.0 Total wholesale funding 119.9 8.4 116.5 1.1 Customer deposits 418.3 418.3 447.1 447.1 Total 538.2 8.4 563.6 1.1 155 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.47: Analysis of 2015 total wholesale funding by residual maturity One to Six to Nine Total at Total at Less than three Three to nine months to One to Two to More than 31Dec 31Dec one month months six months months one year two years five years five years 2015 2014 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Deposit from banks 6.7 0.8 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.3 8.5 9.8 Debt securities in issue: Certificates of deposit 1.0 4.3 2.0 2.5 0.8 10.6 6.8 Commercial paper 3.7 2.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 6.6 7.3 1 Medium-term notes 0.9 0.6 2.0 0.9 0.5 5.2 13.6 13.9 37.6 29.2 Covered bonds 1.2 1.1 0.5 5.3 7.4 10.3 25.8 25.2 Securitisation 0.4 0.8 0.2 0.2 3.6 0.9 1.4 7.5 12.1 6.0 7.2 6.3 4.9 2.1 14.1 21.9 25.6 88.1 80.6 Subordinated liabilities 0.2 0.2 0.5 2.3 0.9 7.6 11.6 23.3 26.1 2 Total wholesale funding 12.7 8.2 7.0 5.5 4.5 15.0 29.5 37.5 119.9 116.5 Of which is issued by 3 LloydsBanking Group plc 0.3 3.1 3.4 2.6 1 Medium-term notes include funding from the National Loan Guarantee Scheme 31December 2015: 1.4billion: 31December 2014: 1.4billion.
2 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
3 Comprises 3.4 billion of subordinated liabilities 31 December 2014: 2.0 billion and nil of medium term notes 31December 2014: 0.6 billion issued by the holding company, Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Table 1.48: Total wholesale funding by currency audited Other Sterling US dollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn At 31December 2015 34.9 37.6 41.3 6.1 119.9 At 31December 2014 34.4 35.6 40.1 6.4 116.5 Table 1.49: Analysis of 2015 term issuance audited Other Sterling US dollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn Securitisation 1.0 1.2 0.3 2.5 Medium-term notes 0.3 4.8 3.3 1.2 9.6 Covered bonds 1.7 2.0 3.7 1 Private placements 1.0 2.1 2.3 5.4 Subordinated liabilities 0.3 0.3 Total issuance 4.0 8.4 7.9 1.2 21.5 2 Of which is issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc 0.3 0.3 1 Private placements include structured bonds and term repurchase agreements repos.
2 Comprises 0.3billion of subordinated liabilities issued by the holding company, Lloyds Banking Group plc.
In addition Lloyds Banking Group plc issued c. 1.2 billion of subordinated liabilities as part of an exchange of outstanding operating company securities for new holding company securities.
The Group continued to maintain a diversified approach to markets with trades in public and private format, secured and unsecured products and a wide range of currencies and markets.
For 2016, the Group will continue to maintain this diversified approach to funding, including capital and funding from the holding company, Lloyds Banking Group plc, as needed to optimise the capital and funding position to transition towards final UK Minimum Requirements for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL which is still being consulted on in the UK.
Continued use of the UK governments Funding for Lending Scheme FLS has further underlined the Groups support to the UK economic recovery and the Group remains committed to passing the benefits of this low cost funding on to its customers.
In 2015 the Group drew down 12.1billion under the FLS, bringing total drawings under the FLS to 32.1billion.
The maturities for the FLS are fully factored into the Groups funding plan.
156 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Liquidity portfolio The UK regulator adopted the EU delegated Act on 1 October 2015.
Prior to this, liquidity was managed on an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Standards ILAS basis where liquid assets were divided into Primary and Secondary categories.
Post 1 October 2015, liquid assets are classed as LCR eligible or non-LCR eligible.
At 31 December 2015, the Banking business had 123.4 billion of highly liquid unencumbered LCR eligible assets, of which 122.9 billion is LCR level1 eligible and 0.5 billion is LCR level 2 eligible.
These assets are available to meet cash and collateral outflows and PRA regulatory requirements.
A separate liquidity portfolio to mitigate any insurance liquidity risk is managed within the Insurance business.
LCR eligible liquid assets represent 5.7times the Groups money market funding less than one year maturity excluding derivative collateral margins and settlement accounts and is broadly equivalent to total wholesale funding, and thus provides a substantial buffer in the event of continued market dislocation.
During 2015 the Group has increased regulatory liquidity to strengthen the overall liquidity position.
Table 1.50: LCR eligible assets At 31 Dec Average 1 2015 2015 bn bn Level 1 Cash and central bank reserves 53.7 57.2 2 High quality government MDB agency bonds 65.8 63.0 High quality covered bonds 3.4 3.3 Total Level 1 122.9 123.5 3 Level 2 0.5 0.7 Total LCR eligible assets 123.4 124.2 1 Average for fourth quarter 2015 only.
2 Designated multilateral development bank MDB.
Includes eligible government guaranteed bonds.
Table 1.51: LCR eligible assets by currency At 31 December 2015 Sterling US Dollar Euro Total bn bn bn bn Level 1 90.9 15.8 16.2 122.9 Level 2 0.1 0.4 0.5 Total 91.0 15.8 16.6 123.4 Table 1.52: ILAS eligible assets At 31Dec At 31Dec Average Average 2015 2014 2015 2014 bn bn bn bn 1 Primary liquidity Cash and balances at central bank 52.6 46.9 65.1 62.3 2 Government MDB bonds 64.4 62.4 51.3 47.9 Total 117.0 109.3 116.4 110.2 1 Secondary liquidity 3 High-quality ABS covered bonds 3.3 3.9 3.6 3.6 3 Credit institution bonds 0.2 0.9 0.5 1.4 3 Corporate bonds 0.3 0.6 0.4 0.3 Own securities retained insurance 14.7 20.6 15.9 22.2 Other securities 9.1 5.7 6.5 5.5 4 Other 76.6 67.5 65.2 74.1 Total 104.2 99.2 92.1 107.1 Total liquidity 221.2 208.5 1 Primary and secondary liquidity as defined under the ILAS regulatory system.
4 Includes other central banks eligible assets.
157 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.53: ILAS eligible assets by currency At 31 December 2015 At 31 December 2014 Sterling US Dollar Euro Total Sterling US Dollar Euro Total bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2015 1 Primary liquidity 88.6 14.8 13.6 117.0 81.1 14.5 13.7 109.3 1 Secondary liquidity 97.0 2.2 5.0 104.2 91.3 1.2 6.7 99.2 Total 185.6 17.0 18.6 221.2 172.4 15.7 20.4 208.5 1 Primary and secondary liquidity as defined under the ILAS regulatory system.
The Banking business also had 98.9billion of secondary, non-LCR eligible liquidity, the vast majority of which, however, is eligible for use in a range of central bank or similar facilities and the Group routinely makes use of as part of its normal liquidity management practices.
Future use of such facilities will be based on prudent liquidity management and economic considerations, having regard for external market conditions.
The Group considers diversification across geography, currency, markets and tenor when assessing appropriate holdings of primary and secondary liquid assets.
This liquidity is managed as a single pool in the centre and is under the control of the function charged with managing the liquidity of the Group.
It is available for deployment at immediate notice, subject to complying with regulatory requirements, and is a key component of the Groups liquidity management process.
Stress testing results Internal stress testing results at 31December 2015 showed that the Banking business had liquidity resources representing 163percent of modelled outflows from all wholesale funding sources, retail and corporate deposits, intraday requirements and rating dependent contracts under the Groups most severe liquidity stress scenario the three month PRA combined scenario.
The liquidity stress testing assumes that further credit rating downgrades may reduce investor appetite for some of the Groups liability classes and therefore funding capacity.
A hypothetical idiosyncratic two notch downgrade of the Groups current long-term debt rating and accompanying short-term downgrade implemented instantaneously by all major rating agencies, could result in an outflow of 1.5billion of cash over a period of up to one year, 2.1billion of collateral posting related to customer financial contracts and 5.6billion of collateral posting associated with secured funding.
The Groups internal liquidity risk appetite includes such a stress scenario.
The stress scenario modelling demonstrates the Group has available liquidity resources to manage such an event.
Encumbered assets This disclosure provides further detail on the availability of assets that could be used to support potential future funding requirements of the Group.
The disclosure is not designed to identify assets that would be available in the event of a resolution or bankruptcy.
The Groups analysis separately identifies those assets held at central banks: assets not held at central banks are classified as either encumbered or unencumbered.
Encumbered assets: Assets recognised on the Groups balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the Group to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Pre-positioned and encumbered assets held with central banks: Assets which have been delivered to central banks to facilitate future drawdowns under central bank funding schemes and assets which are encumbered under such schemes.
The following sub analyses have been provided for unencumbered assets not pre-positioned at central banks: Unencumbered Readily realisable: Assets regarded by the Group to be readily realisable in the normal course of business, to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, and are not subject to any restrictions on their use for these purposes.
Unencumbered Other realisable: Assets where there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but are not readily realisable in the normal course of business in their current form.
Unencumbered Cannot be used: Assets that have not been pledged but which the Group has assessed could not be pledged and therefore could not be used to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
The following assets are classified as unencumbered cannot be used: assets held within the Groups Insurance businesses which are generally held to either back liabilities to policyholders or to support the solvency of the Insurance subsidiaries: assets held within consolidated limited liability partnerships which provide security for the Groups obligations to its pension schemes: assets pledged to facilitate the use of intra-day payment and settlement systems: and reverse repos and derivatives balance sheet ledger items.
The Board and GALCO monitor and manage total balance sheet encumbrance via a number of risk appetite metrics.
At 31December 2015, the Group had 77.4 billion 31 December 2014: 105.2 billion of externally encumbered on balance sheet assets with counterparties other than central banks.
The reduction in encumbered assets was driven by securitisation and covered bond maturities.
The Group also had 573.7 billion 31 December 2014: 641.8billion of unencumbered on balance sheet assets, and 155.6 billion 31 December 2014: 107.8billion of pre-positioned and encumbered assets held with central banks.
Primarily the Group encumbers mortgages, unsecured lending and credit card receivables through the issuance programmes and tradable securities through securities financing activity.
The Group mainly positions mortgage assets at central banks.
158 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Table 1.54: On balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets Prepositioned and encumbered assets held Encumbered with counterparties other than with central central banks banks Unencumbered assets not pre-positioned with central banks Total Other Covered Readily realisable Cannot be Securitisations bonds Other Total realisable assets used Total m m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 56,323 2,094 58,417 58,417 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 6,922 6,922 7,459 17 126,138 133,614 140,536 Derivative financial instruments 29,467 29,467 29,467 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 37 37 431 910 23,739 25,080 25,117 Loans and advances to customers 13,668 32,641 7,418 53,727 150,086 7,678 159,510 84,174 251,362 455,175 Debt securities 855 855 3,150 62 124 3,336 4,191 13,668 32,641 8,310 54,619 150,086 11,259 160,482 108,037 279,778 484,483 Available-for-sale financial assets 15,810 15,810 5,548 11,048 31 595 11,674 33,032 Held-to-maturity investments 19,808 19,808 19,808 1 Other 10 2,716 38,219 40,945 40,945 Total assets 13,668 32,641 31,042 77,351 155,634 105,907 163,246 304,550 573,703 806,688 At 31 December 2014 Cash and balances at central banks 48,302 2,190 50,492 50,492 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 13,389 13,389 5,149 2,259 131,134 138,542 151,931 Derivative financial instruments 36,128 36,128 36,128 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 26 26 424 712 24,993 26,129 26,155 Loans and advances to customers 25,534 39,280 7,850 72,664 107,803 16,086 161,458 124,693 302,237 482,704 Debt securities 728 728 281 100 104 485 1,213 25,534 39,280 8,604 73,418 107,803 16,791 162,270 149,790 328,851 510,072 Available-for-sale financial assets 119 18,321 18,440 37,711 30 312 38,053 56,493 Held-to-maturity investments 1 Other 2,054 2,598 45,128 49,780 49,780 Total assets 25,653 39,280 40,314 105,247 107,803 110,007 167,157 364,682 641,846 854,896 1 Other comprises: items in the course of collection from banks, investment properties, goodwill, value of in-force business, other intangible assets, tangible fixed assets, current tax recoverable, deferred tax assets, retirement benefit assets and other assets.
The above table sets out the carrying value of the Groups encumbered and unencumbered assets, separately identifying those that are available to support the Groups funding needs.
It should be noted that the table does not include collateral received by the Group i. e. from reverse repos that is not recognised on its balance sheet, the vast majority of which the Group is permitted to repledge.
The Group provides collateralised security financing services to its clients, providing them with cash financing or specific securities.
Collateralised security financing is also used to manage the Groups own short-term cash and collateral needs.
For securities accepted as collateral mandates are credit rating driven with appropriate notional limits per rating, asset and individual bond concentration.
The vast majority of collateral the Group uses in repo reverse repo and stock lending stock borrowing transactions is investment grade government issued, primarily UK government debt.
The majority of repo reverse repo and stock lending stock borrowing transactions are short-term, having a residual maturity of less than three months.
159 Risk management Risk management continued CAPITAL RISK Definition Capital risk is defined as the risk that the Group has a sub-optimal amount or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across the Group.
Risk appetite Capital risk appetite is set by the Group Board, reflecting the Groups strategic plans, regulatory capital constraints and market expectations.
It is defined by a number of minimum capital ratios, a minimum leverage ratio and a minimum buffer over regulatory solvency requirements for the Insurance business set by the Insurance Board.
The Group monitors its actual and forecast capital positions aiming to remain within its appetite at all times.
Exposures A capital risk exposure arises when the Group has insufficient capital resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and to meet external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
This could arise due to a depletion of the Groups capital resources as a result of the crystallisation of any of the risks to which it is exposed.
Alternatively a shortage of capital could arise from an increase in the amount of capital that is needed to be held.
The Groups capital management approach is focused on maintaining sufficient capital resources to prevent such exposures while optimising value for shareholders.
Measurement The Group measures the amount of capital it holds using the regulatory framework defined by the Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD IV as implemented in the UK by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
Full details of the Groups regulatory capital framework are provided on page 14 of the Pillar 3 Report.
The minimum amount of total capital, under Pillar 1 of the regulatory framework, is determined as 8percent of aggregate risk-weighted assets.
At least 4.5percent of risk-weighted assets are required to be covered by common equity tier 1 CET1 capital and at least 6percent of risk-weighted assets are required to be covered by tier 1 capital.
These minimum Pillar1 requirements are supplemented by additional minimum requirements under Pillar 2 of the regulatory framework and a number of regulatory capital buffers as described below.
Additional minimum requirements are set by the PRA by the issuance of bank specific Individual Capital Guidance ICG.
This reflects a point in time estimate by the PRA, which may change over time, of the total amount of capital that is needed by the bank.
It includes the assessment of risks that are not fully covered by Pillar 1, such as credit concentration and operational risk, and those risks not covered at all by Pillar 1 such as pensions and interest rate risk.
During 2015 the PRA increased the Groups ICG such that at 31December 2015 it represented 4.6percent of risk-weighted assets of which 2.6percent had to be covered by CET1 capital.
The Group believes that the increase reflects the impact of market and economic factors and the reduction in risk-weighted assets rather than any fundamental changes to the nature of the underlying risks.
However the Group is not permitted by the PRA to give any further details of the quantum of the individual components.
The Group is also required to maintain a number of regulatory capital buffers which are required to be met with CET1 capital.
Systemic risk buffers are designed to hold systemically important banks to higher capital standards.
The Group is not currently categorised as a global systemically important bank G-SIB for which the Financial Stability Board FSB has set buffer rates.
The Financial Policy Committee FPC has recently issued a consultation on the UK systemic risk buffer requirements for ring-fenced banks and large building societies proposing a rate of up to 2.5per cent.
The requirements will come into force from 2019 and the Group awaits finalisation of these later in 2016.
The capital conservation buffer is a general buffer of 2.5percent of risk-weighted assets designed to provide for losses in the event of stress and is being phased in over the period from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2019.
The countercyclical capital buffer is time-varying and is designed to require banks to hold additional capital to remove or reduce the build up of systemic risk in times of credit boom, providing additional loss absorbing capacity and acting as an incentive for banks to constrain further credit growth.
The amount of the buffer is determined by reference to buffer rates set by the FPC for the individual countries where the Group has credit risk exposures.
The current requirement for the Group is negligible.
The FPC can also set sectoral capital requirements which are temporary increases to banks capital requirements on exposures to specific sectors, if the FPC judges that exuberant lending to those sectors poses risks to financial stability.
No sectoral capital requirements currently apply to the Group.
As part of the capital planning process, forecast capital positions are subjected to extensive stress analyses to determine the adequacy of the Groups capital resources against the minimum requirements, including ICG.
The PRA uses the outputs from some of these stress analyses to inform the setting of a minimum level of capital buffer for the Group.
Prior to 2016 this was known as the Capital Planning Buffer but has now been replaced by the PRA Buffer which is set taking account of the capital conservation buffer, countercyclical capital buffer and any sectoral capital requirements that already apply to the Group.
The PRA requires the PRA Buffer to remain confidential between the Group and the PRA.
In addition to the risk-based capital framework outlined above, the Group is also subject to minimum capital requirements under the UKs leverage ratio framework.
The leverage ratio is calculated by dividing fully loaded tier 1 capital resources by a defined measure of on-balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet items.
The minimum leverage ratio is 3percent, in line with current Basel Committee proposals.
In addition the UK framework requires two buffers to be maintained: The Additional Leverage Ratio Buffer ALRB, which it is proposed should be up to 0.9 per cent, and a time-varying Countercyclical Leverage Buffer CCLB of up to 0.9percent currently negligible for the Group.
At least 75percent of the minimum 3percent requirement and the entirety of any buffers that may apply must be met by CET1 capital.
The ALRB applies from 1 January 2016 but only for G-SIBs and as the Group is not categorised as a G-SIB it is not currently subject to the ALRB.
Final rules are awaited on the wider application of the ALRB to ring-fenced banks and large building societies within the UK from 2019.
The proposed leverage ratio framework does not currently give rise to higher capital requirements for the Group than the risk-based capital framework.
160 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Mitigation The Group has a capital management framework including policies and procedures that are designed to ensure that it operates within its risk appetite, uses its capital resources efficiently and continues to comply with regulatory requirements.
The Group is able to accumulate additional capital through the retention of profits over time, which can be enhanced through cutting costs and reducing or cancelling dividend payments, by raising new equity via, for example, a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising additional tier1 or tier2 capital through issuing tier 1 instruments or subordinated liabilities.
The cost and availability of additional capital is dependent upon market conditions and perceptions at the time.
The Group is also able to manage the demand for capital through management actions including adjusting its lending strategy, risk hedging strategies and through business disposals.
Additional measures to manage the Groups capital position include seeking to optimise the generation of capital demand within the Groups businesses to strike an appropriate balance of capital held within the Groups Insurance and banking subsidiaries and through improving the quality of its capital through liability management exercises.
Monitoring Capital is actively managed and regulatory ratios are a key factor in the Groups planning processes and stress analyses.
Multi-year forecasts of the Groups capital position, based upon the Groups operating plan, are produced at least annually to inform the Groups capital strategy whilst shorter term forecasts are more frequently undertaken to understand and respond to variations of the Groups actual performance against the plan.
The capital plans are tested for capital adequacy using a range of stress scenarios covering adverse economic conditions as well as other adverse factors that could impact the Group and the Group maintains a Recovery Plan which sets out a range of potential mitigating actions that could be taken in response to a stress.
Regular reporting of actual and projected ratios, including those in stressed scenarios, is undertaken, including submissions to the Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO, Group Risk Committee GRC, Board Risk Committee BRC and the Board.
Capital policies and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
The regulatory framework within which the Group operates continues to evolve.
In particular, the Basel Committee is continuing to review the treatment of the standardised risk-weighted asset frameworks for credit risk and operational risk and the credit valuation adjustment risk framework.
It is also to finalise recommendations for the capital treatment of interest rate risk in the banking book IRRBB, the calibration of leverage ratio requirements and continues to consider the treatment of sovereign risk and the setting of additional constraints on the use of internally modelled approaches including the design of a new capital floors framework.
In addition the Bank of England is consulting on proposals for the application of the European Commissions MREL minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities.
In December 2015, the FPC published a document alongside its Financial Stability Report in which it expressed its views on the overall calibration of the capital requirements framework for the UK banking system together with a description of how it expected the framework to transition from its current state to its end point in 2019 as well as ongoing work to refine capital requirements during that transitional period.
The Group continues to monitor these developments very closely, analysing the potential capital impacts to ensure that, through organic capital generation, the Group continues to maintain a strong capital position that exceeds the minimum regulatory requirements and the Groups risk appetite and is consistent with market expectations.
Stress testing In addition to the internal stress testing activity undertaken in 2015, the Group participated in the UK-wide concurrent stress testing run by the Bank of England, comfortably exceeding both the capital and leverage minimum thresholds.
Capital management in 2015 The continued strengthening of the Groups capital position during 2015, through a combination of increased underlying profits, net of PPI and other conduct charges, and a reduction in risk-weighted assets, provided the Group with the ability to pay both an interim dividend at half year and to recommend the payment of both a full year ordinary dividend and a special dividend whilst maintaining strong capital ratios.
The CET1 ratio before dividends in respect of 2015 increased 0.9 percentage points from 12.8 per cent to 13.7 per cent.
The CET1 ratio after dividends in respect of 2015 was unchanged at 12.8 per cent, increasing to 13.0 per cent on a pro-forma basis upon recognition of the dividend paid by the Insurance business in February 2016 in relation to its 2015 earnings.
The leverage ratio after dividends in respect of 2015 reduced from 4.9 per cent to 4.8 per cent.
The transitional total capital ratio after dividends in respect of 2015 reduced 0.5 percentage points from 22.0 per cent to 21.5 per cent.
Dividends The Group has established a dividend policy that is both progressive and sustainable.
We expect ordinary dividends to increase over the medium term to a dividend payout ratio of at least 50 per cent of sustainable earnings.
The Board interprets progressive to indicate a dividend per share that is expected to increase over the medium term.
Sustainable earnings represents the long term earnings generation of the business.
Sustainable earnings are defined as earnings after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted to remove the effects of market volatility, exceptional conduct or litigation events, major liability management or restructuring and other one off items such as the sale of businesses, and exceptional underlying business performance.
The Board also gives due consideration to the distribution of surplus capital through the use of special dividends or share buy-backs.
Surplus capital represents capital over and above the amount management wish to retain to grow the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties.
The amount of required capital may vary from time to time depending on circumstances and the Board will continue to give due consideration, subject to the situation at the time, to the distribution of any surplus capital.
By its nature, there can be no guarantee that this level of special dividends or any surplus capital distribution will be appropriate in future years.
The ability of the Group to pay a dividend is also subject to constraints including the availability of distributable reserves, legal and regulatory restrictions and the financial and operating performance of the entity.
Distributable reserves are determined as required by the Companies Act 2006 by reference to a companys individual financial statements.
At 31December 2015 Lloyds Banking Group plc the Company had accumulated distributable reserves of approximately 7,500 million.
Substantially all of the Companys merger reserve is available for distribution under UK company law as a result of transactions undertaken to recapitalise the Company in 2009.
161 Risk management Risk management continued Lloyds Banking Group plc acts as a holding company which also issues capital and other securities to capitalise and fund the activities of the Group.
The profitability of the holding company, and consequently its ability to sustain dividend payments, is therefore dependent upon the continued receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries representing both banking and Insurance.
A number of Group subsidiaries, principally those with banking and insurance activities, are also subject to regulatory capital requirements.
These require entities to maintain minimum amounts of capital related to their size and risk.
The principal operating subsidiary is Lloyds Bank plc which, at 31 December 2015, had a consolidated CET1 capital ratio of 15.2 per cent 31December2014: 15.1 per cent.
The Group actively manages the capital of its subsidiaries, which includes monitoring the regulatory capital ratios for its banking and insurance subsidiaries against approved risk appetite limits.
It operates a formal capital management policy which requires all subsidiary entities to remit any surplus capital to their parent companies.
During 2014 and 2015 the Group has undertaken significant capital management actions in order to simplify the Groups internal capital structure and to ensure that profits generated by subsidiary entities can be more easily remitted to the Company.
These activities relate to a number of subsidiary entities, and include the court approved capital reductions by HBOS plc and Bank of Scotland plc, the part VII transfers within insurance businesses and obtaining PRA approval for our internal model, which will support the Solvency II capital regime for the Insurance subsidiaries with effect from 1January2016.
The Group remains strongly capitalised, increasing its CET1 capital ratio from 12.8 per cent at 31 December 2014 to 13.7 per cent pre 2015 dividends at 31 December 2015.
The interim and recommended final dividends totalling 2.25pence per ordinary share and the special dividend of 0.5 pence per ordinary share reduce the Groups CET1 ratio to 12.8 per cent.
Recognising the 2015 insurance dividend, paid in February 2016 following the implementation of Solvency II, this rises to13.0 per cent on a pro forma basis.
Capital position at 31 December 2015 The Groups capital position as at 31 December 2015 is presented in the following section applying CRD IV transitional arrangements, as implemented in the UK by the PRA, and also on a fully loaded CRD IV basis.
The table below summarises the consolidated capital position of the Group.
The Groups Pillar 3 Report provides a comprehensive analysis of the own funds of the Group.
Table 1.55: Capital resources audited Transitional Fully loaded At 31 Dec At 31 Dec At 31 Dec At 31 Dec 2 2 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Capital resources Common equity tier 1 Shareholders equity per balance sheet 41,234 43,335 41,234 43,335 Adjustment to retained earnings for foreseeable dividends 1,427 535 1,427 535 1 Deconsolidation of insurance entities 1,199 623 1,199 623 Adjustment for own credit 67 158 67 158 Cash flow hedging reserve 727 1,139 727 1,139 Other adjustments 72 132 72 132 38,020 41,328 38,020 41,328 Deductions from common equity tier 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,719 1,875 1,719 1,875 1 Significant investments 2,723 2,546 2,752 2,546 Deferred tax assets 3,874 4,533 3,884 4,533 Other deductions 1,160 1,685 1,160 1,685 Common equity tier 1 capital 28,544 30,689 28,505 30,689 Additional tier 1 instruments 9,177 9,728 5,355 5,355 1 Deductions from tier 1 1,177 859 Total tier 1 capital 36,544 39,558 33,860 36,044 Tier 2 instruments and eligible provisions 13,208 14,530 9,189 11,169 1 Deductions from tier 2 1,756 1,288 2,933 2,146 Total capital resources 47,996 52,800 40,116 45,067 Risk-weighted assets unaudited 222,845 239,734 222,747 239,734 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.8% 12.8% 12.8% 12.8% Tier 1 capital ratio 16.4% 16.5% 15.2% 15.0% Total capital ratio 21.5% 22.0% 18.0% 18.8% 1 For regulatory capital purposes, the Groups Insurance business is deconsolidated and replaced by the amount of the Groups investment in the business.
A part of this amount is deducted from capital and the remaining amount is risk weighted, forming part of threshold risk-weighted assets.
2 Other comprehensive income related to the Groups Insurance business defined benefit pension scheme has been reclassified from common equity tier 1 other adjustments to deconsolidation of insurance entities.
162 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The key differences between the transitional capital calculation as at 31December 2015 and the fully loaded equivalent are as follows: Capital securities that previously qualified as tier 1 or tier 2 capital, but do not fully qualify under CRD IV, can be included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital as applicable up to specified limits which reduce by 10percent per annum until 2022.
The significant investment deduction from additional tier 1 AT1 will gradually transition to tier 2.
The movements in the transitional CET1, AT1, tier 2 and total capital positions in the period are provided below.
Table 1.56: Movements in capital resources Common equity Additional tier 1 tier 1 Tier 2 Total capital m m m m At 31December 2014 30,689 8,869 13,242 52,800 1 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 434 434 Eligible minority interest 470 470 Movement in foreseeable dividends 892 892 Dividends paid out on ordinary shares during the year 1,070 1,070 Movement in treasury shares and employee share schemes 537 537 Available-for-sale reserves 371 371 Deferred tax assets 659 659 Movements in subordinated debt 551 1,210 1,761 Significant investments 177 318 468 963 Other movements 279 112 167 At 31 December 2015 28,544 8,000 11,452 47,996 1 Under the regulatory framework, profits made by Insurance are removed from CET1 capital.
However, when dividends are paid to the Group by Insurance these can then be recognised as CET1capital.
CET1 capital resources have reduced by 2,145 million in the year largely as a result of dividends paid out during the year and the accrual of the full year ordinary dividend and special dividend, representing returns to ordinary shareholders following strong underlying profit generation.
Other reductions to CET1 capital primarily reflected the removal of eligible minority interest related to TSB and movements in treasury shares, employee share schemes and the AFS reserve.
These reductions in CET 1 capital were partially offset by reductions in both the deferred tax asset deduction and the excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and value adjustments.
AT1 capital resources have reduced by 869 million in the year, primarily reflecting the annual reduction in the transitional limit applied to grandfathered AT1 capital instruments and an increase in the significant investments deduction.
Tier 2 capital resources have reduced by 1,790 million in the year largely reflecting calls and redemptions, amortisation of dated instruments, foreign exchange movements and an increase in the significant investments deduction, partly offset by the issuance of new tier 2 instruments.
Table 1.57: Risk-weighted assets At 31 December At 31 December 2015 2014 m m IRB Approach 151,563 160,603 Standardised Approach 20,443 25,444 Contributions to the default fund of a central counterparty 488 515 Credit risk 172,494 186,562 Counterparty credit risk 7,981 9,108 Credit valuation adjustment risk 1,684 2,215 Operational risk 26,123 26,279 Market risk 3,775 4,746 Underlying risk-weighted assets 212,057 228,910 1 Threshold risk-weighted assets 10,788 10,824 Total risk-weighted assets 222,845 239,734 2 Movement to fully loaded risk-weighted assets 98 Fully loaded risk-weighted assets 222,747 239,734 1 Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the element of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of deducted from CET1 capital.
Significant investments primarily arise from the investment in the Groups Insurance business.
2 Differences may arise between transitional and fully loaded threshold risk-weighted assets where deferred tax assets reliant on future profitability and arising from temporary timing differences and significant investments exceed the fully loaded threshold limit, resulting in an increase in amounts deducted from CET1 capital rather than being risk-weighted.
At 31 December 2014 the fully loaded threshold was not exceeded and therefore no further adjustment was applied to the transitional threshold risk-weighted assets.
163 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.58: Risk-weighted assets movement by key driver Counter party Operational 1 1 Credit risk credit risk Market risk risk Total m m m m m Risk-weighted assets at 31December2014 186,562 11,323 4,746 26,279 228,910 Management of the balance sheet 1,772 474 838 460 Disposals 8,582 115 8,697 External economic factors 6,370 518 80 6,808 Model and methodology changes 888 551 213 1,652 Other 156 156 Risk-weighted assets 172,494 9,665 3,775 26,123 212,057 2 Threshold risk-weighted assets 10,788 Total risk-weighted assets 222,845 3 Movement to fully loaded risk-weighted assets 98 Fully loaded risk-weighted assets 222,747 1 Credit risk includes movements in contributions to the default fund of central counterparties and counterparty credit risk includes the movements in credit valuation adjustment risk.
2 Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the element of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of deducted from CET1 capital.
3 Differences may arise between transitional and fully loaded threshold risk-weighted assets where deferred tax assets reliant on future profitability and arising from temporary timing differences and significant investments exceed the fully loaded threshold limit, resulting in an increase in amounts deducted from CET1 capital rather than being risk-weighted.
At 31December 2014 the fully loaded threshold was not exceeded and therefore no further adjustment was applied to the transitional threshold risk-weighted assets.
The risk-weighted assets movement tables provide analyses of the reduction in risk-weighted assets in the period by risk type and an insight into the key drivers of the movements.
The key driver analysis is compiled on a monthly basis through the identification and categorisation of risk-weighted asset movements and is subject to management judgment.
Credit risk-weighted assets reductions of 14.1billion were driven by the following key movements: Management of the balance sheet includes risk-weighted asset movements arising from new lending and asset run-off.
During 2015, credit risk-weighted assets increased by 1.8billion, primarily as a result of targeted net lending growth in core businesses, as well as an increase in risk-weighted assets for the Groups strategic equity investments.
Disposals include risk-weighted asset reductions arising from the sale of assets, portfolios and businesses.
Disposals reduced credit risk-weighted assets by 8.6 billion, primarily driven by the completion of the sale of TSB as well as disposals in the run-off business.
External economic factors capture movements driven by changes in the economic environment.
The reduction in credit risk-weighted assets of 6.4billion is mainly due to improvements in credit quality, which primarily impacted the Retail and Consumer Finance businesses, and favourable movements in HPI that benefited retail mortgage portfolios.
Model and methodology reductions of 0.9 billion include the movement in credit risk-weighted assets arising from model and methodology refinements and changes in credit risk approach applied to certain portfolios.
Counterparty credit risk and CVA risk reductions of 1.7billion are principally driven by trading activity and compressions, hedging and yield curve movements.
Risk-weighted assets related to market risk reduced by 1.0 billion primarily due to active portfolio management and model and methodology refinements.
Leverage ratio In January 2015 the existing CRD IV rules on the calculation of the leverage ratio were amended to align with the European Commissions interpretation of the revised Basel III leverage ratio framework.
The Groups leverage ratio has been calculated in accordance with the amended CRD IV rules on leverage.
The table on the next page summarises the component parts of the Groups leverage ratio.
Further analysis is provided in the Groups Pillar 3 Report.
164 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Table 1.59: Leverage ratio Fully loaded 1 At 31 Dec 2015 At 31 Dec 2014 m m Total tier 1 capital 33,860 36,044 Exposure measure Derivative financial instruments 29,467 36,128 Securities financing transactions SFTs 34,136 43,772 Loans and advances and other assets 743,085 774,996 Total statutory balance sheet assets 806,688 854,896 2 Deconsolidation and other adjustments 135,926 144,122 Derivatives adjustments 9,235 12,064 Counterparty credit risk add-on for SFTs 3,361 1,364 Off-balance sheet items 56,424 50,980 Regulatory deductions and other adjustments 9,112 10,362 Total exposure 712,200 740,692 Leverage ratio 4.8% 4.9% 1 Restated to align with the amended CRD IV rules on leverage implemented in January 2015.
2 Deconsolidation adjustments predominantly reflect the deconsolidation of assets related to Group subsidiaries that fall outside the scope of the Groups regulatory consolidation primarily the Groups insurance entities.
Key movements The Groups fully loaded leverage ratio reduced by 0.1 per cent to 4.8 per cent reflecting the impact of the reduction in tier 1 capital offset by the 28.5billion reduction in the exposure measure, the latter largely reflecting the reduction in balance sheet assets arising, in part, from the disposal ofTSB.
The derivatives exposure measure, representing derivative financial instruments per the balance sheet net of deconsolidation and derivatives adjustments, reduced by 3.7 billion reflecting a combination of market movements, trading activity and trade compressions and the recognition and subsequent deduction of receivable assets for eligible cash variation margin provided in derivative transactions.
The SFT exposure measure, representing SFTs per the balance sheet inclusive of deconsolidation adjustments and counterparty credit risk add-on, reduced by 9.7 billion primarily reflecting active balance sheet management and reduced trading volumes.
Off-balance sheet items increased by 5.4 billion, primarily reflecting an increase in new corporate lending facilities and corporate customer limits and an increase in new residential mortgage offers placed.
G-SIB requirements Although the Group is not currently classified as a Global Systemically Important Bank G-SIB, by virtue of the leverage exposure exceeding 200billion, the Group is required to report G-SIB metrics to the PRA.
The Groups metrics used within the 2015 Basel G-SIBs annual exercise will be disclosed from April 2016, and the results are expected to be made available by the Basel Committee later this year.
Insurance businesses The business transacted by the insurance companies within the Group comprises both life insurance business and general insurance business.
Life insurance business comprises unit-linked business, non-profit business and with-profits business.
On 31 December 2015, the long-term insurance business of seven life insurance companies within the Group were transferred to Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited CMIG pursuant to an insurance business transfer scheme, under Part VII of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Scottish Widows plc and CMIG hold the only with-profit funds managed by the Group, and the Scottish Widows plc with-profit fund was transferred to a new with-profit fund within CMIG.
On 31 December 2015, CMIG changed its name to Scottish Widows Limited SW Ltd, and Scottish Widows plc changed its name to SW Funding plc.
Each life insurance company within the Group is regulated by the PRA.
The PRA specifies the minimum amount of capital that must be held by each life insurance company within the Group.
Under the PRA rules, applying during the year, each life insurance company within the Group must hold assets in excess of the higher of: i the Pillar 1 amount, which is calculated by applying fixed percentages of mathematical reserves and capital at risk: and ii the Pillar 2 amount, which is derived from an economic capital assessment undertaken by each regulated life insurance company, which is reviewed by the PRA.
The minimum required capital must be maintained at all times throughout the year.
These capital requirements and the capital available to meet them are regularly estimated in order to ensure that capital maintenance requirements are being met.
During the year Scottish Widows Group Limited SWG was also subject to the capital adequacy requirements of the Insurance Group Directive IGD, which comprises the consolidated surplus of the Groups regulated insurance subsidiaries.
All minimum regulatory requirements of the life insurance companies are expected to be met during the year.
The new Solvency II regime for insurers and insurance groups is in force from 1 January 2016.
The insurance businesses are required to calculate capital requirements and available capital on a revised risk-based approach.
The insurance business of the Group will calculate regulatory capital from 1January 2016 on the basis of an internal model, which was approved by the PRA on 5December 2015.
The estimated solvency II capital ratio of SWG at 1January 2016 was 148 per cent before allowing for dividends.
165 Risk management Risk management continued REGULATORY AND LEGAL RISK Definition Regulatory and legal risk is defined as the risk that the Group is exposed to fines, censure, legal or enforcement action, civil or criminal proceedings in the courts or equivalent and risk that the Group is unable to enforce its rights as anticipated.
Risk appetite The Group has a zero risk appetite for material regulatory breaches or material legal incidents.
This appetite is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
To achieve this, the Group has policies, processes and standards which provide the framework for businesses and colleagues to operate in accordance with applicable laws including Codes of Practice, regulations, codes of conduct and legal obligations.
Exposures The Group periodically experiences material regulatory breaches and material legal incidents outside its risk appetite.
Exposure is also driven by significant ongoing and new legislation, regulation and court proceedings within the UK and overseas with which the Group has to comply, which in each case needs to be interpreted, implemented and embedded into day-to-day operational and business practices across the Group.
The industry continues to witness increased levels of government and regulatory intervention in the financial sector with increasing regulatory rules and laws from both the UK and overseas affecting the Groups operations.
Measurement Regulatory and legal risks are measured against a set of risk appetite metrics, with appropriate thresholds, which are approved annually by the Board and which are regularly reviewed and monitored.
Metrics include assessments of control and material regulatory rule breaches.
Mitigation Mitigation is undertaken across the Group and comprises the following key components: The Board establishes a group wide risk appetite and metrics for Regulatory and Legal Risk.
Group policies and procedures set out the principles and key controls that should apply across the business which are aligned to the group risk appetite.
Mandated policies and processes require appropriate control frameworks, management information, standards and colleague training to be implemented to identify and manage regulatory and legal risk.
Business units assess and implement policy and regulatory requirements and establish local controls to assure compliance.
Material risks and issues are escalated to divisional and then Group-level bodies which challenge and support the business on its management of them.
Business units produce regularly management information to assist in the identification of issues and test management controls are working effectively.
Risk Division and Legal provide oversight and proactive support and constructive challenge to the business in identifying and managing regulatory and legal issues.
When appropriate Risk Division will conduct thematic reviews of regulatory compliance across businesses and divisions.
Business units with the support of divisional and Group-Level bodies conduct ongoing horizon scanning to identify and address changes in regulatory and legal requirements.
Monitoring Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk Division where it is aggregated at Group level and a report prepared.
The report forms the basis of challenge to the business at the monthly Group Conduct, Compliance and Operational Risk Committee.
This committee may escalate matters to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees.
The report also forms the basis of the regulatory and legal sections in the Groups consolidated risk reporting.
INSURANCE RISK Definition Insurance risk is defined as the risk of adverse developments in the timing, frequency or severity of claims for insured underwritten events and in customer behaviour, leading to reductions or volatility in earnings and or value.
Risk appetite Insurance risk appetite in the Insurance business is set by the Insurance Board and includes capital and earnings limits on insurance risk drivers.
Insurance risk appetite for longevity in the defined benefit pension schemes is set by the Board using two key metrics: a one year increase to life expectancy, and a combined market and longevity stress.
For further information on risk appetite, refer to page 112.
Exposures The major sources of insurance risk within the Group are the Insurance business and the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
Longevity and persistency are key risks within the life and pensions business.
Longevity risk arises from the annuity portfolios where policyholders future cashflows are guaranteed at retirement and increases in life expectancy, beyond current assumptions, will increase the cost of annuities.
Longevity risk exposures are expected to increase following the 2015 entry into the bulk annuity market.
Persistency assumptions are set to give a best estimate however, customer behaviour may result in increased cancellations or cessation of contributions.
Property insurance risk is a key risk within the general insurance business, through Home Insurance, and exposures can arise, for example, in extreme weather conditions, such as flooding, when property damage claims are higher than expected.
The prime insurance risk of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is longevity.
166 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Measurement Insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including stress, reverse stress and scenario testing, as well as stochastic modelling.
Current and potential future insurance risk exposures are assessed and aggregated on a range of stresses including risk measures based on 1-in-200 year stresses for Insurances regulatory capital assessments Group defined benefit pension schemes utilise 1-in-20 year stresses and other supporting measures where appropriate, including those set out in note 34 to the financial statements.
Mitigation Insurance risk in the Insurance business is mitigated in a number of ways: Longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are considered on a regular basis.
A team of longevity and bulk pricing experts has been built to support the new bulk annuity proposition.
General insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements broadly spread over different reinsurers.
Detailed modelling, including that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of reinsurance arrangements.
Insurance processes on underwriting, claims management, pricing and product design.
Exposure limits by risk type are assessed through the business planning process and used as a control mechanism to ensure risks are taken within risk appetite.
The most significant insurance risk in the defined benefit pension schemes is longevity risk.
The merits of longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are regularly reviewed.
Monitoring Insurance risks in the Insurance business are monitored by Insurance senior executive Committees and ultimately the Insurance Board.
Governance of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes includes two specialist pension committees one Group executive sub-committee and a supporting management committee.
Significant risks from the Insurance business and the defined benefit pension schemes are reviewed by the Group executive and Group Risk Committees and or Board.
Insurance risk exposures within the Insurance business are monitored against risk appetite.
The Insurance business monitors experiences against expectations, for example business volumes and mix, claims and persistency experience.
The effectiveness of controls put in place to manage insurance risk is evaluated and significant divergences from experience or movements in risk exposures are investigated and remedial action taken.
Progress against risk appetite metrics in respect of longevity risk in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is regularly reported and reviewed by the relevant committees.
PEOPLE RISK Definition People risk is defined as the risk that the Group fails to lead, manage and enable colleagues to deliver to customers, shareholders and regulators leading to an inability to deliver the Groups strategy.
Risk appetite The Groups people risk appetite and corresponding measures enable the Group to lead responsibly and proficiently, manage people resources effectively, support and develop colleague talent, and meet legal and regulatory obligations related to its people.
The appetite is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
To stay within appetite, the Group has policies, processes and standards which provide the framework for business and colleagues to operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes which apply to the Group and its activities.
Exposures The Groups management of material people risks is critical to its capacity to deliver against its strategic objectives and to be the best bank for customers.
Over the coming year the Group anticipates the following key people risk exposures: The new Senior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR, which brings a statutory duty of responsibility and increased accountability may impact the Groups ability to attract and retain talent: Attracting and retaining talent may be impacted by a more active external market alongside increasing regulatory constraints around remuneration structures: The increasing digitisation of the business is changing the capability mix required and may impact our ability to attract and retain talent: Colleague engagement may continue to be challenged by ongoing media attention on banking sector culture, sales practices and ethical conduct: and Maintaining organisational people capability and capacity levels in response to increasing volumes of organisational and external market change.
Measurement People risk is measured through a series of quantitative and qualitative indicators, aligned to key sources of people risk for the Group such as succession, retention, colleague engagement and performance management.
In addition to risk appetite measures and limits, people risks and controls are monitored on a monthly basis via the Groups risk governance framework and reporting structures.
Mitigation The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to people risk.
Key areas of focus include: Working with the regulators to ensure their guidance on increased accountability in the new SM&CR strengthens remuneration governance to balance implementation costs with the benefits gained from enhanced governance: 167 Risk management Risk management continued Continued focus on the Groups culture by developing and delivering initiatives that reinforce the appropriate conduct behaviours which generate the best possible long-term outcomes for customers and colleagues: Maintain effective remuneration arrangements to ensure they promote an appropriate culture and colleague behaviours that meet customer needs and regulatory expectations: Focusing on leadership and colleague engagement, through delivery of strategies to attract, retain and develop high calibre people together with implementation of rigorous succession planning: Ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to SM&CR, embedding compliant and appropriate colleague behaviours in line with Group policies, values and its people risk priorities: and Ongoing consultation with the Groups recognised unions on changes which impact their members.
Monitoring People risks from across the Group are monitored and reported through Board and Group Governance Committees in accordance with the Groups Risk Management Framework and People Risk sub-framework.
Risk exposures are discussed monthly via the Group HR & People Risk Committee with upwards reporting to Group Risk and Executive Committees.
In addition oversight, challenge and reporting is completed at Risk Division level and combined with Risk Assurance reviews, is intended to assess the effectiveness of controls, recommending follow up remedial action if relevant.
All material People Risk events are escalated in accordance with the formal Group Operational Risk Policy and People Policies to the respective Divisional Managing Directors and the Group Director, Compliance, Conduct and Operational Risk.
FINANCIAL REPORTING RISK Definition Financial reporting risk is defined as the risk that the Group suffers reputational damage, loss of investor confidence and or financial loss arising from the adoption of inappropriate accounting policies, ineffective controls over financial and regulatory reporting, failure to manage the associated risks of changes in taxation rates, law, ownership or corporate structure and the failure to disclose accurate and timely information.
Risk appetite The risk appetite is set by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently.
It includes complying with statutory and regulatory reporting requirements and compliance with tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Exposures Exposure represents the sufficiency of the Groups policies and procedures to maintain adequate systems, processes and controls to support statutory, prudential regulatory and tax reporting, to prevent and detect financial reporting fraud, to manage the Groups tax position and to support market disclosures.
Measurement Financial reporting risk is measured by the adequacy of, and compliance with, a number of key controls.
Identification of potential financial reporting risk also forms a part of the Groups Operational Risk management framework.
Mitigation The Group maintains a system of internal controls, which is designed to: ensure that accounting policies are consistently applied, transactions are recorded and undertaken in accordance with delegated authorities, that assets are safeguarded and liabilities are properly recorded: enable the calculation, preparation and reporting of financial, prudential regulatory and tax outcomes in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards, statutory and regulatory requirements: and ensure that disclosures are made on a timely basis in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements and as far as possible are consistent with best practice and in compliance with the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
Monitoring Financial reporting risk is actively monitored at business unit and Group levels.
There are specific programmes of work undertaken across the Group to support: annual assessments of i the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting: and ii the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, both in accordance with the requirements of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act: and annual certifications by the Senior Accounting Officer with respect to the maintenance of appropriate tax accounting arrangements, in accordance with the requirements of the 2009 Finance Act.
The Group also has in place an assurance process to support its prudential regulatory reporting and monitoring activities designed to identify and review tax exposures on a regular basis.
There is ongoing monitoring to assess the impact of emerging regulation and legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting.
The Group has a Disclosure Committee which assists the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in fulfilling their disclosure responsibilities under relevant listing and other regulatory and legal requirements.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the quality and acceptability of the Groups financial disclosures.
For further information on the Audit Committees responsibilities relating to financial reporting see pages74 to 77.
168 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE RISK Definition Governance risk is defined as the risk that the Groups organisational infrastructure fails to provide robust oversight of decision making and the control mechanisms to ensure strategies and management instructions are implemented effectively.
Risk appetite Governance risk appetite is defined and embedded through the Groups Governance Principle and Policy Framework which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
The Group has governance arrangements that support the effective long-term operation of the business and the vision of being the best bank for customers, maximise shareholder value and meet regulatory and social expectations.
Exposures The internal and corporate governance arrangements of major financial institutions continue to be subject to a high level of regulatory and public scrutiny.
The Groups exposure to governance risk is also reflective of the significant volume of existing and proposed legislation and regulation within the UK and overseas with which it must comply.
Risk governance and risk culture are mutually reinforcing.
Measurement The Groups governance arrangements are assessed against new or proposed legislation and regulation and best practice among peer organisations in order to identify any areas of enhancement required.
Mitigation The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF establishes robust arrangements for risk governance, in particular by: Defining individual and collective accountabilities for risk management, risk oversight and risk assurance through a Three Lines of Defence model which supports the discharge of responsibilities to customers, shareholders and regulators: Outlining governance arrangements which articulate the enterprise-wide approach to risk management: and Supporting a consistent approach to Groupwide behaviour and risk decision making through a Group Policy Framework which helps everyone understand their responsibilities by clearly articulating and communicating rules, boundaries and risk appetite measures which can be controlled, enforced and monitored.
Under the banner of the RMF, training modules are in place to support all colleagues in understanding and fulfilling their risk responsibilities.
The Ethics and Responsible Business Policy and supporting Codes of Personal Responsibility and Business Responsibility embody the Groups values and reflect its commitment to operating responsibly and ethically both at a business and an individual level.
All colleagues are required to adhere to the Codes in all aspects of their roles.
Driving adherence to the Groups RMF goes hand in glove with its approach to risk culture which is embedded in the Groups approach to recruitment, selection, training, performance management and reward.
Monitoring A review of the Groups RMF, which includes the status of the Groups Principles and Policy Framework, and the design and operational effectiveness of key governance committees, is undertaken on an annual basis and the findings are reported to the Group Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board.
This includes a review of the Groups current approach to governance and ongoing initiatives in light of the latest regulatory guidance, including in 2015 evolution of frameworks to address Senior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR requirements and the recommendations from a third party review of the Three Lines of Defence.
For further information on Corporate Governance see pages60 to 81.
169 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: FINANCIAL Lloyds Banking Group plcs consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted STATEMENTS by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated Independent auditors report 171 16.
Subordinated liabilities financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Loans and advances to banks 41.
Loans and advances to customers 42.
Share premium account Consolidated statement What we have audited of comprehensive income 180 19.
Other reserves The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: Consolidated balance sheet 181 20.
Retained profits the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2015: Consolidated statement 21.
Other equity instruments the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: of changes in equity 183 on loans and receivables 46.
Dividends on ordinary shares the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended: Consolidated cash flow statement 186 22.
Share-based payments the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and 23.
Held-to-maturity investments the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Contingent liabilities and commitments Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are Notes to the consolidated 25.
Value of in-force business cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Basis of preparation The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 51.
Transfers of financial assets European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities 28.
Financial risk management Our audit approach judgements 29.
Consolidated cash flow statement Overview 4.
Disposal of interest in TSBBanking Group plc Set out below is an overview of our audit approach, highlighting key aspects including materiality level, scope and areas of focus of our audit.
Trading and other financial liabilities 56.
Events since the balance sheet date These are described in further detail later in this audit report.
at fair value through profit or loss 6.
Net fee and commission income 57.
Net trading income Materiality Overall Group materiality: 300 million which represents 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit before tax.
Profit was adjusted to remove the effect of certain items which were considered to have a disproportionate 33.
Liabilities arising from insurance contracts 8.
Life insurance sensitivity analysis Audit scope The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by 10.
Insurance claims our risk assessment, the financial significance of reporting units and other qualitative factors including history 35.
Operating expenses of misstatement through fraud or error.
Other liabilities We performed audit procedures over reporting units considered financially significant in the context of the 13.
Taxation Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific 37.
Retirement benefit obligations account balances.
We also performed other procedures including testing entity level controls, information 14.
Deferred tax technology general controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement 15.
Trading and other financial assets 39.
Other provisions in the residual reporting units.
at fair value through profit or loss Areas of focus The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: Credit risk and impairment of loans and advances Uncertain tax positions to customers Recognition of deferred tax assets Parent company balance sheet 280 Notes to the parent company Conduct risk and provisions financial statements 283 Valuation of pension obligations Parent company statement Actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of insurance of changes in equity 281 1.
Accounting policies Fair value adjustments applied to uncollateralised contracts liabilities and assets representing the value of derivative financial instruments Parent company cash flow statement 282 2.
Amounts due from subsidiaries in-force business Sale of TSB Banking Group plc 3.
Share capital, share premium Hedge accounting and other equity instruments 4.
Other reserves The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 5.
Retained profits We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Subordinated liabilities We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Debt securities in issue at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 8.
Related party transactions considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors or management that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Other information The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 75.
