Governance Report of the Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee Donald Brydon CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee members as at 31 December 2015 Non-Executive Director Appointments were Donald Brydon Chairman, Paul Heiden, Stephen OConnor The Committee considered wider Board composition and appointed Mary and Mary Schapiro appointed to the Committee in December 2015.
Schapiro, David Nish and Lex Hoogduin to the Board during 2015.
Mary was The Committees role is to review the size, structure and skills of appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015 and brings the Board, consider succession planning and make recommendations experience of US markets and regulation.
We also identified the need for greater to the Board on potential candidates for Board membership.
FTSE 100 and Investor experience within the Board and David Nish was appointed on 4 December 2015 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Further, given the importance of LCH.
Clearnet to the Group, the Board also agreed to appoint This year the Committees work has focused on Chairman and Board succession the LCH.
Clearnet Group Chairman, Lex Hoogduin, to the London Stock Exchange planning which it did in 6 formal meetings and frequent informal exchanges.
Group plc Board as a non-independent, Non-Executive Director on 4 December The Committees main activities included: 2015.
The Committee was again supported by Spencer Stuart.
overseeing the appointment of a new Chairman to replace Chris GibsonSmith, which was led by the Senior Independent Director supported by Gender Diversity other members of the Nomination Committee The Board and the Committee supports the Davies Reviews conclusion that greater efforts should be made in improving the gender balance of corporate advising the Board on the continued refreshment of its composition and boards and that quotas for female Board representation are not the preferred leadership having considered the existing skills, knowledge, independence approach.
The Committee and the Board have sought to ensure that appointments and experience of the Board are of the best candidates to promote the success of the Company and the Group and that appointments are based on merit, with due regard for the benefits of Appointment of Chairman diversity on the Board, including gender.
Mary Schapiro was appointed to the The Committee retained the services of executive search consultants, Spencer Board in July 2015.
The Boards diversity policy can be found at: www.
com Stuart, who worked closely with the Senior Independent Director and members   ethics-andof the Nomination Committee to identify the new Chairman.
Further details of the Companys approach to diversity can be found provision of these services and services relating to appointments to the Board at page 37. of London Stock Exchange Group plc and its subsidiaries, Spencer Stuart has no connection with London Stock Exchange Group.
A number of high calibre candidates were identified, evaluated and screened by the consultants and the Nomination Committee and other members of the Board.
Donald Brydon An initial long list was considered by the Committee after which a short list was Chairman created.
All candidates on the short list were interviewed by the members of the 4 March 2016 Committee and the CEO.
I was appointed having met all Board members and following a decision of the Board.
