London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Report of the Risk Committee Stephen OConnor Chairman of the Risk Committee The Risk Committee members as at 31 December 2015 were Stephen OConnor, Priorities in the forthcoming year will be to oversee the further embedding Paul Heiden, Stuart Lewis, Andrea Munari and David Nish.
of core Risk Management standards across all the Groups entities and on the monitoring of the risk culture of the enlarged Group.
The Committee will continue This report is intended to give an overview of the role of to review, on a rotational basis, the risk profile of each of the Groups main lines the Risk Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight of business and key legal entities.
The Committee will also analyse and respond responsibilities for Risk Management and the adequacy of the to emerging risks which might arise from the changing macroeconomic climate systems of internal controls in place to mitigate key risks.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Committee met 4 times.
A key focus of the Committee was further developing and embedding a robust risk culture framework that represents the foundation for the strong Risk Management capabilities in the Company.
During the year, the Committee oversaw the risk assessment and integration of the Index operations of the Frank Russell Company.
Stephen OConnor In addition, the development of an economic capital model and other tools to Chairman of the Risk Committee manage the financial and strategic risks of the enlarged Group were areas of 4 March 2016 focus, together with the adequacy of the Groups cyber security framework.
The Committee is responsible for recommending Risk Appetite to the Board and for monitoring risk compared to the agreed appetite.
The Group Risk Appetite was refreshed and ratified by the Board during the year.
68 Governance Report of the Risk Committee Composition and responsibilities The adequacy of the Business Continuity Management plans and The Committee is chaired by Stephen OConnor who provides recent and relevant management programme financial and Risk Management experience through his career in a variety of Approval and recommendation for approval of key risk policies and senior executive roles in the financial services industry.
In addition, the Board is risk committees terms of reference satisfied that each member of the Committee has the skills and experience necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
Recommendation by the Chairman to the Remuneration Committee Details of the members of the Risk Committee are provided on pages 68. on Executive performance related to risk culture awareness, transparency and accountability In order to avoid potential duplication of coverage by the Audit and Risk Regular reviews of the risk profile of the 2 largest business areas: Committees, and more importantly, to reduce the potential for non-coverage of LCH.
Clearnet and of FTSE Russell of important risk matters, the Chairmen of both the Risk and Audit Committees sit on both Committees.
The monitoring of the roll out of the mandatory training programme on ethics, risks, controls and compliance Further details of who normally attends meetings and the Committees terms In addition, the Committee reviews the risk profile of the Group on a regular of reference, which are approved by the Board and reviewed on an ongoing basis, basis and comments on the adequacy of the processes in place to identify and are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the corporate governance report on key risks.
It also reviews the risk profile of the major Group subsidiaries section of the Companys website at www.
divisions on an individual basis.
During the year, it reviewed the LCH.
Clearnet and the FTSE risk profiles.
It advises the Board on the Companys overall risk appetite, Activities tolerance and strategy, and keeps under review the adequacy of the Enterprise The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters for Risk Management Framework and its use in the decision-making process, which which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate meeting.
includes the review of parameters used in the models and methodology adopted.
During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in It sets the standards for the accurate and timely reporting of key risks and for its terms of reference by reviewing the following: certain risk types of critical importance, such as technology, business resilience, CCP operations, counterparty and reputation risks.
It also receives reports on Robust reviews of principal risks compliance with relevant regulatory requirements for each regulated entity The reports on risk exposures of the Company and on emerging risks of the Group.
Review and recommendation to the Board of the Group Risk Appetite, Risk Management function including scenarios testing results During the year, the risk function continued embedding the Groups EnterpriseThe further development and implementation of the Companys Group-wide wide Risk Management Framework across all the Group subsidiaries divisions counterparty risk aggregation and monitoring the VaR model through the monitoring of key risk indicators.
It also implemented a Group-wide counterparty VaR model and will focus on the further development of Group The monitoring of the delivery of actions to manage risks within risk appetite Economic Capital model.
The effectiveness programme in place to further align the Risk Management Framework of the Group and its subsidiaries The function is centralised at Group level with the exception of the Groups clearing houses which have their own risk teams in compliance with the EMIR The oversight of the FTSE Frank Russell Index business integration requirements.
The risk functions main role is to maintain a fit for purpose Group Regulatory compliance reports and the actions in place to ensure Enterprise Risk Management Framework and recommend to the Risk Committee ongoing compliance and to the Board Risk Appetite statements.
It reviews and monitors the risk profile of the Group and of its subsidiaries and ensures it remains within risk appetite.
The review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of the internal controls in place to manage key risks The function supports the Risk Committee members by providing reports on The effectiveness of the Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework the Groups risk profile and timely escalation of exceptions.
It also monitors and of the Risk function compliance with rules and regulations and develops and maintains frameworks to facilitate the identification, assessment, reporting and monitoring of all the The monitoring of the Frank Russell IM business, held for sale, principal risks that could materially impact the reputation, financial position risk and compliance management or operations of the Group.
Information provided by the risk function informs Pension plan strategic reviews the Committee on the risk culture of the Group.
The adequacy of the counterparty limits The risk function is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who oversees all aspects of Compliance with the Group Risk Management procedures as described Risk Management in the Group.
She reports to the Chief Executive Officer and, for in the section on internal controls on page 60 independence purposes, to the Chairman of the Risk Committee.
The Committee must be consulted on the appointment or the dismissal of the Chief Risk Officer.
The Committee meets with the CRO without the presence of management on a regular basis.
