London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Report of the Audit Committee Paul Heiden Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee members as at 31 December 2015 were: Paul Heiden The Committee reviewed and discussed the results of the external assessment Senior Independent Director, Jacques Aigrain, Baroness Sharon Bowles, of the Group Internal Audit function performed by a specialised expert firm David Nish and Stephen OConnor.
as per the guidelines of the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
The review was performed between March and July 2015.
The Internal Audit function was This report is intended to give an overview of the role of the rated as Generally conforms to the IIA standards which is the highest rating Audit Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight available for an external assessment.
In addition the Group Internal Audit responsibilities relating to the monitoring of the system of function achieved the highest rating on all the standards examined 44 in total.
internal control, the independence of the external auditors The external assessor also highlighted areas for further improvement in and the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
It details methodology and communication which are being addressed as part of the activities, discussions and decisions that enabled the an action plan approved by the Audit Committee Audit Committee to effectively fulfil its objectives during 2015.
Priorities in the forthcoming year will include: During the year, the Committee focused on the key following priorities: Receiving assurance that the control environment remains robust to support The Committee continued to monitor the sale of the Investment Management the continued growth and diversification of the Groups activities: including all division of the Frank Russell Company, including the review of the tax and major projects, as well as key processes such as Business Continuity Planning accounting implications of the transaction.
The Committee satisfied itself and disaster recovery that the Executives in charge were managing all the aspects of the Monitoring the progress of the integration of the Russell Index business transaction effectively with the existing FTSE platform The Committee received and discussed the external audit management Closely following the implementation and testing of the final phases of the letter from Ernst & Young LLP EY.
The letter highlighted a number of new global finance system areas for improvement, in particular regarding the formalisation and better documentation of some control activities.
These were noted by the Receiving early and continuous understanding of the impact of the Groups Committee for follow-up acquisitions and divestitures on financial and tax accounting The Committee discussed and approved the tax strategy of the Group in the context of changes in the tax landscape in the UK and abroad, in particular HMRCs consultation on UK Large Business Compliance and the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project BEPS.
The Committee agreed that the Groups tax strategy continued to support the delivery of the Groups corporate and risk management objectives in an efficient manner and Paul Heiden in compliance with all fiscal, legal and regulatory requirements Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee continued to monitor the alignment of the control environment 4 March 2016 of recent acquisitions with the Group internal control framework.
It satisfied itself that these acquisitions including the index division of the Frank Russell Company were being integrated according to plan and were meeting the financial objectives of the Group The Committee discussed a number of internal audit reports during the year and satisfied itself that management action plans were in place to address the recommended improvements The Committee received reports from Group Finance on the status of the implementation of the new Group-wide financial system throughout the year and satisfied itself that the project remained on track to deliver a more efficient process for financial reporting in 2016 64 Governance Report of the Audit Committee Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal 1.
Financial reporting Audit, Group Chief Risk Officer and the external auditors are standing invitees The Committee recommends the financial statements of the Group to the Board, to all Audit Committee meetings.
In addition, various other members of including the annual and half-yearly reports, preliminary results announcements management are invited from time to time to present specific matters relevant and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, to the Committees remit.
reviewing the significant financial reporting judgements that they contain.
The Committee met 4 times during the year.
Internal controls and Risk Management systems The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups system Further details on the functioning of the Audit Committee can be found in of internal control and Risk Management.
In order to do this, the Committee the Committees terms of reference which are reviewed annually and available considers reports from Executive Management, the Risk Management function from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate governance section and the Internal Audit function.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations of the Groups website at: www.
com  to the Board regarding the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and Risk  .
Management systems and recommends to the Board the statements to be included in the Annual Report concerning internal controls and Risk Management Activities in 2015 in collaboration with the Risk Committee.
The Committee also monitors and The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters for reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, ensuring that which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate meeting.
it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to perform The agenda for each meeting was determined by the key events of the annual its function independently from Executive Management.
financial reporting cycle, the risks identified by the Committee and the standing items under its terms of reference.
The following provides details on how the 3.
External auditors Committee discharged its responsibilities during the year as set in its terms The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor and meets of reference: with the external auditor at the start of each Committee meeting, without Executive Management being present, to discuss their remit and any issues Financial matters: arising from their audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets with With regards to financial matters, the Committee reviewed, discussed and the external auditor for the year end and half year review of the accounts.
approved the half year and full year financial results.
It reviewed, discussed and The Committee reviews and approves the annual audit plan, ensures that it approved key accounting judgements, the annual review for goodwill impairment is consistent with the Committees view of the scope of the audit engagement and managements view of commitments and contingencies and the adequacy and reviews the quality of the findings of the audit with the external auditor.
The Committee monitors and reviews the objectivity and independence of the external auditors including the non-audit activities performed by the auditors Finally, the Committee also thoroughly reviewed and discussed the divestiture for the Group see the External Auditors section below for more details.
The of the Investment Management division of the Frank Russell Company and Committee ensures that the external audit services contract is put out to tender its impact on the Groups accounts as well as other smaller M&A activities.
on a periodic basis in line with existing best practices.
The Committee oversees For more details on the main discussions and decisions reached by the Committee the selection process for new auditors and if an auditor resigns the Committee on financial matters see the section below entitled Significant matters impacting investigates the issues leading to this and decides whether any action is required.
the financial statements and Other topics of discussion in respect to the financial statements.
The Committee has compiled with the relevant parts of the Competition and Markets Authority Final Order on the statutory audit market for the year ended Internal controls: 31 December 2015.
The Committee continued to exercise disciplined oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls throughout the year.
Other matters its responsibilities by reviewing and discussing regular reports from the Treasury external auditors, the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions as The Committee approves the taking of any actions which fall outside the Group well as from external experts, including: Treasury Policy and considers material financing and treasury transactions Reports on compliance with the Code internal controls reserved for the Board ahead of review by the Board.
including whistle-blowing at half year and year end Whistleblowing and fraud Quarterly updates on internal audit plans including internal control The Committee reviews the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise issues raised and management actions to remedy the deficiencies concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other Annual Report on the performance of internal audit matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action.
The Committee obtained additional comfort by meeting with the Head of Internal The Committee also reviews the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and for Audit at each Audit Committee meeting without Executive Management present.
The Audit Committee also reviewed and approved the updated Internal Audit Composition and meetings charter, reviewed the internal audit manual and approved the internal audit plan The Committee meets the requirements of the Code.
It is comprised of 5 including the auditing approach, the coverage and the allocation of resources independent Non-Executive Directors who all bring recent and relevant financial for the function.
It is chaired by Paul Heiden who is a qualified chartered accountant with a career in a variety of senior finance roles.
The other members are Jacques The activities of the Committee related to internal controls enabled it to satisfy Aigrain, Sharon Bowles, David Nish appointed to the Committee on 9 December itself that the Internal Audit function is independent, objective and adequately 2015 and Stephen OConnor.
The skills and experience of each Committee staffed to perform its duties.
In addition the Committee relied on the assurance member are provided in the Board of Directors section on pages 5456. process throughout the year to recommend to the full Board that it could report to shareholders on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control system.
The Board statement can be found on page 91.
65 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Report of the Audit Committee continued Oversight of the external auditors: In each case, the Audit Committee concluded, on the balance of risks, that the The Committee assessed the independence and quality of the Groups external appointment of EY represented the most effective, secure and efficient way auditors EY throughout the year.
It received interim reports from EY on the of obtaining the necessary advice and services, given their knowledge of our status of their plan and the results of their work.
The external auditors reports business and the Groups structure and accounting and tax affairs, together were discussed at each Committee meeting and their views and opinions used with their wider knowledge of our industry sector.
to challenge decisions by Group Finance.
In addition the Committee held separate meetings with EYs partners at each Committee meeting without management The Committees responsibility to monitor and review the objectivity and being present.
independence of the external auditors is supported by a policy on audit and non-audit services supplied by the auditors of the Group and of its subsidiaries.
The Audit Committee also received a report from management on their This policy is available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate evaluation of the effectiveness of the external auditors.
This report assessed governance section of the Groups website at: www.
com about-londonthe quality of the auditors across a number of areas and measures of relevance stock-exchange-group  .
and quality of their work as well as their level of independence.
Other matters: On the basis of their own interaction with EY and with the support of As part of its regular annual activities the Committee assessed its own Managements report, the Audit Committee confirmed that the services effectiveness, and reviewed and updated its terms of reference to reflect the provided by EY were appropriate and in compliance with relevant auditor changes in the Group and the corporate governance context.
There were no major independence and integrity rules.
modifications to the functioning of the Committee resulting from these activities.
The Committee approved the EY audit plan, the methodology used, the scope Significant matters impacting the financial statements of the audits by location, the risks and areas of focus as well as the materiality threshold for the Group and the threshold for reporting unadjusted audit Significant matters differences.
The Group materiality remained fixed as a percentage of Profit for January How the Committee reviewed these matters 1 Before Tax PBT but the change from a 9 month period AprilDec 2014 December 2015 and what decisions were taken to a 12 month period JanDec 2015 has resulted in an increase in materiality Revenue recognition The Audit Committee reviewed the external auditors in absolute value.
comments on the recognition of some revenues see EY audit opinion on page 92.
The Audit Report on external auditors and safeguards on non-audit services Committee was satisfied that sufficient analysis A breakdown of audit and non-audit service fees paid and payable to the external had been performed in this area and that the Finance auditors for the year ended 31 December 2015 and prior period is provided below function had put in place a plan to ensure that all and in note 35 to the financial statements.
On 12 June 2014, the Group appointed aged accruals are reviewed on a timely basis.
EY as its external auditors, replacing  LLP PwC.
Goodwill and The Audit Committee considered the approach Year ended Period ended intangibles and methodology applied to performing the annual 31 December 31 December impairment goodwill impairment assessment as well as the 2015 2014 assessment assessment for indications of impairment of other m m intangible assets as required under IAS 36, including Audit services the key assumptions for short and long-term growth Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.5 0.7 rates, cash-flow expectations and the discount rate Audit of subsidiary companies 1.5 1.0 used for the Groups cost of capital.
The impairment Audit related assurance services 0.2 0.3 review was also an area of focus for the external Other non-audit services: auditors, who reported their findings to the Committee.
Taxation 0.3 0.1 Details can be found in note 14 to the financial Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 statements on pages 122124.
Total expenses 2.6 2.2 Other nonThe principal non-recurring costs recognised relate to recurring items costs incurred in relation to the Russell separation and The Chair of the Committee reviewed each of these individual appointments on potential disposal and the final fees for the acquisition their merits.
Prior to EY being engaged, the review process involved considering of the Frank Russell Company.
managements assessment of: Details of non-recurring items can be found in note 7 which accounting firms had the appropriate experience and expertise on page 116. to undertake the work whether there were any conflicts of interest for EY whether the conflicts of interest that existed for other potential firms, who were either advising other parties to the transactions or were auditors of the other company, could be appropriately managed the quantum of non-audit fees in the context of the overall audit fee and relative significance to EY in the context of its total client fees 1.
The PBT measure is adjusted for certain items at the Committees request such as the exclusion of the results of the Investment Management division of the Frank Russell Company.
This is noted in the EY audit opinion on page 92.
66 Governance Report of the Audit Committee Other topics of discussion in respect to the financial statements: Fair balanced and understandable Annual Report Commitments and contingencies: The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Annual Report is fair, balanced The Audit Committee considered the facts and circumstances surrounding and understandable and has presented its conclusions to the Board of the commitments and contingencies for the Group.
The Committee agreed that Group.
In order to reach its conclusions, the Audit Committee examined the no provision needed to be recorded in the financial statements.
See note 29 following criteria: on page 141.
Fair: Non-recurring items: The Annual Report does not omit important or sensitive elements The Committee discussed and agreed on non-recurring items in the necessary to understand the strategy, performance and business model financial statements for the year.
These are presented on page 116 of the of the Group financial statements.
Segmental reporting accurately describes the various activities of the Disposal of the Investment Management division of the Group and their relative contributions to the strategy, performance and Frank Russell Company: business model of the Group On 8 October 2015, the Group announced that it had agreed the proposed sale The messages in the Strategic Report and the CEO and Chairmans reports of Frank Russell Companys asset management business Russell Investments are consistent with the financial reporting section to TA Associates.
The gross proceeds will be US$1,150 million 752 million in cash.
This transaction is subject to achieving regulatory and other approvals.
Balanced: Completion will occur in H1 2016.
The disclosures that were prepared for reporting Russell Investments as held for sale for the interim report have been replicated There is an appropriate balance between the required statutory accounting in the Annual Report.
For more details please see the note on discontinued metrics and Group-specific adjusted measures operations note 10 on pages 118120.
The messages in all sections appropriately balance the favourable and less favourable events and trends affecting the strategy and performance of Disposal of Proquote UK: the Group On 15 September 2015 the Group confirmed the sale of Proquote to IRESS for c. 22 million.
This transaction was completed at the end of October 2015 The principal risks presented in the Strategic Report on pages 4653 and recognised as a non-recurring profit.
For more details please refer to the accurately reflect the risk registers which are used to set the risk appetite note on discontinued operations note 10 on pages 118120. and the strategy of the Group, including those risks which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity Financial viability statement The Financial viability statement was introduced by the Code in 2014, the adoption Understandable: of which is required for listed companies with accounting periods starting on or There is a clear and comprehensive framework for the Annual Report after 1 October 2014.
In order to meet the requirements of the Code, the Board needs to explain how it has assessed the prospects of the Group taking into account The key messages are adequately highlighted in simple language the current position and principal risks, and over what period they have done avoiding specialised terms and acronyms wherever possible so along with why they consider that period to be appropriate.
There is a glossary of technical terms and acronyms used frequently across the report The Audit Committee discussed the key elements required to make the statement, i. e. : The relevant information for shareholders is easy to find and appropriately cross-referenced where necessary without additional clutter The 2015 Deciding on the appropriate period to cover Annual Report comprises 158 pages compared to the 170 pages of the 2014 report Identifying and describing the relevant evidence and assumptions and ensuring that the various planning scenarios were realistic, taking into The various sections taken together present a consistent and easy to account the business, industry and macro-economic factors comprehend overview of the strategy, performance and business model of the Group Making an assessment that is appropriate to the Companys circumstances Applying appropriate stress testing and reverse stress testing The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Board of Directors was in a position to make the statement using the Group Stress testing methodology.
The Financial viability statement can be found within the Directors Report on page 90.
