Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance Donald Brydon CBE Chairman Dear Shareholders, The Board of the Group is committed to ensuring that it provides effective Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although leadership and promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
One of the ways adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good governance but rather in which the Board achieves this is by requiring that good governance principles about the exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing and practices are adhered to throughout the Company.
The Board has determined any Board is the way in which the Non-Executive and the Executive Directors that the following is a helpful summary of its role.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally unrealistic to expect Executive Directors to speak individually with Good governance is about helping to ensure the Company is well run.
It involves the same freedom as the Non-Executive Directors.
Equally, Executive Directors being satisfied that an effective internal framework of systems and controls is put who just toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and promotes success effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to while permitting the management of risk to appropriate levels.
find the right balance between hearing the collective executive view, being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team and allowing independent It also involves the exercise of judgement as to the definitions of success for input from the Non-Executive Directors.
the Group, the levels of risk we are willing to take to achieve that success and the levels of delegation to the executive.
The exercise of this judgement is One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the Board the responsibility of the Board and involves consideration of processes and and finding this balance between individuality and team behaviour is driving assumptions as well as outcomes.
more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer Executive Directors.
In our circumstances, the consequent Board construction works effectively and an It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views of shareholders appropriate balance is struck.
and other stakeholders to be given appropriate consideration when reaching these judgements.
Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, ideally, be composed The Executive Team is required to provide such information to the Board as the of a diverse group of respected, experienced and competent people who coalesce Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over these matters.
It must around the common purpose of promoting the long-term success of the Company, also evidence appropriate process.
There is a very fine distinction between the provide a unified vision of the definitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour approval of processes and their definition.
Only exceptionally would the Board to support management i. e. honestly criticise at times but encourage all the intervene to initiate or define.
time and create confidence in all stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definition of success and the assessment of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
Donald Brydon Chairman 4 March 2016 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 This report is intended to give shareholders a clear and comprehensive the Code and its statement requirements picture of the Groups governance arrangements and how they operated Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and to the date during the year.
of this report, London Stock Exchange Group has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the UK Financial Pages 5760 set out details of the areas of our focus during the year, followed Reporting Council at www.
This corporate governance section of by the Committee Reports.
Descriptions of how we complied with the Annual Report and Accounts describes how we have applied the principles the main principles of the Code are set out on pages 6263. of the Code.
57 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Corporate governance continued Board Audit Nomination Risk Remuneration Board and Committee meetings 2015 The Board held 6 scheduled meetings and 8 additional meetings at short 1 Donald Brydon CBE 5 14 2 6 4 6 notice.
On a number of occasions throughout the year, the Chairman met Xavier R Rolet KBE 14 14 Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors present, and the Board met without the presence of the Chairman.
Throughout the year, the Chairman Jacques Aigrain 12 14 4 4 4 6 also met with Non-Executive Directors individually to discuss other businessBaroness Sharon related matters.
Comprehensive Board and committee papers, comprising an Bowles 13 14 4 4 agenda and formal reports and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in advance Sherry Coutu CBE 10 14 5 6 of each meeting.
Directors are continually updated with written and verbal 9 reports, from senior executives and external advisors.
Paul Heiden 9 14 4 4 6 6 4 4 2 Lex Hoogduin 1 14 Each meeting includes a wide-ranging report from the Chief Executive and Raffaele Jerusalmi 14 14 a report from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial performance.
Reports from the committee chairmen, updates on major projects and Stuart Lewis 13 14 4 4 6 6 certain administrative matters are also reported at each Board meeting.
Andrea Munari 10 14 3 4 3 On an annual basis the Board undertakes reviews of the following: Health and David Nish 1 14 0 4 0 4 Safety, the 3 Year Business Plan and Annual Budget, Strategic Review off-site 10 Stephen OConnor 14 14 3 4 6 6 4 4 strategy day, the FCAs risk mitigation programme together with a presentation 4 Mary Schapiro 5 14 0 6 from the FCA, Board effectiveness, Review of independence of Directors pursuant to the Code, Review of key governance and corporate policies, Approval of the David Warren 14 14 Group Risk Register and Risk Appetite, Non-Executive Directors Fees and Approval Directors who left during the year of Annual and Interim Dividends and the Annual Report and Accounts.
5 Chris Gibson-Smith 9 14 1 6 2 6 Throughout the year the Board considered the following matters: sale of Frank Baroness Joanna Russell Investment Management Business, Acquisition of Quality Assurance 6 Shields OBE 5 14 1 6 Business Exactpro Systems Limited, Sale of Proquote Limited, Executive 7 Massimo Tononi 8 14 2 4 4 6 and Non-Executive succession planning, including the appointment of a new 8 Chairman and 3 new Non-Executive Directors, Discussion and approval of Robert Webb 4 14 2 6 1 6 Group strategy including Group corporate responsibility strategy, Group debt Notes: refinancing, Group cash pooling project, Investor Relations reports, Review 1.
Donald Brydon joined the Board on 19 June 2015. of quarterly financial forecasts and funding of acquisitions, presentation on 2.
Lex Hoogduin joined the Board on 4 December 2015.
Cyber Risk and review and approval of full year and interim results and quarterly 3.
David Nish joined the Board on 4 December 2015.
M ary Schapiro joined the Board on 1 July 2015 and became Interim Management Statements.
a member of the Nomination Committee in December 2015.
Chris Gibson-Smith left the Board on 1 July 2015.
Baroness Joanna Shields OBE left the Board on 19 May 2015.
Massimo Tononi left the Board on 7 August 2015.
Robert Webb left the Board on 29 April 2015.
P aul Heiden did not attend a number of Board meetings because of a conflict of interest.
Stephen OConnor joined the Audit Committee on 4 March 2015.
When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they received and reviewed the relevant meeting papers.
Where they had comments or concerns on the matters to be discussed, they provided these to the Chairman of the Board or Committee in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board engages with Directors between Board meetings to discuss business and strategic issues.
When arranging meetings at short notice, every attempt is made to accommodate Directors diaries: however, inevitably, not all Directors are able to attend all such meetings.
The majority of meetings where Directors have been unable to attend were the 8 additional meetings called at short notice which principally related to the sale of the Russell Asset Management business.
58 Governance Corporate governance BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND LEADERSHIP 2015 Effectiveness Review 2014 Effectiveness Review The Board carried out an internal review of its own effectiveness and that of The 2014 Effectiveness Review which was externally facilitated its Committees and Directors.
The evaluation process was conducted by the identified a number of issues.
These are summarised below, Group Company Secretary using a detailed questionnaire.
The results of the together with the resulting actions.
review were used to assist the Board in forming Board objectives for 2016 and to assist in consideration of the future development of the Board, its Committees ISSUE ACTION and its individual Directors.
Effective management of the New Chairman appointed in July 2015 process for appointing a successor see Nomination Committee Report The Board identified that the key areas for Board development were: for the Chairman on page 61 Board Directors to have increased contact outside the Board room Succession planning for the Following Robert Webb stepping Increased discussion of succession planning at Board level Senior Independent Director down from both positions, successors and Remuneration Committee appointed from within the Board Identify further development needs for Directors Chairman roles Refreshment of membership Changes made to Committee of Committees membership Appointing the Chair of the Chairman of the Risk Committee Risk Committee to sit on the appointed to the Audit Committee Audit Committee Relations with shareholders and interim results are accessible to all shareholders via webcasts.
Webcasts of The Groups Investor Relations IR function, reporting to the Chief Financial the Groups 2 strategic update events during the year are also available through Officer, manages day-to-day engagement with shareholders.
The Chief Executive the IR section of the website.
The Group also produces an annual Corporate Officer and Chief Financial Officer typically engage with investors through Responsibility report that details its approach to ESG matters: www.
com meetings and presentations to discuss strategy, performance and other matters.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee are also available to meet major investors, particularly to discuss Conflicts of interest corporate governance matters.
During the year, senior management and the The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise conflicts of IR team held 399 meetings and calls with investors from around the world.
interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee consulted with a number of the Groups The Group has established procedures whereby actual and potential conflicts institutional shareholders on remuneration matters.
The Groups AGM provides of interest are regularly reviewed, appropriate authorisation is sought prior to the the opportunity for all shareholders to meet Directors and to put questions to the appointment of any new Director and new conflicts are addressed appropriately.
Procedures for the AGM are compliant with the Code, with voting by way The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted of a poll to ensure all shareholders views are taken into account.
Directors and, in making such decisions, the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
During the past year, the Group also provided 2 ad hoc strategic updates focusing on the Post Trade and Information Services business divisions.
In addition to Lex Hoogduin is Chairman of LCH.
Clearnet Group information on financial and operational performance, the Group engages with Limited is a non-wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and Mr Hoogduin shareholders and relevant shareholder advisory agencies on environmental, social receives a separate fee for that role.
Any potential conflicts of interest arising as and governance ESG matters.
a result of Mr Hoogduins appointment to the Board have been governed by the terms of a conflicts memorandum of understanding between LCH.
Clearnet Group The Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled meetings, Limited and the Company.
including market expectations of financial performance, updates on share register composition and feedback from investors.
Sell-side analyst research notes are Indemnities circulated to the Board following publication.
The Groups corporate brokers Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from the Company in and a specialist IR advisory firm also provide the Board with advice on market respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office and execution of their sentiment and share register analysis.
The Company maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
This policy covers the The IR section of the Groups website www.
com investor-relations is a Directors for any such liabilities in respect of which they are not indemnified primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
All financial by the Company and, to the extent to which it has indemnified the Directors, reports and statements, news releases, presentations and other documents also covers the Company.
This insurance cover has been renewed.
Neither the including regulatory news service disclosures are available on the website together Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover for a Director in the event with a list of analysts producing research on the Company and a summary of that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Recordings of presentations of preliminary 59 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Corporate governance continued Risk Management and Internal Control The Chief Financial Officers management reports, used by the Executive During 2015, the Board has directly, and through the Audit Committee and Committee and which contain key financial information and performance the Risk Committee, reviewed and assessed the Groups risk framework, indicators, are shared with the Group Board and any key issues are reviewed systems of internal controls and Risk Management process and held at each Board meeting formal discussions of the Group risk profile.
Well defined governance around capital commitments, investments approval and new products development The Risk Management process is governed by a Board approved Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework.
The Executive Financial Risk Committee oversees risks related to capital, investments, tax and counterparties The Group runs mandatory online and face-to-face training programmes As part of its remit, the Financial Risk Committee oversees the activities for all employees covering ethical conduct, risk and control management, of the Groups Treasury function through its Treasury Committee, and regulatory requirements.
A divisional internal control and Risk Management which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer self-certification process is also performed semi-annually.
Each business unit is required to confirm that it is in compliance with the Groups policies and The Treasury Committee operates within Board approved policy and meets governance procedures and is managing its risk within appetite.
Internal regularly to review the management of the Groups credit, market and Audit provides regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and liquidity risks effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and the Groups The Executive New Products and Markets Committee oversees all new risk framework.
organic business activities In addition, the Chairman had regular meetings with the Chief Risk Officer The Executive Investment Committee monitors capital expenditures to discuss the Groups key and emerging risks.
Further detail on the Groups across the Group and helps the Executive Committee approve and Risk Management oversight can be found on pages 4445.
An overview of the prioritise projects Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Group is provided on pages 4653.
Internal Audit Internal Controls The Internal Audit function provides reliable, objective and reasonable assurance Management structure to management, Audit Committee members, Risk Committee members and LSEG has a clearly defined organisational structure within which individual Group Board members.
The function reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of responsibilities are identified and are monitored.
The day-to-day running of the the system of internal controls, the governance model and the Risk Management Group is managed by an Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Group Framework in place to manage risks within the Groups risk appetite and achieve Chief Executive Officer.
As a third line of defence, the function has no operational responsibilities over the entities or processes which it reviews.
The Group operates a matrix structure designed to optimise resource allocation and organisational capacity.
Each Executive Committee member is responsible for The independence of the Internal Audit function from Executive Management one of the Groups operating divisions or a major area of strategic importance and is achieved through the following means: each legal entity is responsible for engaging with local regulators and ensuring regulatory compliance.
The Executive Committee meets regularly to review The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chairman of the business and financial performance, risk exposure and to approve key decisions.
Audit Committee of the Board and has direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
The Group Head of Internal Audit has a secondary reporting line to Under the matrix structure, lines of responsibility have been clearly defined the Chief Financial Officer for administrative matters and an appropriate framework of delegated authorities is in place.
The Group continues to monitor the functioning of and implement improvements to its The performance of the Group Head of Internal Audit is assessed jointly Risk Management Framework to ensure it is fit for purpose for its new size and by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive Officer and current ambitions.
the Chief Financial Officer Personnel conduct The Audit Committee must be consulted on the appointment or the dismissal The quality of LSEGs personnel is seen as an essential part of the control of the Group Head of Internal Audit environment.
Integrity and competence is ensured through high recruitment The Audit Committee approves the annual budget and the resourcing plan standards and the provision of continual training and professional development.
for internal audit LSEG assess the risk culture of the senior executives as described in the Risk Management section on page 44.
Further details on the Internal Audit function can be found in the internal audit The Group has in place internal control and Risk Management systems in relation charter which is reviewed annually and available from the Group Company to operational, compliance accounting and financial reporting processes.
Secretary or the Groups website at www.
The application of Group accounting policies, which are updated regularly Conclusion in accordance with new relevant accounting standards The Board confirms that, through the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee, Robust finance systems to record, consolidate and report all it has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial information controls throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board has satisfied itself that a robust assessments of the principal risks A comprehensive budgeting and financial planning process, with an annual facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, budget and 3 year business plan approved by the Board, and financial and future performance and liquidity, have been carried out during the year.
key performance indicators reviewed against budget on a monthly basis at Necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant a group, divisional and business unit level.
Revised forecasts for the year are failings or weaknesses identified during these reviews.
The Board is satisfied prepared on a quarterly basis that the Risk Management process and system of internal controls conform A system of delegation of authority including the approval of expenditure with the 2014 FRCs Risk management, internal control and related financial up to set financial limits and business reporting Risk Guidance.
