G O V E RN A NC E C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A N CE R E PO R T Jon Aisbitt Chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report to you on the Boards activities and development in my last year as Chairman of Man.
As indicated in my Chairmans statement, after a year of major acquisition in 2014 the Boards focus turned to reviewing against plan the performance of the businesses acquired, monitoring the progress of their integration into Mans operational infrastructure and testing the risk management which had been put in place.
The Board also reviewed Mans investment in people, exploring the success of the new investment managers hired into GLG, the development and mobility of the internal talent pool and the dissemination throughout the Group of the set of core business principles introduced by the executive team in 2014.
2015 was also a year of building future talent for the Board.
While Phillip Colebatch was leading the search for my successor as Chairman, I concentrated on the search for his successor as Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Both appointments were successfully completed around the turn of the year and will provide excellent leadership for the future.
I am pleased to have had the opportunity to lead Mans Board for the last nine years through a period of profound change for the business and the industry as a whole.
I would like to thank my fellow Board members and the executive management for their unfailing support and effort through what have often been uncertain and testing times.
I am confident in the strength of the team that I hand over to Ian and wish my colleagues all the best for the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 49 23978 Man AR15.
indb 49 24 02 2016 18:04 C O R PO R AT E G O V E R N A N CE R E PO R T C O NTI N U E D BOARD LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE INTERNATIONAL Board composition One of my most important jobs during my time as Chairman has been 100% to build a Board which has the right balance of skills, experience and outlook to meet the changing needs of the business and to provide FINANCE maximum support and challenge to the executive team.
The nature and structure of Mans business has evolved significantly over the last nine years and the changes in the profile of the Board reflect the scale of that 100% change.
While all its members continue to have in-depth financial and fund management experience of various kinds, the Board has been fully OPERATIONAL refreshed in recent years with the appointment of four independent nonexecutive directors who are serving executives in other companies.
These individuals bring current operational experience and insights which are 64% highly valued by Mans executive team.
The analyses of our membership opposite show the strength of the Boards membership in terms of the RISK MANAGEMENT range of relevant experience our directors offer and the period over which they have been building their knowledge of the business.
55% One of the areas where we still have progress to make is the promotion of further diversity.
As part of this, we are exploring different ways to TENURE Tenure years attract appropriate female candidates to the Board and hope that a new approach, as detailed in the Nomination Committee report, will prove successful during 2016.
I feel, nonetheless, that I am leaving Ian with a very experienced, high quality and committed executive and non-executive team.
Full details of individual Board members career experience and role on the Board are given on pages 4648.
Board roles and relationships The way in which Board members work together is as important as the individual skills they bring.
I have, as Chairman, enjoyed a strong relationship with our CEO.
Full details of our respective roles on the % Board are given on our website.
Mannys response to my non-executive colleagues is constructive and candid and the executive team is always 0-3 years 46 open to the Boards requests for more detail and insights into the 3-6 years 36 business, whether that be on the tracking of acquisitions, the success of 6 years 18 new hires or on industry and external market trends.
The executives very much welcome the sharing of advice and experience by Board members ATTENDANCE RECORD Attendance who, as full time executives elsewhere, are working on similar challenges record in their own organisations.
These include issues such as cyber protection, Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 10 10 the roll-out and testing of business principles, and management 1 development and succession.
There is a strong and growing appetite Phillip Colebatch 9 10 on the part of every Board member to maximise the non-executives John Cryan 10 10 contribution to all areas of the Boards operation and to leverage the skills 1 and experience they offer.
Andrew Horton 9 10 Matthew Lester 10 10 Our non-executives also meet as a separate group on occasion without Emmanuel Roman 10 10 the executive team.
They take advantage of informal dinners to hear at first hand about the business from Executive Committee members and Dev Sanyal 10 10 other senior management below Board level.
This also gives the Board Nina Shapiro 10 10 the opportunity to test management development and succession planning needs and to get a better sense of the talent available to provide Jonathan Sorrell 10 10 the executive leadership of the future.
Note: 1 Owing to conflicting business commitments, Phillip Colebatch and Andrew Our Senior Independent Director SID, Phillip Colebatch, has played a Horton were each unable to attend one meeting.
However, they received and vital role this year in his leadership of the search for my successor, details reviewed the papers to be considered in advance and directed questions to the of which are given in the Nomination Committee report.
As Chairman of Chairman which were addressed in the meeting.
the Remuneration Committee, he led the shareholder consultation on the changes to our remuneration policy and our ongoing programme Non-executive independence and consideration of conflicts of shareholder engagement on remuneration during the year.
Details I believe that, as shown in the feedback from our external Board of these activities are given in the Directors Remuneration report.
A full evaluation, our non-executive directors bring a robust scrutiny and level outline of Phillips role as SID is given on our website.
of challenge to management proposals.
Their independence is regularly assessed as part of the annual Board evaluation and we consider each one to be totally independent in spirit and in role.
In-depth due diligence at the time of each directors appointment ensures that any potential 50 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 50 24 02 2016 18:04 G O V E RN A NC E conflicts of interest are fully explored.
Board members are required to notify Board direction and oversight me on a continuing basis of any changes in their external appointments The Boards principal responsibility is to promote the long-term success or interests which may create a potential conflict with their service on of the Company in line with its culture and values.
In doing this, it must the Board in order that the implications may properly be addressed.
The ensure that it delivers the right balance between short-term and longappointment of John Cryan as co-CEO of Deutsche Bank last July was term objectives and creates sustainable shareholder value.
To provide carefully considered by the Board and the executive team.
As a result, we oversight of financial reporting and risk management and to protect concluded that the potential conflict of interest arising from his executive shareholder interests in respect of executive remuneration and the future position at Deutsche Bank meant that he should step down from his leadership of the business, it delegates certain functions to three main position as Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee but Board Committees whose functions are summarised below.
that he should remain on the Board as a non-executive director.
BOARD AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REMUNERATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Reviews the integrity of the Companys Recommends to the Board for approval Keeps the Boards skill and experience financial reports and statements prior to the principles and structure of the base under regular review in light of approval by theBoard.
business changes and agrees with Reviews and reports to the Board on the Recommends to the Board for approval the Board the role specification for any effectiveness of Mans risk management the quantum of the Companys variable proposed new appointments.
Conducts the search and selection Recommends to the Board the Recommends to the Board for approval process for new directors and appointment of the external auditor the annual objectives and compensation recommends proposed appointees to the and reviews the effectiveness and for individual executive directors.
independence of the external auditor.
Approves the compensation for Executive Reviews senior executive development Approves the Internal Audit plan and Committee members and FCA Code staff.
and succession plans to ensure continuity reviews the effectiveness of the Internal Determines the contractual termination of resource at, and just below, Board level.
Audit function and managements terms for executive directors and any Reviews and recommends the renewal of response to their findings.
See pages 57 to 60 for the Audit See pages 64 to 87 for the Directors See pages 61 to 63 for the Nomination and Risk Committee Report Remuneration Report Committee Report FullCommittee terms of reference, which are approved by the Board, can be found on our website.
Details of the work of the Committees during the year are givenin the separate Committee reports highlighted above.
Matters reserved for Board decision groups.
The CEO is assisted in managing the business by the Executive In discharging its responsibility for the direction and governance of Committee which operates under his direction and authority.
The the business, the Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are Executive Committee helps implement the Board approved strategy and reserved for its decision alone.
These are key matters determining the manages financial and operational performance.
It is also accountable purpose, value and structure of the business including: for all risks assumed in the business and for the execution of appropriate Strategy risk management discipline.
Executive Committee membership is given Oversight of business performance on page 40.
Major acquisitions and disposals and new business developments Capital structure and corporate status Board meetings and agendas Risk appetite, risk management and internal controls The Board held ten formal meetings during 2015, including a one-andAnnual Budget and Medium Term Plan a-half day strategy review.
The tables on page 52 give a sense of the Borrowings and Treasury policies Boards core agenda at every meeting, the recurring annual cycle of Financial reporting and communications with shareholders business and specific items of focus in 2015.
Mans President, Luke Ellis, Dividends regularly attends meetings to give the Board an update on the progress Board appointments and performance of Mans investment managers and to provide insights into industry performance and market trends.
Executives from Investment A full list of the matters reserved for Board decision is available on our Management, Sales, Operations and Group Risk are invited to report website.
direct to the Board on progress and business developments within their areas.
The Global Head of Legal and Compliance keeps the Board All other matters fall within the responsibility and decision of the CEO who updated on any regulatory issues arising in the business, new areas of has established a separate Group authorities framework through which FCA focus and the potential impact of external regulatory developments.
he delegates certain decisions to individuals and specific management Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 51 23978 Man AR15.
indb 51 24 02 2016 18:04 C O R PO R AT E G O V E R N A N CE R E PO R T C O NTI N U E D AREAS OF BOARD FOCUS IN 2015 Regular core agenda CEO review of markets and economic backdrop, investment Reports by Committee Chairmen on matters discussed at previous performance, fund flows and people moves Committee meetings Updates on acquisition opportunities Business updates including Group Risk Dashboard, Investor Relations Review of financial performance against plan Update and Operations and Technology Report Full year programme February September Reviewed and approved 2014 Group bonus pool and executive Reviewed external risks which posed a potential threat to Mans directors remuneration on the recommendation of the Remuneration business Committee Discussed talent management and succession planning initiatives Approved Final FY15 Budget and FY1517 Medium Term Plan including front office recruitment activity Approved 2014 final dividend and $175 million share buyback Discussed an update by the Operations and Technology team on the Undertook annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk objectives, strategy and outlook for their part of the business in 2016 management and internal control processes and beyond Approved 2014 Annual Report November March Presentation on Global Sales strategy and progress from the CoApproved a new Directors remuneration policy for vote by Heads of Global Sales shareholders Reviewed the assumptions for the FY16 Budget and FY1618 Medium Approved the Notice of 2015 AGM Term Plan Received an update on cyber security assessment, staff awareness May training and protection Reviewed the seeding book and approved an increase in the cap and Discussed Board succession and diversity initiatives the value at risk limit VaR Started regular tracking of progress against plan on recent acquisitions December Considered pre-AGM feedback on Directors remuneration policy Reviewed 2015 from a market perspective changes in register, buyside sentiment and price volatility June Preliminary approval of FY16 Budget and FY16-18 Medium Term Plan Approved the refinancing of the Revolving Credit Facility RCF at a subject to year end numbers reduced level $1 billion Received presentations on machine learning by AHL and the Board Strategy review see further details below development of Mans alternative beta solution by the CIO of FRM Discussed the output of the 2015 Board evaluation July Reviewed non-executive directors fees and the annual update on Reviewed and approved the 2015 ICAAP directors external appointments Discussed feedback from employee survey and management actions Approved revised terms of reference for the Audit and Risk and proposed in response Remuneration Committees Discussed action points from the Board Strategy review Considered Half-Year Risk Update Approved 2015 interim dividend and Interim Report Approved 2015 Sharesave Offer Reviewed and approved updated Global Inside Information Policy, Share Dealing Code and disclosure of inside information procedures Reviewed and approved updated schedule of matters reserved for Board decision Board Strategy review: Received presentation from Barclays Strategic Consulting on hedge Reviewed the build out of AHL beyond trend following and its fund trends and outlook collaboration with Numeric Discussed strategic objectives in relation to product development, Reviewed FRM performance and flows Sales capacity and growth Reviewed Numeric integration and strategic direction Reviewed the restructuring and development of the GLG alternatives Reviewed Global Sales plans with particular focus on the US growth business, the build out of the long only franchise and the development strategy of the CLO business 52 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 52 24 02 2016 18:04 G O V E RN A NC E BOARD ACCOUNTABILITY and are operating effectively.
These include balance sheet reconciliations and financial statement preparation processes.
A sample of these control Board responsibility for risk management and internal controls certifications is independently spot checked to provide assurance that In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code they have been correctly certified.
the Code, the Board is required to monitor the Companys risk management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis and, During the year, formal monitoring of the results of the certification at least annually, carry out a review of their effectiveness and report on process is carried out by senior management.
Any material points of note this review to shareholders.
Details of the Companys ongoing process are escalated to the Audit and Risk Committee ARCom.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company are contained in the Risk management section on pages 34 to Financial reporting 37, together with details of those principal risks and their related mitigants.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment A summary of the Companys risk management and internal control The processes that were developed and reported on last year to systems, including those relating to the financial reporting process, is support the Boards presentation of a fair, balanced and understandable given below.
These systems have been in place throughout the year and assessment of the Companys position and prospects have also been up to the date of this report.
Particular reliance is placed on the conclusions and recommendations arising from the ARComs comprehensive review Financial reporting controls of the Interim and Annual Report to ensure that there is consistency The Group operates a financial controls framework which is designed between the narrative reporting and the financial information.
Further to provide assurance that proper accounting records are adequately details of the ARComs review process can be found on page 58.
All maintained and that financial information used within the business and contributors to the Companys financial statements and Annual Report for external publication is reliable and free from material misstatement, are made aware of the fair, balanced and understandable requirement.
thereby safeguarding the Companys assets.
Executive Committee members and the heads of relevant business units carry out an extensive review and verification exercise to support the This framework is managed through a process whereby control owners accuracy of the disclosures.
certify that key preventative and detective controls have been performed Board review of risk management and internal control systems The Companys risk management and internal control systems aim to safeguard assets, maintain proper accounting records and provide assurance that the financial information used in the business and published externally is robust and reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key risks, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The systems comply with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, it has delegated oversight of this to the ARCom.
To support its ongoing risk oversight responsibilities, the ARCom regularly reviews and considers: summary dashboards for risk, internal controls, the financial controls framework and compliance: presentations on the strategy and risk and control profile of the Groups key business areas and in-depth reviews of the Groups business functions: reports from the Risk & Finance Committee which monitors the effectiveness of risk mitigation through regular review of Risk and Control SelfAssessments carried out by management as the first line of defence, scenario analysis, key risk indicators and operational risk event reports: and reports from Internal Audit regarding the operation and effectiveness of internal controls.
The Internal Audit programme is designed to provide objective assurance on the business areas, key controls and processes that are most significant in terms of the Groups risk profile.
During the year, a number of operational and regulatory matters that had occurred were reported to the ARCom.
Whilst Man sought to improve its processes as a result, these matters were not considered sufficiently material in number or nature either to require separate disclosure in the financial statements or to indicate that the control environment had not been working effectively.
The report from the Chairman of the ARCom on pages 57 to 60 provides further information on how the ARCom has discharged its risk oversight responsibilities during the year.
The Board receives regular reports from the Chairman of the ARCom, business management and Group Risk on the risks to the achievement of the Groups operational and financial objectives, together with assurance that the level of risk retained is consistent with and being managed in accordance with the Boards risk appetite and with business planning.
These reports include current and forward looking assessments of capital and liquidity adequacy and a summary risk dashboard.
Annual review of risk management and internal controls In addition to its ongoing monitoring of the Groups risk management and internal controls, the Board has conducted a specific annual review of their effectiveness during the year and for the period up to the date of this Annual Report.
This review covered all principal risks and included a review of all significant operational risk events and Internal Audit findings raised during the period.
The Board also considered the potential impact of certain risks identified by the business, the outcome of the firm-wide Risk and Control Self-Assessment process performed by business management and the quality of the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Following this review, the Board concluded that the Groups risk management processes were effective and that there were no significant weaknesses or failings in the system of internal controls.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 53 23978 Man AR15.
indb 53 24 02 2016 18:04 C O R PO R AT E G O V E R N A N CE R E PO R T C O NTI N U E D BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Board education and development Mans business Board induction Board members regularly identify business areas and external market We arrange a comprehensive and tailored induction programme for our trends about which they would like a better understanding.
In 2015 non-executive directors as soon as possible after their appointment.
The the Board was keen to learn more about the development of Mans programme is built around one-to-one meetings with members of our alternative beta product and participated in an in-depth discussion with Executive Committee, the Heads of Group functions and the Company the CIO of FRM about the scale of the opportunity and the challenges Secretary covering the broad areas of business set out in the table below.
This is a key growth area which the Board will follow closely in 2016.
It was also interested to learn from the AHL team about Ian Livingston and Richard Berliand, who joined the Board in January the application of machine learning in terms of pattern prediction and 2016, have recently worked through this programme.
In addition, Ian recognition to the development of AHL models.
Understanding the drivers has spent time talking to Board members and other people in the of the Sales opportunity and making further inroads into the US market business about all aspects of Mans operation and culture.
In his role continue to be high on the Boards agenda.
In response to this interest, as Remuneration Committee member and prospective Remuneration the Co-Heads of Global Sales discussed with the Board the prospects for Committee Chairman, Richard received a briefing on current themes and and limitations on sales growth in different countries and the challenges developments in executive remuneration for FTSE companies and Mans attaching to the achievement of the 2016 Global Sales budget.
He will also have meetings with our remuneration advisers and legal advisers on remuneration matters.
Regulation Our Board members are committed to keeping up-to-date on the ever We always seek feedback from our new Board members on the content widening range of regulatory issues which may impact their governance and format of the induction programme in order to keep it refreshed responsibilities.
Details of briefings and workshops offered by external and well targeted.
Further details of the programme can be found on firms are circulated by the Company Secretary as an adjunct to the our website.
discussion of specific regulatory topics at Board meetings by our auditors, remuneration and other advisers.
During the year the Board received refresher training on the Disclosure and Transparency Rules in respect of the protection and timely disclosure to the market of inside information as context for its review of the Companys updated inside information and share dealing code processes.
B O A R D I ND U C T I O N P R O G R A MME BUSINESS REVIEW MARKET REGULATORY PEOPLE, CULTURE BOARD PROCEDURES POSITIONING & ENVIRONMENT AND VALUES & GOVERNANCE PERCEPTION FRAMEWORK Strategic direction and Review of financial and Overview of the Discussion of key Board processes and priorities market performance Groups key business principles relationships Analysis of markets in Recent analyst and compliance and Key people and Board interaction with which Man operates media coverage regulatory policies succession plans key business areas Overview of AHL, GLG, Analysis of shareholder Recent changes in HR priorities including Overview of listed FRM and Numeric base and investor regulatory landscape diversity, training and company structure and Sales and distribution perception Hot topics and key talent pipeline governance framework Operations and Shareholder priorities for regulators HR structure Listed company technology engagement including relevant and outsourcing obligations Risk appetite and thematic reviews arrangements Directors duties and framework Impact of upcoming responsibilities regulatory developments on the Group including MiFID II, UCITS V and Senior Manager Regime 54 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 54 24 02 2016 18:04 G O V E RN A NC E 2015 Board evaluation The IDDAS report was presented to the Board in December 2015 In considering its approach to the 2015 evaluation, the Board took and reviewed in more detail at the February 2016 meeting.
The Board account of the planned succession in the first half of 2016 of a Chairman discussed the themes arising and agreed a number of actions to address who was new to Man and who would wish to introduce his own ideas the main areas identified for development in 2016 on which we will report on the operation and effectiveness of the Board.
It was also aware of the next year.
ongoing search for and appointment of a new non-executive director and prospective Remuneration Committee Chairman.
In these circumstances Review of individual performance the Board decided that, after two internal evaluations, there would be I met and discussed with each of the directors individually the evaluation value in carrying out an external evaluation but that this should be done feedback on their contributions to the Board during the year.
These on a light touch basis.
The evaluation was structured around one-toconversations identified areas where directors might bring additional one conversations with Board members to cover action points arising benefit to the Board and explored opportunities for their further from the 2014 evaluation and to stimulate comment on areas of current development in the role.
Phillip Colebatch, in his role as SID, provided interest and on things which it was considered the Board did least well.
feedback to me on my contribution as Chairman.
It was also agreed that there should be conversations with a number of senior executives who regularly attended Board meetings to test the SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT level of Board challenge of their proposals and ask what further support and contribution Board members could provide.
The intention was that The Board is committed to maintaining an ongoing dialogue with the evaluation should be structured as a forward looking review with the investors and is keen to understand the views of major shareholders.
emphasis on what could be achieved in the future.
The Head of Investor Relations regularly attends Board meetings to report on important changes in the share register, share price performance, IDDAS Limited was selected to carry out the work, focusing on the investor sentiment and areas of enquiry.
The Board also receives regular effectiveness of the Board, the contribution of individual directors, and detailed feedback on investor perceptions of the CEO and CFO.
the operation of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee.
IDDAS Limited has no other connection with the Company.
Institutional investors The effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee was the subject of The Company has developed a comprehensive investor relations an internal review facilitated by the Company Secretary.
The findings programme through which the Head of Investor Relations, CEO and and priority areas of focus arising from the Committee evaluations CFO maintain a continuous dialogue with institutional investors on are discussed in the separate Committee reports.
A summary of the performance, plans and objectives.
This is achieved through one-to-one key strengths and main areas for development identified in the Board meetings throughout the year and participation in UK, US and European evaluation is set out below.
investor roadshows and investor conferences.
Details of the 2015 Calendar of Investor Events are provided on the following page.
K E Y A R E A S O F P R O G RE S S S T RE NG T H During 2015, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Company Secretary spent considerable time consulting with major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on proposed Board composition: the appointment of new non-executive adjustments to the executive incentive limits within our remuneration directors has strengthened the industry and corporate experience policy.
Further details of this engagement on remuneration matters are on the Board and resulted in a well balanced team.
provided in the Directors Remuneration report on page 65.
Board relationships and challenge: relationships are described as open, respectful and constructive.
Board members feel able Key areas which the CEO and CFO have discussed with investors during to contribute and challenge freely: there are healthy differences of the year have been: opinion and no signs of group think.
Progress of recent acquisitions, in particular Numeric Ethics: Board members expressed a high degree of confidence in Progress on US distribution the ethical standards set for the business by the CEO.
M&A potential new acquisitions Secretariat: the Board feels well served in matters of governance Flows pipeline and administration by the Company Secretariat.
M A I N A R E A S F O R fide V E L OP M E N T Strategy: drilling down on the big strategic questions including the direction of the industry, the acquisition strategy and the delivery of value from Mans existing and future footprint.
Investment in people: monitoring the outcomes of investment in people against a more detailed strategy.
Talent and succession: reviewing the executive talent pool, seeking more interaction with the senior team below the CEO and creating robust succession plans for the top roles.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 55 23978 Man AR15.
indb 55 24 02 2016 18:04 C O R PO R AT E G O V E R N A N CE R E PO R T C O NTI N U E D 2 0 1 5 C A L E N D A R O F Private investors IN V E ST OR E V E N T S Our private investors are encouraged to access the Companys Interim and Annual Reports and half-year and final results presentations on our website.
Other useful information such as historic dividend records and shareholder communications is also available on the website.
2014 year end results released FEB Shareholders can use the site to access our Registrars Shareview UK investor roadshow website www.
co. uk where their shareholding account can be UK and US investor roadshows MARCH managed online.
Investor engagement on proposed remuneration policy changes We are always keen to understand the views of and answer questions BAML Group investor meeting from private investors and offer a dedicated shareholder mailbox AHL investor meeting shareholder@man.
We also have a separate Morgan Stanley Annual European Financials conference mailbox for use in respect of AGM queries agm@man.
Dialogue with investors on AGM remuneration APRIL resolutions Shareholder meetings Shareholders are invited to attend our AGM in May each year.
At our 2015 Q1 2015 Trading Statement MAY AGM, Manny Roman gave shareholders an overview of the progress Annual General Meeting of the business and our future plans and outlook.
This was followed by Citi Investor Group meeting the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions about the resolutions Paris investor roadshow before the meeting and about the business more generally.
We look JUNE Autonomous Research: Financials Rendez-Vous forward to meeting shareholders again and providing a further business update at our 2016 AGM in May this year.
2015 interim results released JULY UK investor roadshow Jon Aisbitt UK investor roadshow AUG Chairman Barclays Global Financial Services Conference SEPT New York UK and US investor roadshows Bank of America Merrill Lynch Annual Banking and OCT Insurance Conference Q3 2015 Trading Statement Frankfurt, Geneva and Zurich investor roadshow NOV JP Morgan Best of British conference Renewed engagement on executive remuneration with shareholder representative bodies Citi Diversified Financials conference DEC STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Setting executive directors and Chairmans remuneration Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the Remuneration Committee The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2015, the Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting the applied the principles of and complied with the provisions of the UK remuneration of all the executive directors and the Chairman.
The terms Corporate Governance Code dated September 2014 except in the of reference of the Committee provide that the Committee has authority following respects: only to recommend, for approval by the Board, executive directors 1 remuneration and the remuneration of the Chairman.
The Board Remuneration Committee membership believes that, given the importance for the business of motivating the Provision D. 2.1 of the Code requires the Remuneration Committee the executive team to deliver the Companys strategy, it is appropriate for Committee to consist of at least three independent non-executive all non-executive Board members, rather than just those who sit on the directors.
Prior to John Cryans appointment as an independent Committee, to determine the executive directors compensation.
It also non-executive director and member of the Committee on 15 January believes that, in order to provide transparency and allow the views of all 2015, the Committee comprised only two independent non-executive the directors, executive and non-executive, to be taken into account, directors, Phillip Colebatch and Nina Shapiro, in addition to our it is appropriate for all Board members to determine the Chairmans Chairman.
John Cryan ceased to be a member of the Committee remuneration.
following his appointment as Co-CEO of Deutsche Bank on 1 July 1 This authority is given subject to the proviso that no Board member should 2015 and as a result the Committee reverted to comprising only two participate in the recommendation or approval of his or her compensation.
independent non-executive directors for the remainder of the year.
Ian Livingston and Richard Berliand were appointed as independent Other information non-executive directors and as members of the Committee on 1 Certain additional information in relation to the Companys share January and 19 January 2016 respectively, bringing the total number of capital, the powers of the directors and amendments to the articles independent non-executive directors on the Committee to four.
of association that is required to be disclosed in the Corporate Governance report pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the Directors report on pages 88 to 89.
56 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
