G O V E RN A NC E A U D I T A N D R I S K C O M M I T T E E R E P O RT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Matthew Lester The Committee is integral to Man Groups governance framework Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee through its oversight of the Groups financial reporting, risk management and internal controls, and internal and external audit.
The Committees roles and responsibilities are outlined in further detail below.
These are derived from the Committees terms of reference available on the Companys website which are reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis and referred to the Board for approval.
Details of how the Committee has discharged these responsibilities are set out in the section entitled Key items considered during the year.
Financial Reporting Monitor the integrity of the financial information contained in the interim and annual financial statements with particular focus on key accounting policies and judgements.
Review the longer-term viability and going concern statements and recommend their approval to the Board.
Advise the Board on whether the Committee believes the Interim and Annual Reports to be fair, balanced and understandable.
Dear Shareholder Risk Management, Internal Controls and Compliance During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of continued to support the Board in its assessment of the integrity of the risk management and internal controls please refer to page 53 for Groups financial reporting, monitor the effectiveness of the Groups further details of the Committees ongoing monitoring and review of systems of risk management and internal controls, and oversee the the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls.
activities of the Groups Internal Audit function and its external auditor.
Ensure that a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group has been undertaken and advise the Board on the The Committee has also devoted significant time to developing its management and mitigation of these risks.
understanding of the risk and control profile of key business areas and Review the effectiveness of the Groups regulatory reporting to assessing and overseeing the implementation of new requirements activities, Compliance function and arrangements for staff to raise around risk management and internal controls introduced by the latest concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Report to the Remuneration Committee any findings in relation COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE to risk matters which may impact its decision on discretionary I am supported in my role as Chairman of the Committee by four other remuneration payments.
Committee members: Phillip Colebatch, Andrew Horton, Dev Sanyal and, latterly, Ian Livingston who joined the Committee in January 2016.
It is the intention that Ian Livingston will succeed Jon Aisbitt as Chairman of Internal Audit the Board following the 2016 AGM, at which time he will step down as a member of the Committee.
Approve the annual Internal Audit plan and Charter and Internal Audit activities.
All members of the Committee are independent, non-executive directors Review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
and bring extensive financial and commercial experience from a variety Review all significant Internal Audit recommendations and oversee of industries, further details of which are provided on pages 46 to 48.
As progress in addressing these.
Chief Finance Officer of Royal Mail plc, I am considered to have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
External Audit During the year, we met on six occasions with attendance at these meetings set out below: Recommend the appointment, and determine the remuneration Attendance record of, the external auditor, including reviewing the external auditors effectiveness and independence.
Matthew Lester Chair 6 6 Review and approve the external audit plan and the external Phillip Colebatch 6 6 auditors control procedures.
Andrew Horton 6 6 Review the findings of the external audit and the external auditors management letter and oversee management action to address Dev Sanyal 6 6 findings where necessary.
Approve and monitor the policies relating to the provision of nonThe Board Chairman, CEO and CFO are invited to attend Committee audit services by the external auditor and the hiring of personnel meetings along with the Chief Risk Officer, Global Head of Legal from the external auditor.
and Compliance, Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and Arrange for the external audit to be put out to tender as often as is representatives from Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
required by applicable law, rules, regulations and best practice.
At the end of each meeting, I meet with the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from Deloitte in the absence of management.
Following each Committee meeting, I communicate the key areas of discussion and make recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 57 23978 Man AR15.
indb 57 24 02 2016 18:04 A U D I T A N D R I S K C O M M I T T E E R E PO R T C O NTI N U E D Structure and format of meetings structure to those provided by AHL, GLG and FRM, which I reported The Committee has an annual forward agenda in place with agenda items on last year, and were designed to enable the Committee to assess, scheduled to coincide with key events in the financial reporting cycle, in context, the significant risks perceived by each business area and specific risk matters that the Committee has identified and standing items the controls in place to mitigate these risks to the extent desired.
The that the Committee is required to consider in accordance with its terms of Committee was particularly keen to understand the extent to which a reference.
The annual agenda is supported by agenda setting meetings shift in product focus impacted the Sales team from a risk perspective, held in advance of each Committee meeting which I attend, along with how Numerics risk processes and controls had evolved post-acquisition members of the senior management team, to identify key issues impacting and whether there had been any changes in AHLs risk and control profile the business that may require consideration by the Committee.
I meet since the presentation provided in 2014. privately with the Head of Internal Audit following each of these meetings.
Representatives from AHL were also invited to present to the Committee Management submit reports and presentations to the Committee on key during the year to discuss the processes for defining and dealing with financial reporting, risk, compliance and audit matters and attend Committee potential operational events within AHL.
The Committee sought to meetings as previously described to highlight significant issues and respond understand the cause and impact of these events and the changes that to queries raised by the Committee in respect of these matters.
At each had been made to strengthen the controls in this area.
meeting, the Committee considers dashboards on the key risks impacting the business, compliance matters, the financial controls framework and Oversight of risk and control environment key functional areas internal controls.
These dashboards are designed to focus on any matters The Committee also reviewed a number of the Groups key functional areas that may require further discussion by the Committee.
including Compliance, Finance and IT and Operations.
In accordance with the Committees forward agenda, an in-depth review of the Groups Risk KEY ITEMS CONSIDERED DURING THEYEAR function will take place in H1 2016 and will be reported on next year.
Financial reporting Accounting judgements and significant accounting matters Compliance As part of the process for monitoring the integrity of the financial During the year, the Global Head of Legal and Compliance presented the information contained in the interim and annual financial statements, 2015 Compliance Plan to the Committee.
This outlined the Compliance the Committee reviewed the key accounting judgements and policies functions strategic goals and the development and implementation of adopted by management and confirmed that these were appropriate.
various policies and processes to support the function in meeting these The significant areas of judgement identified by the Committee, in goals.
Consideration was given to the regulatory environment within conjunction with management and the external auditor, are set out in which the Group operated, particularly in the context of the recently the table on the opposite page together with a number of other areas acquired businesses in the US and the integration of these companies that the Committee deemed to be significant in the context of the onto the Groups existing compliance platforms.
Finance Fair, balanced and understandable assessment The Committee also considered a presentation from the Group Financial At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the Controller on the Finance functions governance arrangements and Interim and Annual Reports were fair, balanced and understandable the key areas of focus during 2015 in terms of process and system and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the improvements.
Given the functions global presence, the Committee Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was particularly keen to understand the processes that were in place to reviewed the interim and annual financial statements in conjunction with retain oversight centrally and the extent to which the recently acquired the narrative sections of the reports to ensure that there was consistency businesses had been integrated onto the Groups finance systems and in the information reported, that appropriate weight had been given to financial control framework.
both positive and negative aspects of business performance and that key messages had been presented coherently.
The Committee concluded that, IT and Operations taken as a whole, the Interim and Annual Reports were fair, balanced and The Groups Chief Operating Officer, Chief Technology Officer and Head understandable.
Further details of processes supporting the fair, balanced of Business Operational Risk were invited to attend several meetings and understandable assessment can be found on page 53. throughout the year to update the Committee on changes impacting the risk and control environment of the IT and Operations function.
Risk management, internal controls and compliance The Committee spent considerable time discussing the new Given the increased risk of cyber-attacks faced by all companies, the requirements around risk management and internal controls introduced Committee dedicated significant time to understanding the Companys by the latest edition of the Code.
Particular focus was given to the response to this heightened threat, further details of which can be found requirement for the Board, either directly or through the Committee, to in the Principal risks and mitigants section on pages 36 and 37.
The monitor the Groups risk management and internal control systems on an Committee reviewed and discussed the initiatives that were being rolled out ongoing basis.
The Committee is satisfied that, through its regular review across the business to help improve the firms defences against this risk.
of dashboards described above, its in-depth assessment of key business areas and functions referred to below and its ongoing review of progress Outsourcing risk also continued to be an area of focus, particularly in light against the Internal Audit Plan, it is monitoring the effectiveness of the of one of Mans key service providers exiting from its fund administration Groups systems of risk management and internal control on an ongoing and transfer agency businesses.
The Committee discussed and basis.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance report endorsed managements recommendation in respect of the appointment on page 53. of an alternative provider for these services.
Oversight of risk and control environment key business areas Consideration was also given to proposed improvements to the processes As mentioned above, the Committee continued to develop its and controls around identity access management, key personnel changes understanding of the risk and control environment within key business within Operations and resourcing within the Technology team.
Representatives from the Groups Sales team, Numeric and AHL were invited to present to the Committee on the risk and control profile of their respective business areas.
The presentations followed a similar 58 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 58 24 02 2016 18:04 G O V E RN A NC E ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS Area of consideration Role of the Committee Conclusion Goodwill impairment Goodwill for each of the Groups cash The Committee considered reports from After extensive discussion and challenge, the generating units GLG, AHL, FRM and management outlining the methodology for Committee confirmed that the FRM goodwill Numeric is tested for impairment at least the impairment assessment and challenged impairment was appropriate in respect of the annually through the application of a value in the assumptions underpinning the goodwill Interim Report but that no further impairment use model.
This is judgemental in nature as valuation model with specific focus on the was required in any of the cash generating it requires estimates concerning future cash sensitivity of the model.
During the year, units at the year end.
flows, growth rates and associated discount management proposed that FRM goodwill be rates to be taken into account.
impaired by $41 million for the six months to 30 June 2015 due to a decline in FUM versus forecast and an increase in costs as a result of adverse FX movements during the six Please refer to Note 13 in the Group financial statements month period.
Investment in funds The Group holds investments in a number The Committee reviewed managements The Committee concluded that it was of funds which it manages.
Judgement is assessment of the investments which the satisfied with managements assessment required to be exercised in terms of assessing Group is deemed to control in accordance of the entities which are deemed to be whether these investments are controlled with IFRS 10. controlled by the Group and the associated by the Group and therefore need to be accounting treatment.
consolidated into the Groups balance sheet.
The valuation of the Groups illiquid The Committee reviewed and discussed The Committee confirmed that it was investments, seeding book and CLO reports from management outlining the comfortable with the valuation of the illiquid portfolio, together with the underlying processes that were followed both internally portfolio, seeding book and CLO portfolio, processes to support the valuation, also and by outsourced providers to value the and the methodology on which these require careful consideration.
illiquid portfolio, seeding book and CLO valuations were based.
Please refer to Note 16 in the Group financial statements for further details.
Adjusting items The directors focus on profit before adjusting The Committee reviewed and challenged The Committee concluded that the adjusting items adjusted profit as this reflects the the adjusting items contained in the Group items were appropriate and provided a fair underlying trends in the business and the financial statements and considered whether assessment of the underlying profitability of recurring revenue and costs that drive the there was consistency of approach from the business.
Adjusting items relate to period to period, an appropriate symmetry non-recurring items or those resulting from between losses and gains and whether the acquisition and disposal related transactions.
reversal of any accruals previously classified as adjusting items was maintained.
Please refer to Note 2 in the Group financial statements for further details.
Rebates and commissions The effectiveness of the processes and During the year, the Committee closely The Committee has concluded that the controls around accurately accruing for monitored improvements to rebate and improvements to processes and controls rebates and commissions is considered to commission reporting which the Committee in relation to rebates and commissions are be important in ensuring that a true and fair identified as an area of focus for 2015.
At the appropriate and is satisfied with the action view of the Groups operations is presented.
Committees request, the Head of Financial that management has taken to date.
Operations provided an update at each meeting summarising the progress that had been made in implementing an integrated technology platform to automate these processes and strengthen the controls in this area.
Viability The Committee is required to report to the The Committee discussed the requirements The Committee concluded that the threeBoard on whether there is a reasonable introduced by the 2014 edition of the UK year assessment period was appropriate and expectation that the Company will be Corporate Governance Code regarding recommended the draft viability statement to able to continue in operation and meet its the preparation of the Companys viability the Board for approval.
liabilities as they fall due over the period of statement which included consideration of their assessment, drawing attention to any the proposed three-year assessment period qualifications, or assumptions as necessary.
in line with the Groups business planning horizon and the processes supporting the The viability statement can be found on page 34. assessment of the Groups viability.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 59 23978 Man AR15.
indb 59 24 02 2016 18:04 A U D I T A N D R I S K C O M M I T T E E R E PO R T C O NTI N U E D Internal audit In accordance with the non-audit services policy, any potential services The Groups Internal Audit function continues to be performed by KPMG.
to be provided by the external auditor, which are not excluded under the At each meeting, the Committee considered Internal Audit progress non-audit services policy but which have an expected value of $75,000 or reports presented by the Head of Internal Audit, with particular focus on more, must be approved by the Committee in advance.
The Committees the extent to which deadlines were being achieved and managements approval is also required where the pre-approved fees in any financial response to the recommendations contained in the reports.
Whilst no year exceed $2 million in aggregate provided this does not exceed the significant weaknesses were identified in any of the Internal Audit reports, 70% cap on non-audit services as a percentage of the statutory audit fee a number of improvements to certain processes and controls were introduced by EU independence legislation.
implemented in response to the recommendations put forward.
The table below shows the remuneration paid to Deloitte in 2014 and During the year, the Committee approved the appointment of a new 2015.
2015 2014 Head of Internal Audit who will succeed the current Head of Internal $000 $000 Audit in 2016.
It also reviewed and approved the 2016 Internal Audit Plan Fees payable to the external auditor the Plan which included details of the audits to be performed during for the audit of the Company and the 2016 and the resources required to deliver the Plan.
The Committee has consolidated financial statements 597 450 agreed to monitor and formally review the Plan during the course of 2016 Other services: to ensure that it remains appropriate.
The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1,543 1,435 External audit Effectiveness of external audit process Audit-related assurance services 273 265 As reported last year, the Committee decided to defer its formal Tax advisory services 44 208 evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process until Other assurance services 453 Deloitte had completed its first audit cycle.
At the May 2015 meeting, the Committee considered responses to a questionnaire which had All other services 51 82 been completed by Committee members and various members of the Total auditors remuneration 2,508 2,893 management team.
The questionnaire focussed on several components of the external audit process including the quality of the audit partner and team, planning and execution of the audit, communication with the Following a formal assessment of the external auditors independence Committee and the external auditors independence and objectivity.
and objectivity at its meeting in February 2016, the Committee concluded The responses indicated that Deloitte had made a strong start in the that Deloitte continued to be independent and objective.
first year of the audit engagement and had become familiar with the Groups control environment and key accounting issues.
A number of Reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor areas, primarily around resourcing and the prioritisation of audit risks, As previously reported, the Committee led an external audit tender were identified as requiring further consideration and the Lead Audit process in 2013, pursuant to which Deloitte LLP was formally appointed Partner, Mark FitzPatrick, set out his plans to address these issues in the as the Groups external auditor by shareholders.
In accordance with 2015 Audit Plan see below.
After extensive discussion, the Committee the Code and the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014, the concluded that the external audit process in respect of the 2014 financial Company will be required to put its external audit process out to tender statements had been effective.
The Committee will continue to monitor legal and regulatory developments around audit retendering and auditor 2015 external audit plan rotation to ensure the Company continues to comply with all relevant During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the 2015 external requirements in this area.
audit plan, including the proposed materiality threshold, the scope of the audit and the significant audit risks.
As part of this discussion, the Following the Committees review of the effectiveness of the external Committee considered the findings of the review undertaken by the audit process and its assessment of the external auditors independence FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team of Deloittes audit of the Groups and objectivity, it has recommended the reappointment of Deloitte as the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, which the Groups external auditor to the Board for approval by shareholders at the AQR team had selected as part of their 2015 annual inspection of audit 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The focus of the review was to identify areas where improvements were required rather than highlighting areas where work was performed Committee evaluation at or above the expected level.
I received a full copy of the findings and During the year, the effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed by discussed these with Deloitte.
The Committee has confirmed that no an external consultant as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
significant areas for improvement were identified within the report and Interviews were conducted with all Committee members and regular that it is satisfied that there is nothing in the report which might have a attendees, the results of which confirmed that Committee was operating bearing on Deloittes appointment.
Responses indicated that the Committee meetings were well structured and that constructive and appropriate challenge was provided Auditor independence and the provision of non-audit services by all members.
Whilst it was felt that there was a suitable balance In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the between financial reporting and risk matters, an area that was identified external auditor, the Committee is responsible for the development, as requiring further consideration was around whether strategic risk implementation and monitoring of the Groups policies on the provision should be discussed by the Committee or at Board level.
The Committee of non-audit services by the external auditor and the hiring of personnel has referred this feedback to the Board and appropriate action will be from the external auditor.
The Committee reviewed and approved these taken during 2016 to reflect the outcome of this discussion.
Matthew Lester Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 60 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
