G O V E RN A NC E N OM IN AT I ON C OM M I T T E E R E P O R T Richard Berliand Jon Aisbitt, Nomination Richard Berliand emerged as the leading contender in our search for a Committee Chairman new non-executive director.
He was appointed to the Board and to the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee on 19 January 2016 and, subject to his reappointment by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, will succeed Phillip Colebatch as Remuneration Committee Chairman at the conclusion of that meeting.
Richard brings extensive experience of the markets and regulatory environment in which Man operates, a close understanding of its business and clients and indepth operational expertise.
As a global markets professional with a 23 year career at J. P. Morgan, he is very familiar with the structuring and dynamics of executive pay within a high performance high bonus culture.
Board composition and gender diversity Feedback from our recent Board evaluation, which included the views of both Board members and executive attendees, confirms the progress that has been made in building the Boards strength and credibility.
With the diverse background of the current team of non-executive directors, it has the full range of skills and experience required to move beyond the day to day and tackle the long-term business challenge.
Dear Shareholder We recognise, nonetheless, that there is still work to do in attracting female directors to our Board.
The report below highlights a new 2015 was a busy year for the Nomination Committee the Committee approach we are exploring in support of this objective and we look with considerable time spent on the search for my successor as forward to benefiting from the increased diversity of outlook and decision Chairman of the Board and for a new non-executive director to take on making that success in our endeavour may bring.
the role of Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Phillip Colebatch, as Senior Independent Director, led the Board Chairman search from the Full details of the Committee and its activities during the year are given start of the year.
Full details of the timeline and key steps in this process, below.
I have every confidence in the continued progress of its work and in which I took no active part, are set out on page 63.
The search for a wish it every success for the future.
new Remuneration Committee Chairman was triggered by John Cryan stepping down from that role following his appointment as co-CEO of Jon Aisbitt Deutsche Bank in July.
I led this search independently of the search for Chairman my successor using the services of a different search firm and ensured that no candidates were under consideration for both roles.
Details of this MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS process are given on page 62.
All our non-executive directors are members of the Committee and meetings are normally attended by Manny Roman.
Five formal meetings Ian Livingston were held during the year as shown in the attendance table below with We are very pleased with the outcome of our searches and the substantial informal communication and dialogue between meetings key appointments we have been able to make.
Ian Livingston was to support and progress the Board searches.
In addition, Committee appointed as a non-executive director and as a member of all the main members continued to take advantage of non-executive dinners to Board Committees with effect from 1 January 2016.
Subject to his discuss people and executive succession issues.
The main functions of reappointment by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, he will succeed me as the Committee are set out in the Board governance chart on page 51 and Chairman at the conclusion of that meeting.
Ian has a broad knowledge full terms of reference can be found on our website.
of capital markets, well established links with the financial community Attendance and extensive executive and non-executive Board experience.
As the record former CEO of BT Group, he brings to Man proven success in leading Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 5 5 the integration and development of overseas businesses and in-depth operational expertise.
His international and client driven background will Phillip Colebatch 5 5 also assist in the furthering of Mans relationships with Regulators and John Cryan 5 5 Governments worldwide and the building of key client relationships.
Andrew Horton 5 5 Matthew Lester 5 5 Dev Sanyal 5 5 Nina Shapiro 5 5 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 61 23978 Man AR15.
indb 61 24 02 2016 18:04 N OM IN AT I ON C OM M I T T E E R E P O R T C O NTI N U E D COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR In addition to the search for a new Chairman of the Board and a new APPOINTMENT OF RICHARD BERLIAND Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Committee addressed the following specific areas: June 2015 search decision Executive development and succession Following the announcement of the appointment of John Cryan as Discussed career development opportunities for top executives.
co-CEO of Deutsche Bank, I contacted all Committee members Reviewed with the Board the continued evolution of Group succession to agree the urgent need to search for a new Remuneration plans, the identification of business critical roles and progress on Committee Chairman and to recommend to the Board the mentoring, coaching, cross-training and internal moves.
reappointment of Phillip Colebatch to that role in the interim period.
Introduced a NED executive pairing initiative to support the Zygos was appointed to carry out the search.
development of Executive Committee members.
July 2015 review of long list The Committee reviewed and shared feedback on a list of Renewal of non-executive director appointments candidates researched by Zygos who had confirmed their Reviewed and recommended to the Board the reappointment of interest in the role.
The list profiled the candidates against the Andrew Horton and Dev Sanyal to the Board for a second three-year key competencies and experiences required and highlighted any term, taking account of the positive feedback on their contribution to potential conflicts of interest identified by Manny Roman.
the Board from the 2015 Board evaluation.
The Committee identified selected candidates for interview.
Mr Horton and Mr Sanyal were absent from and took no part in these discussions.
August 2015 interview process The short listed candidates were interviewed by Manny and me.
Diversity Appointed The Zygos Partnership Zygos, who have no other September 2015 selection decision connection with the Company, to carry out a broad search to identify, Manny and I gave feedback on the interviews to the Committee for future development and mentoring, talented female candidates with and identified Richard Berliand as our preferred candidate.
the business knowledge and skills required to serve as directors on Arrangements were then made for him to meet the rest of the Mans Board but who currently have limited Board level experience.
Following these meetings, the Committee recommended Richards COMMITTEE EVALUATION appointment to the Board.
The Board approved the appointment IDDAS Limited carried out an external evaluation of the effectiveness subject to receipt by me of supportive live references and FCA of the Committee during the year as part of the broader 2015 Board approval.
The feedback suggested that the Committee had worked well to achieve the new Board Chairman and Remuneration Committee November 2015 FCA review Chairman appointments.
There was appreciation of the Committees Formal application for FCA approval was submitted.
considered approach to the timing of Board appointments and innovative thinking on ways to attract high quality people to the Board.
January 2016 announcement FCA approval was received and the appointment was announced.
The main priorities identified for the Committee for 2016 were: the pursuit of the new gender diversity initiative as part of the continued Jon Aisbitt refreshing of the Board: Chairman encouraging the further development of talent management and succession planning processes and output across the business: and formal discussion of succession for the top executive roles, including the CEO and CFO.
62 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 62 24 02 2016 18:04 G O V E RN A NC E APPOINTMENT OF IAN LIVINGSTON In December 2014, the Chairman reported to the Committee that 3. appointed a sub-Committee to take forward the search process he had discussed with each Board member individually his broad chaired by me and comprising Matthew Lester, Dev Sanyal and retirement plans and the arrangements which, when appropriate, might Manny Roman, thereby ensuring an appropriate balance of executive be put in place to ensure a timely, orderly and successful handover.
and non-executive membership and length of tenure on the Board.
I was invited, as Senior Independent Director, to lead the search for 4. approved a step plan, for implementation by the sub-Committee his successor and set out below the main considerations and stages when appropriate, covering the review of a long list, the identification involved in that work.
and selection of short listed candidates and the interview process.
A protocol for reports to and decisions to be made by the full Committee December 2014 governance and process at key stages was established.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the adoption of a best practice procedure for the conduct of the search.
This reflected current May 2015 review of long list governance requirements and discussions with other major listed Following the announcement of Jon Aisbitts retirement, the subcompanies which had recently managed a chairman succession.
It Committee considered a discussion list of possible candidates also took account of the need for the Board to derive benefit from produced by EZ, identified an initial long list for EZ to approach the current Chairmans views on the search while distancing him and, on the basis of EZs feedback, agreed a short list for completely from any involvement in the decision making process in recommendation to the Committee.
June 2015 confirmation of short list January 2015 private discussion with Committee members The Committee reviewed the EZ feedback and the CVs of the I held private discussions with individual Committee members to recommended candidates and agreed that each should be establish whether any current non-executive directors might be interviewed.
July 2015 interview process February 2015 decision on search firm, role specification and The short listed candidates were interviewed by Manny Roman and process me.
Feedback was provided to the Committee which agreed that the The Committee: preferred candidates should be interviewed by the remaining subCommittee members.
1. considered the search firms which were the principal contenders for September 2015 selection decision the assignment in light of those firms understanding of the current Ian Livingston was recommended to the Committee as the subBoard and executive team.
It agreed to appoint Egon Zehnder EZ Committees preferred candidate.
The non-executive directors not on using the same lead consultant who had worked on other recent the sub-Committee interviewed and endorsed the sub-Committees Board searches.
EZ have no other connection with the Company.
decided not to take any public steps in the search process until a firm The Committee agreed to recommend Ians appointment to the decision had been made on Jon Aisbitts retirement date and this had Board subject to the receipt by me of supportive live references.
2. agreed a detailed role and person specification which took account November 2015 Board approval and FCA review of the current stage of development of the business, the stakeholder The Board approved Ians appointment subject to FCA approval.
dimension, the interaction with the executive team and the signals to Ian then had a due diligence meeting with Jon Aisbitt.
I agreed be given to staff and to the market.
This was based on feedback from contractual terms with Ian on the basis recommended by the a series of meetings I had with all the non-executive and executive Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Formal application for FCA approval was submitted.
December 2015 announcement FCA approval was received and the appointment was announced.
Phillip Colebatch Senior Independent Director Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 63 23978 Man AR15.
