26 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance continued Directors Report continued There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of issued share capital.
This authority will expire securities in the Company: no special rights with on 20th November 2015 unless renewed by regard to control attached to securities: no shareholders.
The Directors consider that the agreements between holders of securities regarding renewing of the authority is in the interests of their transfer known to the Company: no agreements shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares which the Company is party to that affect its control at a discount to the underlying net asset value following a takeover bid: and no agreements between NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining shares.
the Company and its directors concerning Approval of dividend policy resolution 14 compensation for loss of office.
The Directors seek approval of the Companys Annual General Meeting dividend policy to continue to pay four quarterly Note: This section is important and requires your interim dividends, which in the year ended immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the 31st January 2015 have totalled 41 pence per share.
action you should take you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stock broker, bank Recommendation manager, solicitor, or other financial advisor authorised The Board considers resolutions 11-14 are likely to under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as Resolutions relating to the following item of special a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend General Meeting: to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 49,906 shares Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory representing approximately 0.05% of the existing pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice AGM to issue up to 4,841,963 Ordinary shares for cash of Meeting on pages 63 and 64. up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,210,490 such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present issued Corporate Governance Statement ordinary share capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of this document.
The full text Compliance of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on The Company is committed to high standards of pages 63 and 64.
This authority will expire at the corporate governance.
This statement, together conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2016 with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
page 35, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code new shares to participants purchasing shares through the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs the JPMorgan savings products and also to other Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, investors when the Directors consider that it is in the which complements the UK Corporate Governance best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues Code and provides a framework of best practice for are only made at prices greater than the net asset investment trusts.
value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other The Board is responsible for ensuring the than the management fee which is charged on the appropriate level of corporate governance and value of the Companys market capitalisation, over a considers that the Company has complied with the greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are best practice provisions of the UK Corporate available for investment in line with the Companys Governance Code and the AIC Code throughout the investment policies.
The Company currently does not year under review, other than in respect of the hold any shares in the capital of the Company in engagement of an external recruitment consultancy, Treasury.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for Role of the Board cancellation resolution 13 A management agreement between the Company At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2014, and JPMF sets out the matters which have been shareholders gave authority to the Company to delegated to the Manager.
This includes enable it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then management of the Companys assets and the The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 provision of accounting, company secretarial, Board.
The Board has considered whether a senior administration, and some marketing services.
independent director should be appointed and has resolved to appoint Sandy Nairn as its Senior All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Independent Director with effect from 3rd December Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the 2014.
Board for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Companys The Senior Independent Director will lead the investment objectives and policy and its future evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and strategic direction, gearing policy, management of may be contacted by shareholders if they have the capital structure, appointment and removal of concerns that can not be resolved through discussion third party service providers, review of key with the Chairman.
investment and financial data and the Companys Tenure corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
The Chairman and Sandy Nairn, having been At each Board meeting, Directors interests are Directors of the Company for more than nine years, considered.
These are reviewed carefully, taking into have retained their independence by submitting to account the circumstances surrounding them, and, if annual re-election.
In this regard, the Board considered appropriate, are approved.
It was resolved recommends the re-election of Hamish Leslie Melville that there were no actual or indirect interests of a and Sandy Nairn who, having served in excess of nine Director which conflicted with the interests of the years, retire at this years AGM.
They have a wealth of Company, which arose during the year.
experience in the financial sector and make a valuable contribution to the workings of the Board.
The Board has procedures in place to deal with The Board considers that Hamish Leslie Melville potential conflicts of interest and following the demonstrates effective leadership of the Company.
introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
Directors are initially appointed until the following It confirms that the procedures have operated Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys effectively during the year under review.
Articles of Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, subject to the The Board meets at least quarterly during the year performance evaluation carried out each year, the and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Board will agree whether it is appropriate for each Full and timely information is provided to the Board Director to seek re-election.
In accordance with the to enable it to function effectively and to allow UK Corporate Governance Code, from 2011 onwards, Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Directors continuing in office have sought annual There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take re-election.
independent professional advice if necessary and at The terms and conditions of Directors appointments the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the are set out in formal letters of appointment, copies access that every Director has to the advice and of which are available for inspection on request at services of the Company Secretary, JPMF, which is the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that The Board recommends the election and re-election of Board procedures are followed.
the Directors who each seek election and re-election at this years AGM.
Board Composition The Board, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, consists Induction and Training of six non-executive Directors, all of whom are On appointment, the Manager and Company regarded by the Board as independent, including the Secretary provide all Directors with induction Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment, training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided on business and financial skills and experience relevant to changes in law and regulatory requirements that the Companys business and brief biographical details affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are of each Director are set out on pages 22 and 23. encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering issues relevant to investment trust There have been no changes to the Chairmans other companies.
Regular reviews of the Directors training significant commitments during the year under review.
needs are carried out by the Nomination Committee A review of Board composition and balance is included by means of the evaluation process described below.
as part of the annual performance evaluation of the 28 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance continued Directors Report continued Meetings and Committees recruitment consultancy is consequently unnecessary The Board delegates certain responsibilities and at present, although this will be kept under review.
Details of membership of Recruitment is managed by the Board directly with committees are shown with the Directors profiles lists of candidates drawn up, CVs submitted and on pages 22 and 23.
Directors who are not members detailed interviews conducted with candidates.
Harry of Committees may attend at the invitation of the Morley was appointed a Director on 21st May 2014.
The Committee conducts an annual performance The table below details the number of Board, Audit evaluation, to ensure that the Board, all members of Committee and Nomination Committee meetings the Board and its committees have devoted sufficient attended by each Director.
During the year there time and contributed adequately to the work of the were six Board meetings, three Audit Committee Board.
meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees and These meetings were supplemented by additional makes recommendations to the Board as and when meetings held to cover procedural matters and appropriate, in relation to remuneration policy and formal approvals.
In addition there is regular contact implementation.
between the Directors and the Manager and On an annual basis each Director submits a list Company Secretary throughout the year.
of potential conflicts of interest for approval at Audit Nomination the Nomination Committee meeting.
These are Board Committee Committee considered carefully, taking into account the Meetings Meetings Meetings circumstances surrounding them, and, if considered Director Attended Attended Attended appropriate, are approved for a period of one year.
1 Hamish Leslie Melville63 2 An externally facilitated evaluation is carried out 2 Sir Richard Beckett 21 every three years.
In 2011 and 2014 evaluations were Helen James6 3 2 carried out by Stephenson & Co, which has no other 3 Harry Morley 32 1 connections with the Company.
Sandy Nairn 53 1 Audit Committee Ian Russell 63 2 The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Russell, consists Jeremy Tigue6 3 2 of all the Directors other than the Chairman and 1 Attended by invitation.
meets at least twice each year.
It is planned that 2 Retired on 21st May 2014.
Harry Morley will succeed Ian Russell as Chairman of 3 Appointed on 21st May 2014. the Audit Committee, with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board Committees members of the Committee consider that they have Nomination Committee the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie responsibilities of the Committee.
For details of their Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at qualifications see pages 22 and 23.
Mr Leslie Melville least annually to ensure that the Board has an is not a member of the Audit Committee, however, he appropriate balance of skills and experience to carry is invited to attend meetings as a guest.
out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
The Committee reviews the actions and judgements The appointment process takes account of the of the Manager in relation to the half year and benefits of diversity, including gender.
annual accounts and the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the request of The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is the Board, the Audit Committee provides to take account of the benefits of these during the confirmation to the Board as to how it has appointment process.
However, the Board remains discharged its responsibilities so that the Board may committed to appointing the most appropriate ensure that information presented to it is fair, candidate, regardless of gender or other forms of balanced and understandable, together with details diversity.
Therefore, no targets have been set against of how it has done so.
During its review of the Companys financial The Board has a wide network of contacts within the statements for the year ended 31st January 2015, the field of financial services and beyond, and believes Audit Committee considered the following significant that the engagement of the services of an external The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29 issues, including those communicated by the and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Auditors during their reporting: Committee also receives confirmations from the Auditors, as part of their reporting, in regard to their Significant issue How the issue was addressed objectivity and independence.
In the Directors opinion, the Auditors are considered independent.
Going concern The Directors have considered the Companys investment objective, risk management policies, The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility capital management policies and procedures, the for making recommendations to the Board on the nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
As a result, they have determined A predecessor firm of  LLP that the Company has adequate resources, an PwC was appointed on 8th January 1885, shortly appropriate financial structure and suitable after the Companys launch.
The audit engagement management arrangements in place to continue in partner rotates every five years in accordance with operational existence for the foreseeable future.
ethical guidelines and 2015 is the fifth year for the Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in current partner.
and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in investments note 1 to the accounts on page 46.
Controls are in As part of its review of the continuing appointment place to ensure that valuations are appropriate and of the Auditors, the Audit Committee considered the existence is verified through custodian reconciliations.
length of tenure of the audit firm, its fee, its independence from JPMF and the Investment Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the Managers and any matters raised during the audit.
The Board regularly reviews A formal tender exercise was undertaken in 2014, as subjective elements of income such as special a result of which PwC was reappointed.
Written dividends and agrees their accounting treatment.
submissions were received from five audit firms.
These were considered in full by Board representatives and a Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust shortlist of three firms was drawn up.
Meetings were Sections 1158 and 1159 under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been held between a Committee of the Board and the obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility shortlisted firms, using a selection checklist.
Following criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
these meetings, one firm was chosen, which was discussed with all Directors and the reappointment Having taken all available information into approved by Board resolution.
consideration and having discussed the content of the annual report and accounts with the Alternative The Audit Committee reviews and approves any Investment Fund Manager, Investment Managers, non-audit services provided by the independent Company Secretary and other third party service Auditors and assesses the impact of any non-audit providers, the Audit Committee has concluded that work on the ability of the Auditors to remain the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended independent.
PwC reviews debenture loan covenants 31st January 2015, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced on an annual basis.
Otherwise, no such work was and understandable and provide the information undertaken during the year.
Details of the fees paid necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys for audit services are included in note 5 on page 49. performance, business model and strategy, and has Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the reported these findings to the Board.
The Boards Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual conclusions in this respect are set out in the Report & Accounts are considered.
Having conducted Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 35. the formal tender, and reviewed the performance of The Board was made fully aware of any significant the external auditors, including the quality of work, financial reporting issues and judgements made in timing of communications and work with JPMF, the connection with the preparation of the financial Committee considered it appropriate to recommend statements.
The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to shareholders The Audit Committee reviews the terms of the at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
management agreement and examines the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and internal control systems, receives information from independence, any significant non-audit services are the Managers Compliance department and reviews carried out through a partner other than the audit the scope and results of the external audit, its engagement partner where appropriate.
Fees paid effectiveness and cost effectiveness, the balance of for audit services, audit-related services and other audit and non-audit services, and the independence non-audit services are set out, where relevant, 30 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance continued Directors Report continued in note 5 on page 49.
There were no significant Risk Management and Internal Control non-audit engagements during the year under review.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the The Audit Committee has assessed the impact of any Directors, at least annually, to review the non-audit work carried out and is content with the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk Auditors ability to remain independent and objective.
management and internal control and to report to The Directors statement on the Companys system of shareholders that they have done so.
This risk management and internal control is set out below encompasses a review of all controls, which the and on page31.
Board has identified as including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
Terms of Reference The Directors are responsible for the Companys system Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit of risk management and internal control which is Committee have written terms of reference which designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies proper accounting records and ensure that financial of which are available for inspection on the Companys information used within the business, or published, website, on request at the Companys registered office is reliable.
However, such a system can only be and at the Companys AGM.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can Relations with Shareholders only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of against fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and Since investment management, custody of assets and performance and reports formally to shareholders twice all administrative services are provided to the a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts, and Company by the Manager and its associates and BNY, Half Year Financial Report.
This is supplemented by the the Companys system of risk management and daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, internal control mainly consists of monitoring the of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
services provided by the Manager and its associates and BNY, including the operating controls established All shareholders have the opportunity, and are by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General objectives.
There is an ongoing process for Meeting at which the Directors and representatives of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant the Manager are available in person to meet with risks faced by the Company see Principal Risks on shareholders and answer questions.
This process has been in place for the year presentation is given by the Investment Managers who under review and up to the date of approval of the review the Companys performance.
During the year Annual Report & Accounts and it accords with the the Companys brokers and the Investment Managers Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not have an hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The internal audit function of its own, but relies on the Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The internal audit department of the Manager.
This Chairman and Directors make themselves available as arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key and when required to address shareholder queries.
elements designed to provide effective risk The Directors may be contacted through the Company management and internal control are as follows: Secretary whose details are shown on page 69.
The Chairman can also be contacted via the Companys Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive website by following the Ask the Chairman link at review by the Board of key investment and financial www.
data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and performance The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is comparisons.
published in time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Management Agreement Appointment of a manager, Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in depositary and custodian regulated by the Financial advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Conduct Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are questions via the Companys website or write to the clearly defined in a written agreement.
Company Secretary at the address shown on page 69.
Management Systems The Managers system of risk Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution management and internal control includes will be published on the Companys website shortly organisational agreements which clearly define the after the Annual General Meeting.
lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by the The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31 as well as the board balance, oversight functions and Managers Compliance department which regularly remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis monitors compliance with FCA rules.
of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Companys investment strategy and exposure Proxy Voting limits by the Board.
JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of The Board, either directly or through the Audit JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best the Companys system of risk management and serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is internal control by monitoring the operation of the practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by key operating controls of the Manager and its companies in which we are invested.
associates as follows: reviews the terms of the management agreement Stewardship Engagement and receives regular reports from the Managers JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its Compliance department: clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the reviews reports on the risk management and responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of internal controls and the operations of its investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: Depositary, BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited, and its Custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge which are themselves independently reviewed: and their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: reviews every six months an independent report disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: on the risk management and internal controls and monitor their investee companies: the operations of the Manager.
establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: By the means of the procedures set out above, the be willing to act collectively with other investors where Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness appropriate: of the Companys system of risk management and internal control for the year ended 31st January 2015, have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their and to the date of approval of this Annual Report voting record: and and Accounts.
During the course of its review of the system of risk JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments management and internal control, the Board has not and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
identified nor been advised of any failings or We believe that regular contact with the companies in which weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf Corporate Governance and Voting Policy of our clients.
The Company delegates responsibility for voting to the Manager.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the The following is a summary of the policy statements Company Secretary or can be downloaded from of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAMs website: JPMAM on corporate governance, voting policy http: www.
co. uk and social and environmental issues, which has been governance.
This also sets out its approach to the reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Details of seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its social and environmental issues are included in the policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed Strategic Report on page 21. voting record.
Corporate Governance By order of the Board JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering JPMorgan Funds Limited, superior investment performance to our clients, we expect Company Secretary and encourage the companies in which we invest to 27th March 2015 demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code and best business practice.
We examine the share structure may be found on the respective organisations websites: and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, www.
