Governance Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of all the Directors except Mr DCP Internal Audit McDougall.
The members of the Committee consider that they The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and have the requisite financial skills and experience to fulfil the internal control systems and the internal audit function in place responsibilities of the Committee.
Mr JGD Ferguson was Chairman within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that of the Audit Committee until 1 May 2015 when Mr JJ Tigue a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders succeeded him as Chairman.
The Board believes it is appropriate investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal for Mr Ferguson to be a member of the Committee as he is audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined within its Financial Reporting written terms of reference which are available on request from the Company Secretary and at .
The Committee considers that the most significant issues likely to impact the financial statements are the existence and valuation of The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
investments, as they represent 96% of total assets, and the The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as accuracy and completeness of investment income.
part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and At least once a year the Committee meets with the external market prices are readily available from independent external Auditors without any representative of the Managers being pricing sources.
The Committee reviewed the Managers Report present.
on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding recording and pricing of investments and accurate recording of Main Activities of the Committee investment income.
The Committee met twice during the year and The value of all the listed investments as at 30 April 2015 were  LLP, the external Auditors, attended agreed to external price sources.
The Committee considered the one of these meetings.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and value of all unquoted investments at 30 April 2015, which are Compliance Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk function determined using valuation techniques based upon latest dealing provided reports on their monitoring programmes for these prices, stockbroker valuation, net assets values and other meetings.
information as appropriate, and assessed the appropriateness of The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the the judgements and assumptions used in valuing such Committee during the course of the year included the following: investments.
The portfolio holdings were agreed to confirmations the preliminary results announcement and the annual and from the Companys custodian.
half-yearly reports: The Managers confirmed to the Committee that they were not the Companys accounting policies and practices: aware of any material misstatements in the context of the Financial Statements as a whole.
the regulatory changes impacting the Company: the fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual Internal Controls and Risk Management Report and whether it provided the information necessary for The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk shareholders to assess the Companys performance, management and internal controls systems as described on business model and strategy: pages 21 and 22.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the year under review.
the effectiveness of the Companys internal control environment: External Auditors reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external Auditors: external Auditors, the Committee reviewed: whether the audit services contract should be put out to the audit plan for the current year: tender: a report from the Auditors describing its arrangements to the policy on the engagement of the external Auditors to manage auditor independence and received confirmation of supply non-audit services: its independence: and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external the extent of non-audit services provided by the external Auditors: Auditors.
Non-audit fees for the year to 30 April 2015 were 1,000 and related to the certification of financial information the need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: to the debenture trustee.
The Committee does not believe internal controls reports received from the Managers and that this has impaired the Auditors independence.
custodians: and To assess the effectiveness of the external Auditors, the the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby Committee reviewed and considered: their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible the Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
feedback from the Secretaries on the performance of the audit team: and the Audit Quality Inspection Report from the FRC.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 23 Governance Report To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process the Committee considered and reviewed: the Auditors engagement letter: the Auditors proposed audit strategy: the audit fee: and a report from the Auditors on the conclusion of the audit.
 LLP, or its predecessor firms, have been engaged as the Companys Auditors for over 27 years.
The audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated at least every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
The current lead audit partner, Ms Catrin Thomas, has been in place for three years and will continue as partner until the conclusion of the 2017 audit.
 LLP have confirmed that they believe they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not impaired.
Having carried out the review described above, the Committee is satisfied that the Auditors remain independent and effective and as such, has not considered it necessary to conduct a tender process for the appointment of its Auditors at this stage.
In accordance with FRC guidance, the Committee will consider conducting a tender process during the year to 30 April 2017 to coincide with the five year rotation cycle of the current partner, Ms Thomas.
The Committee is aware that EU regulations in relation to the statutory audits of EU listed companies will require the Company to change its audit firm by 2020.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 27 to 30.
By order of the Board JJ Tigue Chairman of the Audit Committee 16 June 2015 24 Annual Report 2015
