Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
the principles of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Appointments to the Board Code which can be found at www.
uk, and the relevant Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for principles of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code the benefits of diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial new directors is to identify the candidate with the best range of year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board investment companies and can be found at www.
therefore does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets.
Compliance The Board intimated in last years Annual Report that it expected The Company has complied throughout the year under review to appoint an additional Director this year.
Having considered the with the relevant provisions of the Code and the balance of skills on the Board and having regard to the present recommendations of the AIC Code except as follows: and future needs of the Company, it appointed Mr Jeremy Tigue a Nomination Committee has not been established.
As the as a Director with effect from 30 September 2014.
Mr Tigue was Board comprises only six non-executive Directors, all of whom fund manager of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC from are considered to be independent, a Nomination Committee 1997 to June 2014 and retired from F&C Management in 2014 is considered unnecessary.
The appointment of new directors after thirty-three years.
He is currently chairman of BACIT Limited is considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board conducts Battle Against Cancer Investment Trust and is a director of an annual review of its composition having regard to the Graphite Enterprise Trust PLC, The Mercantile Investment Trust present and future needs of the Company: plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust PLC.
He was a director of the Association of Investment Companies from 2003 to 2013.
Mr JGD Ferguson, Chairman of the Board, is a member of the As the Board had identified a candidate who met its requirements Audit Committee and was Chairman of the Committee until it was not considered necessary to use a recruitment agency on 1 May 2015.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr this occasion.
Ferguson to be a member of the Audit Committee as he is considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out interest.
Mr JJ Tigue was appointed Chairman of the Audit in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection Committee on 1 May 2015: and on request.
the evaluation of the Board has not been externally facilitated.
A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek The Board is of the opinion that the use of external election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
consultants to assist with the evaluation is unlikely to bring In accordance with the Code, all Directors offer themselves for any meaningful benefit to the process, though the option to re-election annually.
do so is kept under review.
Independence of Directors The Board All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including which could interfere with the exercise of their independent strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, judgement.
gearing, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning policy.
A separate strategy session is held annually.
The Board for company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, annually.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with The Board currently comprises six Directors all of whom are the view expressed in the AIC Code that long serving directors non-executive.
should not be prevented from being considered independent.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Mr McDougall is a director of Pacific Horizon Investment Trust Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The PLC which is also managed by Baillie Gifford.
Mr McDougall and executive responsibility for investment management has been Mr Ferguson are both directors of The Independent Investment delegated to the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Trust PLC.
Mr McDougall and Mr Sternberg are both Directors of Manager AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, and, in the context Herald Investment Trust plc.
All the Directors apart from Mr of a Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no Sternberg and Mr Tigue have served for more than nine years.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP Following a formal performance evaluation the Board has McDougall.
concluded that, not withstanding the above, Mr McDougall, Mr Ferguson, Mr Harley, Ms Ferguson and Mr Sternberg continue to The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and demonstrate independence of character and judgement.
Their experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership skills and experience add significantly to the strength of the and proper governance of the Company.
Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 17.
20 Annual Report 2015 Governance Report Meetings Audit Committee There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 23 and 24. address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment Internal Controls and Risk Management policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather effectively.
The table below shows the attendance record for the than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Board and the Audit Committee meetings held during the year.
and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance The Annual General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Directors Attendance at Meetings identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Audit Board Committee Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Number of meetings 7 2 The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard JGD Ferguson 7 2 the Companys assets and to manage its affairs properly, CC Ferguson 7 2 including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance EM Harley 7 2 controls have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries.
DCP McDougall 7 The Board oversees the functions delegated to the Managers KS Sternberg 7 2 and Secretaries and, with effect from 1 July 2014, the controls JJ Tigue 4 1 managed by the AIFM in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive as detailed below.
Baillie Mr DCP McDougall is not a member of the Audit Committee.
Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and Mr JJ Tigue attended all the meetings subsequent to his the AIFMs permanent risk function provide the Audit Committee appointment on 30 September 2014. with regular reports on their monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for these departments are defined and Performance Evaluation formalised within a service level agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance conducts an annual review of its system of internal controls which evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and the Audit is documented within an internal controls report which complies Committee was carried out during the year.
After considering and with ISAE 3402 and Technical Release AAF 01 06 Assurance responding to an evaluation questionnaire each Director had an Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made interview with the Chairman.
The Chairmans appraisal was led by available to Third Parties.
This report is independently reviewed by Mr DCP McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
The Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and a copy is submitted to the Audit appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the Committee.
balance of skills of the Board, training and development A report identifying the material risks faced by the Company and requirements, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall effectiveness of the Board and the Audit Committee.
the key controls employed to manage these risks is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Following this process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and the Audit Committee These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly continues to be effective and that each Director and the Chairman to the nature and extent of risks facing the Company and that remain committed to the Company.
The Board is of the opinion they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have that the use of external consultants to assist with the evaluation is been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to unlikely to bring any meaningful benefit to the process, though the assess whether further action is required to manage these risks.
option to do so is kept under review.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments of the Companys risk management and internal controls systems was carried out and the Board is satisfied that they are capable of and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no significant a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
year under review and up to the date of this Report.
Induction and Training The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in New Directors are provided with an induction programme which place up to the date of approval of this Report.
is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Briefings were provided during the year on industry and regulatory With effect from 1 July 2014, the Company entered into matters.
Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
arrangements to comply with the Alternative Fund Managers Directive.
The Company appointed BNY Mellon Trust & Remuneration Depositary UK Limited as its Depositary and Baillie Gifford & Co As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a Limited as its AIFM.
Directors fees are considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 25 and 26.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 21 Governance Report The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and for each resolution is announced at the meeting and is published monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and at www.
co. uk subsequent to the leverage requirements.
The Depositary is liable for the loss of meeting.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at financial instruments held in custody.
The Depositary will ensure least twenty working days.
that any delegate segregates the assets of the Company.
The Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date Depositary has delegated the custody function to The Bank information on the Company at of New York Mellon SA NV London Branch.
prepares a report on its key controls and safeguards which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
Corporate Governance and Stewardship The Company has given discretionary voting powers to Baillie The Depositary provides the Audit Committee with a report on its Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they monitoring activities.
consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests The AIFM has established a permanent risk management function and report their actions to the Board.
to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to are in place and to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors has a risk management policy which covers the risks associated when selecting and retaining investments and have asked the with the management of the portfolio, and the adequacy and Managers to take these issues into account.
The Managers do effectiveness of this policy is reviewed and approved at least not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on annually.
This review includes the risk management processes the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement and systems and limits for each risk area.
approach whereby matters are discussed with management with The risk limits, which are set by the AIFM and approved by the the aim of improving the relevant policies and management Board, take into account the objectives, strategy and risk profile systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors of the portfolio.
These limits, including leverage see page 55, could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers are monitored and the sensitivity of the portfolio to key risks is statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be undertaken periodically as appropriate to ascertain the impact of found on the Managers website at www.
The changes in key variables in the portfolio.
Exceptions from limits Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
monitoring and stress testing are escalated to the AIFM and The Managers are signatories to the United Nations Principles for reported to the Board along with remedial measures being taken.
Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Going Concern In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on By order of the Board going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a JGD Ferguson rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going Chairman concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and 16 June 2015 include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities significantly.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
The Board approves borrowing and gearing limits and reviews regularly the amounts of any borrowings and the level of gearing as well as compliance with borrowing covenants.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Relations with Shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman has maintained open lines of communication with market participants and investors in the Company, separate of Manager involvement, in order to ascertain views on corporate matters.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the Secretaries address or through the Companys Broker, Canaccord Genuity Limited see contact details on the back cover.
