Governance Report of the Audit Committee Audit Committee with the electronic filing of tax returns: and iv services in As recommended by the AIC Code, an Audit Committee has connection with the calculation of B Ordinary share been established with written terms of reference, copies of capitalisation ratios.
We will review any future fees in the which are available upon request from the Company light of the requirement to maintain the auditors Secretary and on the Company's website.
The Audit independence and objectivity: Committee comprises the whole Board excluding Dr Carter we review a statement from the Manager detailing the and I, Marcia Campbell, am the Chairman.
The members of arrangements in place within Aberdeen whereby Aberdeen the Audit Committee are each independent and free from staff may, in confidence, escalate concerns about possible any relationship that would interfere with our impartial improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other judgement in carrying out our responsibilities.
We have matters: satisfied ourselves that at least one of the Committees we make recommendations in relation to the appointment members has recent and relevant financial experience.
We of the auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms met three times during the year.
of engagement of the auditor: and we monitor and review the auditors independence, The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
In accordance with those terms of reference: Details of attendance at the Audit Committee meetings are shown in the Directors Report.
we review and monitor the internal control systems and risk management systems including review of non financial The Board has received a report from EY, its auditor, which risks and the Managers policy on information security notes that EY has policies and procedures in place that instil cyber risk on which the Company is reliant.
The Directors professional values as part of its firms culture and ensure statement on the Companys internal controls and risk that the highest standards of objectivity and independence management is set out in the Directors Report: and integrity are maintained.
we consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit we monitor the integrity of the half yearly and annual services provided by the independent auditor during the year, financial statements of the Company by reviewing, and together with the independent auditors procedures in challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of connection with the provision of such services, and remains the Manager: satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence is we review, and report to the Board on, the significant being safeguarded.
EY is typically retained to provide non financial reporting issues and judgements made in audit services to the Company in situations where the connection with the preparation of the Companys financial Manager has undertaken a detailed review of potential statements, interim reports, announcements and related advisors and chosen to use EY for a number of other clients formal statements: that it acts for.
This is in the best interests of the Company we review the content of the Annual Report and financial as it allows the Company to benefit significantly from pricing statements and make recommendations to the Board on economies of scale.
In these situations the Audit Committee whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and is presented with the results of the Managers review and is understandable and provides the information necessary for able to decide on a case by case basis whether there is any shareholders to assess the Companys performance, potential impact upon the auditors independence.
The Audit business model and strategy: Committee does not believe that the level of non audit fees we meet with the auditor to review the proposed audit payable by the Company is material in any way for EY and programme of work and the findings of the auditor.
The confirms its belief that EY is independent in accordance with Directors also use this as an opportunity to assess the the UK Corporate Governance Code.
effectiveness of the audit process: we also meet in private with the auditor, without any Potential Issues representatives of the Manager being present and we meet During our review of the Companys financial statements for in private with a representative from the Managers internal the year ended 31 December 2015, we considered the audit department: following potential issues: we develop and implement policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
Non-audit fees of Valuation, Existence and Ownership of Investments 21,000 2014 37,000 paid to the auditor during the year Mitigation - The valuation of investments is undertaken in under review were for i interim review of Half Yearly accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in notes Report: ii taxation services including one off claims for 1 a and 1 c to the financial statements on page 56.
All withholding tax repayments: iii services in connection investments are quoted in active markets and can be verified 42 Annual Report 2015 against daily market prices.
97.5% of investments are aware of any potential issues, explaining all relevant considered to be liquid and are therefore categorised as Level safeguards: A in accordance with the FRS 102 fair value hierarchy.
2.5% quality of audit work including the ability to resolve of investments are considered to be subject to some risk of issues in a timely manner - identified issues are illiquidity and are therefore categorised as Level B within the satisfactorily and promptly resolved: its FRS 102 fair value hierarchy.
The portfolio is reviewed and communications presentation of outputs - the explanation verified by the Manager on a regular basis and management of the audit plan, any deviations from it and the subsequent accounts including a full portfolio listing are prepared each audit findings are comprehensive and comprehensible: and month and circulated to the Board.
BNY Mellon has been working relationship with management - the auditor has a appointed as custodian and depositary to safeguard the constructive working relationship with the Board and the assets of the Company.
The Depositary checks the Manager: and consistency and accuracy of its records on a monthly basis quality of people and service including continuity and and reports its findings to AFML.
Separately, the investment succession plans - the audit team is made up of sufficient, portfolio is reconciled regularly by the Manager.
suitably experienced staff with provision made for knowledge of the investment company sector and retention Correct Calculation of Management and Performance Fees on rotation of the partner.
Mitigation - The management and performance fees are calculated by the Manager and reviewed periodically by the EY, and predecessor firms, have held office as auditor since Board.
The work undertaken by EY on the management fees the incorporation of the Company in 1907.
In accordance is detailed in the Auditors Report on page 46. with present professional guidelines the Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated after no more than five years and the year Recognition of Investment Income ended 31 December 2015 will be the second year for which Mitigation - The recognition of investment income is the present Senior Statutory Auditor has served.
The undertaken in accordance with accounting policy note 1 b Committee considers EY, the Companys auditor, to be to the financial statements on page 56.
Special dividends are independent of the Company.
The Audit Committee allocated to the capital or revenue accounts according to the arranged, in 2013, a tender for the Companys external audit nature of the payment and the intention of the underlying and invited EY to participate, alongside a number of other company.
The Manager provides monthly internal control audit firms of varying size.
Following the tender, the Audit reports to the Board.
Committee recommended to the Board that the reappointment of EY as auditor be put to shareholders for Compliance with Sections 1158 and 1159 approval at the AGM and shareholders approved the Mitigation - Approval for the Company as an investment reappointment of EY as auditor at the AGM in April 2014. trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years Under EU regulations, EY are required to rotate as auditor no commencing on or after 1 January 2012 has been obtained later than 2020 and, accordingly, the Board expects to hold and ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is the next tender for external audit services in 2019. monitored on a regular basis by the Manager and Board.
The Committee considers EY, the Companys auditor, to be Going Concern independent of the Company and therefore has Mitigation - The Directors have considered the Companys recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of EY be investment objective and risk management policies, the put to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow projections in conjunction with the formulation of the For and on behalf of the Audit Committee Viability Statement contained on page 11.
As a result, they have determined that the Company has adequate resources, Marcia Campbell an appropriate financial structure and suitable management Audit Committee Chairman arrangements in place to continue in operational existence 11 March 2016 for at least 12 months.
Review of Auditor We have reviewed the effectiveness of the auditor including: independence - the Auditor discusses with the Audit Committee, at least annually, the steps it takes to ensure its independence and objectivity and makes the Committee Murray International Trust PLC 43 Financial Statements Subject to approval of the final dividend, the total Ordinary dividend for the year will amount to 46.5p, an increase of 3.3% from last year 2014: 45.0p.
Nordea is a financial services group that provides banking services, financial products and related advisory services, predominantly servicing the Scandinavian countries and the Baltic region.
