CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Applicable Corporate Governance Codes The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, both published in February 2013 and amended in 2015.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, published in September 2014, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found at www.
On 1 January 2012, the Guernsey Financial Services Commissions GFSC Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance came into effect.
The GFSC have stated in their Code that companies, which report against the UK Code or the AIC Code, are deemed to meet their Code, and need take no further action.
On 17 September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC confirmed further changes to the UK Code and supporting guidance, which will apply to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 for year ends after 30 September 2015.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide were amended in February 2015 to reflect the updates made to the UK Code in 2014.
Corporate Governance Statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except where explanations have been provided.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers the following provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys dayto-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of the following provisions of the UK Code: The role of the Chief Executive Executive Directors remuneration Internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Directors believe that this report and financial statements presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Company complies with the corporate governance statement requirements pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue of the information included in the Corporate Governance section of the annual report together with information contained in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 17 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Directors William Frewen, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts were appointed on 10 March 2011.
Rupert Dorey was appointed on 1 March 2015.
William Frewen was re-elected as Chairman, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts were re-elected as Directors at the Annual General Meeting held on 17 June 2015 and Mr Dorey was elected as a Director at the 2015 AGM, being the first AGM following his appointment.
William Frewen Chairman William Frewen is a resident of the United Kingdom and has extensive experience in the fixed income sector.
William worked in a number of roles at Chemical Bank, Credit Suisse First Boston Limited and HSBC Bank plc from 1984 to 1998 before becoming head of Fixed Income Trading and deputy head of Capital Markets at Nomura International plc from 1998 to 2001.
He served as the NonExecutive Chairman of Playgolf Holdings plc from 2004 to 2007, a company that was admitted to AIM in 2004 under his chairmanship.
William also acted as a consultant to Man Group plc from 2005 to 2006 before becoming an executive member of the board and head of Fixed Income at Threadneedle Asset Management from 2007 to 2010.
Richard Battey Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director Richard Battey is a resident of Guernsey and is a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of AcenciA Debt Strategies Limited, Better Capital PCC Limited, Juridica Investments Limited, Pershing Square Holdings Limited, Princess Private Equity Holding Limited and Prospect Japan Fund Limited.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales having qualified with Baker Sutton & Co. in London in 1977.
Richard has been a non-executive Director of a number of investment companies and funds since leaving CanArgo Energy Corporation in 2006 where he was Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to that role, he spent 27 years with the Schroder Group.
Richard was a Director of Schroders C. I.
Limited in Guernsey from April 1994 to December 2004 where he served as Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer.
He was a Director of a number of the Schroder Groups Guernsey companies covering banking, investment management, trusts, insurance and private equity administration, retiring from his last Schroder Directorship in December 2008.
Rupert Dorey Rupert Dorey is a resident of Guernsey and has over 30 years of experience in financial markets.
Mr Dorey was at Credit Suisse First Boston Limited for 17 years from 1988 to 2005 where he specialised in credit related products, including derivative instruments where his expertise was principally in the areas of debt distribution, origination and trading, covering all types of debt from investment grade to high yield and distressed debt.
He held a number of senior positions at Credit Suisse First Boston Limited, including establishing Credit Suisse First Boston Limited's high yield debt distribution business in Europe, fixed income credit product coordinator for European offices and head of UK Credit and Rates Sales.
Since 2005 he has been acting in a Non-Executive Directorship capacity for a number of Hedge Funds, Private Equity & Infrastructure Funds, for both listed and unlisted vehicles.
Rupert is a former President of the Guernsey Chamber of Commerce and is a member of the Institute of Directors.
Sandra Platts Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee Sandra Platts is a resident of Guernsey and is a non-executive Director of Investec Bank C. I.
Limited, UK Commercial Property Trust Limited and Starwood European Finance Partners Limited.
Sandra was Managing Director of Kleinwort Benson in Guernsey and Chief Operating Officer for Kleinwort Benson Private Banking Group UK and Channel Islands.
She also held Directorships of the Kleinwort Benson Trust Company and Operating Boards, retiring from Kleinwort Benson boards in 2010.
Sandra holds a Masters in Business Administration and The Certificate in Company Direction from the Institute of Directors.
18 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Our Governance Framework Chairman William Frewen Responsibilities: The leadership, operation and governance of the Board, ensuring effectiveness, and setting the agenda for the Board.
The Board Members of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited: William Frewen Chairman, Richard Battey, Rupert Dorey and Sandra Platts all independent non-executive Directors Responsibilities: Overall conduct of the Company's business and setting the Company's strategy.
Remuneration and Nomination Management Engagement Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee Members: Members: Members: Sandra Platts Chairman Sandra Platts Chairman Richard Battey Chairman Richard Battey Richard Battey Rupert Dorey Rupert Dorey Rupert Dorey William Frewen William Frewen William Frewen Sandra Platts Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: To ensure the Board comprises individuals To review performance of all Service The provision of effective governance over with the necessary skills, knowledge and Providers including the Investment the appropriateness of the Companys experience to ensure that the Board is Manager.
financial reporting including the adequacy effective in discharging its responsibilities of related disclosures, the performance of and oversight of all matters relating to More details on pages 26 and 27. the external auditors, and the management corporate governance, and to review the of the Companys systems of internal on-going appropriateness and relevance financial and operating controls and of the remuneration policy.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 19 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Independence and Composition The Board, chaired by William Frewen who is responsible for its leadership and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, currently consists of four non-executive Directors.
The biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are listed on page 18, and demonstrate a breadth of investment, accounting and professional experience.
Mr Battey as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee acts as Senior Independent Director when necessary.
However, the Board considers that all the Directors have different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The balance and independence of our Board is kept under review by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, details of which can be found on pages 24 and 25.
The Chairman and all Directors are all currently independent of the Companys Investment Manager, the Company Secretary and the Administrator.
The Directors consider that there are no factors, as set out in the AIC Code, which compromise the Directors independence and that they all contribute to the affairs of the Company in an adequate manner.
The Board reviews the independence of all Directors annually and is re-assessed at each Board meeting.
The Company Secretary, C. L. Secretaries Limited through its representative acts as Secretary to the Board and Committees and in doing so it: assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant documentation: organises induction of new Directors: and is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
Directors Appointment No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Directors have agreed letters of appointment with the Company, copies of which are available for review by shareholders at the Registered Office and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
William Frewen, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts have served since incorporation of the Company.
Rupert Dorey has served since 1 March 2015.
Any Director may resign in writing to the Board at any time.
In accordance with the AIC Code, as a FTSE 250 company, all Directors will be subject to re-election annually by shareholders.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviewed the independence, contributions and performance of all Directors during the 2015 Board Evaluation process and have determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to propose that all Directors are proposed for re-election.
As Rupert Dorey was appointed on 1 March 2015, he was subject to election at the 2015 AGM, being the first AGM since his appointment.
Board Responsibilities The Board meets at least four times each year and deals with the important aspects of the Companys affairs including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy, and the review of investment performance.
The Investment Manager and AIFM take decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments, in line with the investment policy and strategy set by the Board.
The Investment Manager together with the Company Secretary also ensures that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information relating to the Company and its portfolio of investments.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling Directors to question any matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined and a procedure adopted for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company, this is available on the Companys website www.
20 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Board has adopted a policy on tenure that is considered appropriate for an investment company.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, leads to a closer relationship with the Investment Manager or necessarily affects a Directors independence.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well balanced and will be refreshed from time to time by the appointment of new Directors with the skills and experience necessary to replace those lost by Directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience of various areas relevant to the Companys business.
Years from first election to Date first elected Considered to be independent by 2016 AGM by shareholders the Board William Frewen June 2012 4 Yes Richard Battey June 2012 4 Yes Rupert Dorey June 2015 1 Yes Sandra Platts June 2012 4 Yes Re-election of Directors William Frewen, Richard Battey, Rupert Dorey and Sandra Platts submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on 15 June 2016.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM on 15 June 2016 continue to be effective and that the Company should support their reelection.
Conflict of Interests Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration and the Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise conflicts if deemed appropriate.
The Directors have undertaken to notify the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any new potential conflicts of interest that would need to be approved by the Board.
Only Directors who have no material interest in the matter being considered will be able to participate in the Board approval process.
It has also been agreed that the Directors will advise the Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment.
None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract, which is significant to the Companys business.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 39 provides information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
Board Diversity The Board considers that its members have a balance of skills and experience which are relevant to the Company.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and believes in the value and importance of diversity in the boardroom but it does not consider it is appropriate or in the interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender or nationality on the Board.
At 31 December 2015 the Board had 25% female representation.
The Board continues to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained from different backgrounds enhance the Board.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 21 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Performance Evaluation The performance of the Board, its Committees and the Directors was reviewed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in October 2015 by means of an internal questionnaire.
The Company Secretary collated the results of the questionnaires and the consolidated results were reviewed and discussed by the Board, as lead by the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
No areas of concern were raised.
As a result of the suggestions made in this years Board performance evaluation, the Board has agreed: That all Directors are considered independent: All Directors should be proposed for reappointment at the 2016 AGM: and The Board composition was diverse and appropriate in regards to skills, number, experience and gender.
In addition, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee excluding Mr Frewen reviewed the performance of the Chairman in his role led by the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
All Directors are members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and as such it is not considered necessary for the SID to lead the discussions, as all Directors participate.
The independence of all Directors was also considered.
The Chairman reviews each individual Directors contribution.
The Board intends to conduct another internal board evaluation in 2016, and will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
It is the intention of the Board to appoint an external consultant to undertake a review of the Board in 2017, being three years following the previous externally facilitated review.
Induction Information and Professional Development Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and its internal controls.
Regulatory and legislative changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise along with changes to best practice from, amongst others, the Company Secretary and the Auditors.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time on relevant topics and issues.
In addition, Directors attend relevant seminars and events to allow them to continually refresh their skills and knowledge and keep up with changes within the investment company industry.
The Chairman reviewed the training and development needs of each Director during the annual Board evaluation process, and is satisfied that all Directors actively keep up to date with industry developments and issues.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he she will be provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and his her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also spend time with representatives of the Investment Manager in order to learn more about their processes and procedures.
Rupert Dorey, as a newly appointed Director, was provided with an induction including provision of all relevant information regarding the Company, and meetings with the Directors, Corporate Brokers and the Company Secretary.
Mr Dorey was provided with a Letter of Appointment outlining his duties and responsibilities.
Mr Dorey also attended the 2015 Board Strategy day at the offices of the Investment Manager, attended a Board meeting held at offices of the AIFM in Chicago in November 2015 and learned more about their processes and procedures.
Independent Advice The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the Directors feels it is necessary to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
A procedure has been adopted to enable them to do so, which is managed by the Company Secretary.
22 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Indemnities To the extent permitted by Guernsey Law, the Companys Articles of Incorporation provide an indemnity for the Directors against any liability except such if any as they shall incur by or through their own breach of trust, breach of duty or negligence.
Each Director has an Instrument of Indemnity with the Company.
During the year, the Company has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
Board Meetings The Board meets at least quarterly.
Certain matters are considered at all quarterly board meetings including the performance of the investments, NAV and share price and associated matters such as asset allocation, risks, strategy, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Consideration is also given to administration and corporate governance matters, and where applicable, reports are received from the board committees.
Directors unable to attend a board meeting are provided with the board papers and can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or another non-executive Director.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its committees in the 2015 financial year Audit and Risk Remuneration and Management Board Committee Nomination Committee Engagement Committee Number of meetings during the year 8 4 2 2 William Frewen 4 3 2 2 Rupert Dorey 6 4 1 1 Richard Battey 8 4 2 2 Sandra Platts 7 4 2 2 In addition to these meetings, 6 ad-hoc meetings were held during the year for various matters including but not limited to scrip dividends.
Furthermore, a visit to the AIFMs offices in Chicago and visit to the SubAdministrators offices in Dublin were undertaken in the year.
Mr Frewen is resident in the UK and prevented by the Companys Articles from attending board meetings from the UK.
It is not deemed cost effective for the Company for him to travel to Guernsey for the regular meetings to approve dividends in line with the Companys dividend policy: he does however attend all quarterly board meetings.
Mr Dorey was appointed effective 1 March 2015 and has attended all scheduled meetings subsequent to his appointment.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a Management Engagement Committee and a Remuneration and Nomination Committee with defined terms of reference and duties.
Further details of these committees can be found in their reports on pages 26 to 34.
The terms of reference for each committee can be found on the Companys website www.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 23 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration and Nomination Committee Membership: Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director C. L. Secretaries Limited Secretary Key Objectives To ensure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, and to review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
Responsibilities Determine the remuneration of the Directors: Prepare an annual report on Directors remuneration: Considers the need to appoint external remuneration consultants: Regularly reviews and makes recommendations in relation to the structure, size and composition of the Board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the independence of the non-executive Directors: Oversees the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors see page 74 : Reviews the tenure of each of the non-executive Directors: Leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as Directors, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Company: Makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Boards committees: and Is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
Committee Meetings Only members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Secretary have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator are invited by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
In the event of matters arising concerning either an individuals membership of the Board or their remuneration, they would absent themselves from the meeting as required and another independent non-executive Director would take the chair if this applied to the Committee Chairman.
24 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Main Activities during the Year The Committee met twice during the year and considered succession planning, replenishment of the Board, the appointment of Rupert Dorey and reviewed the Directors remuneration.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the annual internal board evaluation and considered that the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company was appropriate.
It was agreed that the Board worked very well as a unit and that the appointment of Rupert Dorey had complemented the current Directors well.
The terms of reference for the Committee have incorporated the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and the AIC Code 2015.
The terms of reference remain appropriate and are available on the Companys website, www.
Rupert Dorey was appointed as a non-executive Director to the Board on 1 March 2015 due to the increased size and complexity of the Company and to assist in managing the additional workload of the Board.
The Committee believe that this appointment strengthens the Board and is part of the Companys succession planning.
The Committee led the process for the recruitment of the additional appointment to the Board.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
Candidates were identified and selected on merit against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Committee undertook a wide recruitment drive in 2014, which included searching for candidates from Guernsey, Jersey and the United Kingdom.
Lists of potential candidates were obtained from a variety of sources and the Committee agreed short-lists.
Numerous interviews were held with potential candidates.
The skills, experience and time availability of each candidate was considered by the Committee.
Short-listed candidates were invited to meet the Chairman and the Investment Manager and feedback was provided to the Board prior to selection.
The decision to appoint Rupert Dorey was based on merit of both skills and experience and was considered fair and nondiscriminatory.
The Boards diversity policy was agreed in March 2012.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and believes in and values the importance of diversity, including gender, to the effective functioning of the Board.
At 31 December 2015, the Board had 25% female representation.
A detailed Directors remuneration report to shareholders from the Committee on behalf of the Board, is contained on pages 35 to 39.
Sandra Platts On behalf of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee 18 April 2016 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 25 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Management Engagement Committee Membership: Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director C. L. Secretaries Limited Secretary Key Objectives To review performance of all Service Providers including the Investment Manager.
Responsibilities To annually review the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all Service Providers including the Investment Manager : Review and make recommendations on any proposed amendment to the Investment Management Agreement.
To review the performance of, and contractual arrangements with the Investment Manager including: Monitor and evaluate the Investment Managers investment performance and, if necessary providing appropriate guidance: To consider whether an independent appraisal of the Investment Managers services should be made: To consider requiring the Investment Manager to provide attribution and volatility analyses and considering whether these should be published: Review the level and method of remuneration and the notice period, using peer group comparisons: and To ensure that the Investment Manager has a sound system of risk management and internal controls and that these are maintained to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Companys assets.
Committee Meetings Only members of the Committee and the Secretary have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator may be invited by the Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
Main Activities during the Year The Committee met twice during the year and reviewed the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all Service Providers as at 27 October 2015 including the Investment Manager.
The Committee reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee and considered that they remained appropriate.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
The Board annually assesses the performance and value of its Service Providers.
On 1 March 2015, US Bancorp Fund Services Guernsey, Limited and Quintillion Limited were appointed as Administrator and Sub-Administrator respectively, in place of BNP Paribas Securities Services S. C. A. Guernsey Branch.
26 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Management Engagement Committee continued Main Activities during the Year continued In March 2015, the Board visited the offices of the Investment Manager in London to review and discuss the Companys strategy.
The Board also attended the offices of the Sub-Administrator, Quintillion Limited, in Dublin in July 2015 to learn about their processes and procedures and to review the performance of the Administrator.
The Board were satisfied with the performance of the sub-administrator and with the system and internal controls in place.
In November 2015, the Board also visited the Investment Managers offices in Chicago in conjunction with the November Board meetings.
The Board met with a number of personnel and learned more about the investment selection and diligence processes.
The Board used the opportunity to review the fees and performance of the Investment Manager and agreed that these remained appropriate.
Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a formal review of all Service Providers is conducted annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
As a result of the 2015 annual review it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued appointment of the current Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interest of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Manager has extensive investment management resources and wide experience in managing investments.
Sandra Platts On behalf of the Management Engagement Committee 18 April 2016 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 27 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit and Risk Committee Membership: Richard Battey - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director Sandra Platts Independent non-executive Director C. L. Secretaries Limited Secretary The Board believes it is appropriate for the Company Chairman to be a member of the Audit and Risk Committee as he is an independent nonexecutive Director.
Key Objectives The provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Companys financial reporting including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of the external auditors, and the management of the Companys systems of internal financial and operating controls and business risks.
Responsibilities Reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, financial statements and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: Reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and practices including critical accounting policies and practices: Advising the Board on whether the Audit and Risk Committee believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors: Considering the financial and other implications on the independence of the auditors arising from any non-audit services to be provided by the auditors: Analysis of key procedures adopted by the Company's Service Providers: Reporting to the Board on the effectivenss of the Companys risk management framework:and Compiling a report on its activities to be included in the Companys annual report.
The Committee members have a wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
The Chairman of the Committee is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, and has recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the AIC Code.
Therefore, the Board has designated him as its financial expert on the Committee.
28 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit and Risk Committee continued Committee Meetings The Committee meets at least three times a year.
Only members of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Secretary of the Committee have the right to attend Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator will be invited to attend Audit and Risk Committee meetings on a regular basis and other non-members may be invited to attend all or part of the meeting as and when appropriate and necessary.
The Companys external auditors,  CI LLP PwC is also invited to each meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee also met separately with PwC without the Investment Manager being present.
Main Activities during the Year The Committee assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment of internal financial and operating controls.
It also manages the Companys relationship with the external auditors.
Meetings of the Committee generally take place prior to a Company Board meeting.
The Committee reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
During the year the Board approved that the Audit Committee be renamed as the Audit and Risk Committee and that the Committees responsibilities were further expanded to include the review and effectiveness of the Companys risk management framework in relation to the investment policy: assessment of the risks involved in the Companys business and how they are controlled and monitored by the Investment Manager: to monitor and review the effectiveness of the risk management function of the Investment Manager and Administrator: to review the risks associated with the valuation of investments: review the Companys procedures concerning prevention and detection of fraud and to review the Companys arrangements for regulatory compliance.
The Board requested that the Committee advise them on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees terms of reference were updated during the year and can be found on the Companys website www.
At its four meetings during the year, the Committee focused on: Financial Reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and PwC the appropriateness of the half-year and annual financial statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or there has been discussion with the external auditor: ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 29 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit and Risk Committee continued Financial Reporting continued The review of the Viability Statement included in the Strategic Report: Whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: and Any correspondence from regulators in relation to the quality of our financial reporting.
To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and also reports from the external auditors on the outcomes of their half-year review and annual audit.
Significant Issues In relation to the annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, the following significant issue was considered by the Audit and Risk Committee: Significant Issue How the Issue was Addressed 1.
The valuation of the Companys investments.
The Committee analysed the Investment portfolio of the Company in terms of investment mix, fair value hierarchy and valuation.
As explained in Note 5 the majority of the investment portfolio is at Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy which requires market corroborated inputs for the calculation of fair value.
The Committee discussed in depth with the Investment Manager the appropriateness and robustness of the multi-sourced pricing information used and also had discussions with PwC, with regards to their approach to testing the appropriateness and robustness of the valuation methodology applied by the Investment Manager to the Companys portfolio.
The members of the Committee had meetings with PwC, where the audit findings were reported.
PwC did not notify the Committee of any reportable differences between the valuations used by the Company or custodian confirmation of holdings and the work performed during the testing process.
Based on the above review and analysis the Committee confirmed that they were satisfied with the valuation of the investments.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the UK Code.
The Committee is responsible overall for the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee receives reports from the Investment Manager on the Companys risk evaluation process and reviews changes to significant risks identified.
The Board has undertaken a full review of the Companys business risks, which have been analysed and recorded in a risk report, which is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Board receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
30 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit and Risk Committee continued Internal Controls and Risk Management continued The Investment Manager has established an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk department on an ongoing basis.
The Board reviewed the Investment Managers controls processes and considered the transition between administrators, including board oversight of the new Administrator and subAdministrator during the Strategy Day held at the Investment Managers offices.
The Boards assessment of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties is set out on pages 7 to 10.
By means of the procedures set out above, the Committee confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls for the year ended 31 December 2015 and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and that, no issues have been noted.
External Audit The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
The Committee received a detailed audit plan from PwC identifying their assessment of the significant audit risks.
For the 2015, financial year the significant audit risk identified was in relation to management override of controls.
This significant risk was tracked through the year and the Committee challenged the work performed by the auditors to test management override of controls and in addition the audit work undertaken in respect of investment income and valuations of investments.
The Committee assess the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing these matters through the reporting received from PwC at both the half-year and year-end.
In addition, the Committee seeks feedback from the Investment Manager, Company Secretary and the Administrator on the effectiveness of the audit process.
For the 2015 financial year, the Committee was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the significant and other key areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
The Committee held private meetings with PwC, including the audit partner between Committee meetings to provide additional opportunities for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and PwC without the Investment Manager being present.
Appointment and Independence The Committee considers the reappointment of PwC, including the rotation of the audit partner, and assesses their independence on an annual basis.
PwC is required under Ethical Standards to rotate the audit partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The current audit partner has overseen the audit of the Company for the three financial years to 31 December 2015.
PwC has been the Companys statutory auditors since its stock exchange listing in 2011 and has to date audited all five financial years to 31 December 2015.
The Company is incorporated in Guernsey, and therefore despite being listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and being in the FTSE350 Index, it is not required to comply with The Statutory Audit Services for Larger Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order which came into force in the UK on 1 January 2015.
The Committee does however keep these developments under review when determining policy on audit tendering and therefore the Company will seek to comply with the provisions of the Order.
In the past the Company has been guided by the UK Corporate Governance Code as to the recommendation to put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
As this year is the fifth for publishing the Companys annual report and financial statements and the Company has not yet completed a competitive tender process for auditor appointments.
The Company is presently minded that it will complete such a tender process in respect of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2020.
The Company presently believes that this is in the best interests of shareholders in view of the quality and level of service presently being provided by PwC.
Having carried out a review of the performance of PwC for this current financial reporting period, it is currently expected that PwC will remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them for the 2016 audit will therefore be proposed at the AGM.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 31 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit and Risk Committee continued Appointment and Independence continued In its assessment of the independence of the external auditors, the Committee receives details of any relationships between the Company and PwC that may have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that the external auditors are independent of the Company.
The Committee approved the fees for audit services for 2015 after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, and after being satisfied by PwC that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
Non Audit Services To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors from becoming compromised, the Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
No material changes have been made to this policy during the year.
The external auditors and the Directors have agreed that all non-audit services require the pre-approval of the Committee prior to commencing any work.
Fees for non-audit services are tabled annually so that the Committee can consider the impact on external auditors objectivity.
The external auditors were remunerated 120,102 for their services rendered in 2015.
Of this amount, 87,040 was in relation to the year-end audit and 33,062 was in relation to the procedures performed in respect to the half-year review.
No non-audit services were undertaken by PwC for the Company during the year.
The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by PwC, and is satisfied with their independence.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed as external auditors for the year ending 31 December 2016, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
The auditors, PwC, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment of PwC as our external auditors will be put to the shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors and we do not indemnify our external auditors.
Committee Evaluation The Committees activities formed part of the Board evaluation performed in the year.
Details of this process can be found under Performance evaluation on page 22.
Richard Battey On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee 18 April 2016 32 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Relationship with the Investment Manager, Company Secretary and the Administrator The Board has delegated various duties to external parties including the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services including the safeguarding of assets, the registration services and the day-to-day company secretarial, administration and accounting services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the Investment Manager, Administrator, Sub-Administrator and Company Secretary along with ad hoc reports and information supplied to the Board as required.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and SubAdministrator also ensure that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator attend each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board has been defined and is reviewed annually, and a procedure adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company within certain parameters.
The Directors have access to the advice and service of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board, the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Shareholder Engagement The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with shareholders is important for the long-term prospects of the Company.
It has, since admission, sought engagement with shareholders.
Where appropriate the Chairman, and other Directors are available for discussion about governance and strategy with shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board receives feedback on the views of shareholders from its Corporate Brokers and the Investment Manager, and shareholders are welcome to contact the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or any other Director at any time via the Company Secretary.
During the year the Company continued quarterly investor update calls, which can be accessed via conference call or WebEx, details are published via an RIS.
The Board also welcomes the opportunity to meet with investors on a one-to-one basis, upon request.
The Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee will consult with Shareholders should it be proposed to increase the current aggregate limit of annual Directors fees as set out in the Companys Articles of Incorporation.
The Board believes that the AGM provides an appropriate forum for shareholders to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
All Directors will attend the AGM.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman of the Board, the Senior Independent Director, the Audit and Risk Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee at the AGM.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution will be made available to shareholders at the meeting and will be posted on the Companys website following the meeting.
Where the Board considers that a significant number of votes have been lodged against a proposed resolution, the Board intends to identify those shareholders and further understand their views.
The Annual and Half-Year Reports, monthly fact sheet and monthly holdings are available to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication on the London Stock Exchange of the net asset value of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Board is informed of relevant promotional documents issued by the Investment Manager.
All documents issued by the Company can be viewed on the website, www.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 33 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held in Guernsey on 15 June 2016 at 13:00 BST.
The Notice for the Annual General Meeting sets out the ordinary and special resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
It is the intention of the Board that the Notice of AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the meeting and specifically related to the resolutions proposed are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address given on page 74.
At other times the Company Secretary responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
The proxy votes cast, including details of votes withheld are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results are published on our website and announced via an RIS.
