Strategic report 13 OUR CUSTOMERS Who they are We have 18.9 million customers across the Group.
They range from individuals to large pension funds who trust us to invest STAKEHOLDER their clients money on their behalf.
Our individual customers cover the full RELATIONSHIPS spectrum from high-net worth investors to people engaging with a financial services company for the first time.
We provide Old Mutuals stakeholders are any them with a range of services, including life insurance, property and casualty insurance, individuals, groups or organisations banking services and investments.
that are, or could be, affected by what we do as an organisation.
How we engage with our customers Our customers are at the heart of everything we do.
We can only be successful with their continued support and trust.
It is crucial that we treat them fairly and provide them with the products, returns and service they expect from an institution to which they entrust their savings.
That is why we invest significant resources in making customers the focus of our company.
We engage with them in a variety of ways: face-to-face, through financial advisers, online, on social media and through advertising campaigns.
Why we engage with Why our stakeholders How we delivered our stakeholders engage with us value in 2015 Our relationships with our stakeholders can Our stakeholders engage with us for a Old Mutual Emerging Markets launched a number of new products, including South have both direct and indirect impacts on our variety of reasons, but generally because Africas first Tax-Free Savings Account.
So it is vital that we engage with our business has a direct or indirect impact Acknowledging South Africas success in these key audiences proactively.
We see on their lives or their work.
For example, significantly improving the life expectancy of our primary stakeholders as our customers, our regulators engage with us to ensure people living with HIV, we increased the level the communities in which we operate, we meet their requirements, our customers of insurance cover for our mass foundation our employees, our regulators and our engage with us because they trust us to look customers by releasing some of the reserves suppliers.
Engagement with these groups after their financial lives, and communities previously set aside due to mortality rates.
can help us to run our business more may engage with us because they believe We also ramped up our financial education effectively and mitigate against potential we can partner with them on common programme reaching 20,000 new risks.
The way we engage with stakeholders, social or environmental issues.
customers through our Moneyversity online and how often, depends on the individual financial education tool, and over 100,000 stakeholder and their issues or concerns.
18.9 million customers across the Group OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 14 customers through our On The Money Our priorities for 2016 financial education workshops.
Our South We continue to put the customer first in S TAKEHOLDER African Property & Casualty business everything we do.
In our South African and RELATIONSHIPS improved its app giving customers other African businesses we have a number CONTINUED emergency assistance, incident guides, of specific targets: improving the customer weather alerts and feedback channels for experience in our branch models by complaints or compliments.
reducing queuing times and ensuring Numerous improvements to our UK consistent standards, being more accessible customer offering included a new to customers, and offering more products protection product, clearer half-yearly online through channels such as our app statements, heightened customer service and digital shop.
levels, and immediate compliance with the In the UK we are undertaking a significant significant changes to the UK pensions IT project which will transform our customer regime coupled with enhancements to our experience.
We will continue to improve existing product, including our flexible customer service and our offering for drawdown offering.
Left: Almon Mhlanga Right: Vuminkhosi Masuku Our customers are at the heart of everything we do Johannesburg, South Africa Gail Klintworth Group Customer Director Learning together Swaziland head teacher Almon Mhlanga is a strong advocate of Old Mutuals On The Money education programme, and applies its principles to his own finances.
The Old Mutual investment plan he opened in the 1990s matured in 201 1.
Its paid for his daughters university education and his sons secondary schooling.
Hes built a new house and still has enough to fulfil his sons dream of studying in Europe.
Its an example hes encouraging his younger staff to follow and hes opened another Old Mutual investment plan of his own Old Mutual has helped me achieve so much!
Almon Mhlanga 20,000 new customers reached through our Moneyversity online financial education tool Over 100,000 customers reached through our On The Money online financial education workshops OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report challenges, we also support projects that 15 best promote local sustainable growth for example, food security and our venture with OUR small farmers in Zimbabwe.
COMMUNITIES OUR Who they are Old Mutual has significant operations in EMPLOYEES over 30 countries.
We interact with local communities to create long-term sustainable partnerships, using our corporate knowledge and experience to Who they are enable positive futures.
We employ 64,043 people across the Group.
They come from a wide variety How we engage with of nations and cultures and speak many our communities different languages.
To remain an We seek to take into account the concerns employer of choice we must constantly seek of the wider community, including both employee feedback that helps us national and local interests.
We engage understand and respond to their needs and with communities through employee concerns.
Maintaining wellbeing is crucial volunteering, cash donations to local for us to ensure our employees can be as charitable projects and groups, productive as possible.
partnerships, sponsorships, and a variety of communication channels: face-to-face, How we engage with online and advertising.
our employees Our employee relationships are based on How we delivered respect for each individual.
We manage value in 2015 and interact with one another in accordance 16.7m We continued to serve the communities in with the Groups core values.
The channels which we operate by providing our services we use for engaging with employees include efficiently and profitably and by providing email, focus groups, forums, workshops, fair and equitable employment special events and an annual culture survey opportunities and conditions.
In addition, of all employees.
We constantly strive to Invested in we made donations to charities and introduce new and effective methods of charitable organisations projects and looked to support communities engaging with our employees.
Where in 2015 by developing profitable and sustainable necessary, we use appropriate dispute financial products that benefit some of the resolution processes and make all poorest in society.
For example, Old Mutual reasonable efforts to resolve issues locally.
became a founding member of Blue Marble, a micro-insurance venture How we delivered incubator whose first project involves value in 2015 insuring Zimbabwean smallholder farmers.
Old Mutual was voted South Africas number one employer in financial services Our priorities for 2016 and insurance for the fifth year in a row.
Our priorities for 2016 will reflect our We were ranked number two out of all aspiration to grow sustainable and thriving companies in South Africa and number societies.
We believe we can do this best by one in Africa by the Top Employers Institute.
focusing on education and skills development particularly financial During 2015 we invested in digital platforms education.
Recognising that each country to give our employees across the Group in which we operate faces specific local up-to date, tailored information on Group South Africas Number 1 employer in financial services and insurance Africas Number 1 employer across all companies OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 16 strategy, performance and key achievements.
Our research showed S TAKEHOLDER continuing increases in engagement and RELATIONSHIPS interest from employees across all levels CONTINUED and all business units in the Groups purpose, strategy and performance.
We successfully used one of the Groups key sponsorship events, the Old Mutual Our commitment Two Oceans Marathon, to further to human rights enhance employee engagement.
Our commitment to respect human operations and are developing ways to Our priorities for 2016 rights and to comply with the Universal address them.
Whilst respecting human We will continue striving to be the Declaration of Human Rights is rights throughout our business, we are employer of choice in all the markets embedded in our Code of Conduct identifying priority areas to mitigate risk where we operate, so that we attract and employment practices.
and taking steps to ensure we do not the best talent to work for the Group.
cause or contribute to negative human We continue to build on our responsible rights impacts.
investment approach by remaining sensitive to the risk of breaching human Over the next five years, we will continue rights resulting from our investments.
In particular, OUR We risk-assess the impact of new integrating our approach to human investments for the protection and rights with our existing risk management SUPPLIERS respect of human rights and for and responsible business governance potential human rights abuses.
structures so that issues are identified and managed at a Group and business unit We value our engagement and level.
In parallel, we will continue with our Who they are collaboration with a range of approach to responsible investments as Across the Group we engage with numerous stakeholders including those in part of our Positive Futures Plan, which suppliers.
They include IT providers, our supply and investment chains.
commits us to transparency in our consultants, energy suppliers, companies investment approach and to driving As part of our activity in this area, we providing physical assets such as stationery have started to establish where the salient positive societal value.
human rights risks are across our business How we engage with our suppliers The way we engage with our suppliers depends on the nature of the relationship, whether we see the supplier as strategic Our approach to business or tactical, and the degree of contractual complexity involved.
We have processes for is to establish and maintain tendering and engaging multiple suppliers to ensure that appropriate due diligence is long-term relationships, undertaken and that all suppliers participate so we must be accountable on a fair and equal basis.
All key suppliers are subject to regular review meetings: the in several years time for what frequency will reflect the level of spend and we do and say today the degree of risk involved.
Our approach to business is to establish and maintain long-term relationships, so we must be accountable in several years time for Gail Klintworth what we do and say today.
Group Customer Director We will continue striving to be the employer of choice in all the markets where we operate Don Schneider Group HR Director OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 17 How we delivered How we engage with value in 2015 our regulators As with all aspects of the way we do We strive to meet the compliance business, integrity in our dealings with obligations established by our regulators suppliers is a prerequisite for our success.
across the Group in an open and honest In 2015 we maintained a high standard of manner.
We embrace regulatory objectives integrity, acting in the best interests of the as these are good for our customers and Group and complying with our code of our regulators.
We continued to help suppliers We engage with them constructively to with their development in areas such as support the continuing development of environmental management, quality financial services regulation.
Examples include management and process improvement.
our engagement with the Financial Advice Market Review in the UK and our ongoing Our priorities for 2016 interactions with South African regulators in We will continue to focus on ethical working developing the requirements for the Twin practices, establishing rules of engagement Peaks model and Conglomerate Supervision.
between ourselves and our suppliers, and adhering to due diligence and background We have procedures in place to address any check requirements.
We will continue to regulatory concerns, taking corrective action develop long-term, healthy and transparent where necessary and reporting progress to working relationships, ensuring that service We will continue our regulators promptly.
delivery meets expectations and is consistently to focus on ethical and accurately monitored through the contract lifecycle.
And we will continue to working practices, promote sustainability in procurement.
establishing rules of engagement between ourselves OUR and our suppliers We engage REGULATORS with them constructively Ingrid Johnson Group Finance Director Who they are to support the As a financial firm that provides insurance, continuing banking and investment services to both retail and institutional customers, we are development of regulated in each of the countries where we operate.
Financial regulation governs financial services what financial institutions can and cannot regulation do.
The rules are generally devised and enforced to protect investors and depositors, maintain orderly markets and promote financial stability.
The range Sue Kean of regulatory activity can include setting Group Chief Risk Officer minimum standards for capital and conduct, making regular inspections, and investigating and prosecuting misconduct.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
