Governance 115 Primary responsibilities of the Group Audit Committee Financial and capital reporting Internal Audit Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements Approve the appointment of the Group Internal Audit Director and review the critical accounting policies Approve the annual Group Internal Audit plan Review and challenge, where necessary, managements Review results of Internal Audit work and management plans critical accounting estimates and judgements in relation to the to address issues raised interim and annual financial statements Review Internal Audits annual assessment of controls Review the content of the Annual Report and Accounts Monitor external effectiveness reviews of Internal Audit.
and interim results and advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable Review the going concern and viability statements so as to be able to report the committees views on these to the Board Consider the Groups Solvency II capital calculations and methodologies, with input from the Group Chief Actuary and the external auditor Determine whether any training or education sessions are required by the committee on specific issues.
External audit Internal control and risk management Make recommendations concerning the appointment, Review the effectiveness of systems for internal control, reappointment and removal of the external auditor financial reporting and risk management Be responsible for the Groups audit tender process Liaise with other business unit audit committees and ensure all relevant issues are communicated to the committee Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, including the terms of engagement including remuneration and their Consider the major findings of any internal investigations effectiveness, independence and objectivity into control weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and managements response.
Agree the policy for and provision of non-audit services Agree the policy on the employment of former employees of the external auditor Review the qualifications, expertise and resources of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process Approve the annual audit plan, to ensure that it is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement and coordinated Whistleblowing with the activities of the Groups Internal Audit function Review arrangements by which employees may confidentially Review the findings of audits with the external auditor and raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial consider managements responsiveness to audit findings reporting or other matters.
and recommendations Monitor the effectiveness of the external audit by a formal annual assessment and also the results of any reviews published by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 116 The committee received a report from the Proposed acquisitions, disposals and Chief Risk Officer on risk and regulatory other strategic projects being undertaken CORPOR ATE matters at each of its scheduled meetings by the Group, including the execution GOVERNANCE during 2015, in which changes to the of Old Mutual Wealths outsourcing CONTINUED Groups risk profile were identified and arrangements with IFDS, the sale of discussed.
We also reviewed the risk Old Mutual Bermuda to Beechwood and appetite metrics operated by the Group.
other potential acquisitions and disposals across the Group.
Areas of focus Changes to the Group Operating REPORT FROM THE During our meetings in 2015, we focused on: Model and to the Groups suite of risk BOARD RISK The preparations by the Group and policies and standards, to reflect the COMMITTEE individual business units for the Groups developing strategy and the implementation of the Solvency II external environment.
Directive and, in South Africa, the I received updates between the scheduled SAM regime.
meetings through my regular meetings with The Groups Own Risk and Solvency the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief Assessment ORSA, under which the Actuary.
The committee also held a private Group identifies and assesses its risks meeting with the Chief Risk Officer.
and determines the resources necessary In connection with the finalisation of the to ensure that its solvency needs are met Groups annual results, the committee and are sufficient to achieve its business reviewed and approved the Chief Risk strategy.
In the early part of the year, Officers report for the Remuneration the committee considered a series of Committee setting out conclusions drawn scenarios as a means of testing the from the risk and control indicators used forward-looking assessment of risk.
across the Group, in order to assist the This included an assessment of the risks Mike Arnold Remuneration Committee in its deliberations.
of a downturn in the South African Chairman of the macro-economic environment, including The committee also undertook a review of its Board Risk Committee a downgrade in the countrys sovereign performance against its terms of reference.
The committee reviewed The committee complied with the vast The Board is responsible for maintaining and considered the ORSA before it was majority of the requirements of the terms of approved by the Board.
sound risk management and internal control reference and put plans in place to ensure systems.
In order to meet that objective, it The business units arrangements that the remaining items could be addressed.
has mandated the Board Risk Committee for managing cyber-risk and During 2015, either Roger Marshall or I the committee to reinforce a strong risk information security.
personally attended meetings of the risk and culture by ensuring that the Group fulfils its The continuing development of the audit committees of the major subsidiaries of strategic objectives within the stated risk Groups risk and control culture.
We have ongoing dialogue with framework, that poor practice in risk Assessments of the Groups capital and the independent non-executive directors of management is challenged, and that solvency position, including the impact of those subsidiaries who chair their committees sustained improvements in risk the external macro-economic and, in addition, the committee as a whole management are made.
During 2015, the environment and of market volatility.
held a meeting with the chairmen of the risk committee continued to meet that objective committees of the Groups South African by overseeing, reviewing and monitoring the businesses.
I plan to continue to attend Groups risk management and risk culture.
subsidiary committee meetings in 2016, in The committee met eight times during the order to remain close to the major risk issues year, with three meetings being additional to In 2016, in addition in those subsidiaries, and intend to work the five originally scheduled.
The additional more collaboratively with those subsidiaries to the existing meetings were convened to review the committees.
implementation of the Solvency II Directive regular items on the and to consider strategic projects.
One of the Plans for 2016 additional meetings, and part of one of the committees agenda, In 2016, in addition to the existing regular scheduled meetings, were held jointly with items on the committees agenda, the the committee the Group Audit Committee.
The Chief Risk committee will be closely involved in the Officer and the Group Chief Actuary review and execution of the Companys will be closely attended each meeting.
The Group Internal strategic review and, in particular, the involved in the Audit Director was invited to attend all the required steps to achieve the managed meetings and attended the majority of them.
The committee will also enhance review and execution The external auditor was invited to attend all its focus on the oversight and governance of of the Companys of the meetings.
credit risk given, among other matters, the planned growth of the emerging markets The Board also held a workshop session strategic review businesses which take on credit risk.
on risk which I chaired and which was attended by all members of the committee and the majority of the members of the Board.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance During 2015, we dedicated a significant gravitas, given the potential importance of 117 amount of the committees time to the role, and were delighted, following an REPORT FROM THE overseeing the succession planning process intensive search, to be able to engage NOMINATION AND for the Group Chief Executive.
MWM Trevor Manuel for this purpose.
He has GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Consulting was engaged to conduct an joined the Old Mutual plc Board from external search and also to oversee the 1 January 2016 and it is intended that he consideration of potential internal will become Chairman of OMGH later in candidates, who were benchmarked the year, succeeding Paul Hanratty in this alongside the external shortlist.
While the legislation to implement committee was satisfied with the South African Twin Peaks has taken independence of MWM Consulting, as it longer to promulgate than originally did not carry out any other significant work envisaged, we are continuing to support for members of the Group during the year.
Trevor Manuel as he and our colleagues Following a thorough review and extensive at OMGH establish the appropriate interviews, we recommended to the Board governance protocols.
and the Board confirmed the selection of In addition to our work described above, Bruce Hemphill as the successor to Julian we continued during the year to monitor Roberts as Group Chief Executive, based talent management and diversity initiatives, on his relevant experience of financial Patrick OSullivan progress against action items identified by services, particularly in South Africa, and Chairman of the Nomination the previous years  his impressive management track record.
Board effectiveness review, and the process and Governance Committee On stepping down from the Board, Julian for conducting the 2015 review.
Roberts also ceased to be Chairman of Our role as the Nomination and The committee considers the current Board our separately-listed US asset management composition at Old Mutual plc level suitable Governance Committee the committee business, OMAM.
The committee agreed for the Groups business requirements.
is to review and make recommendations a process with OMAMs board for a However, such matters are kept under active to the Board on the appointment of successor to be identified, leading to the directors, the structure of the Board and the review, considering scheduled retirements selection of one of OMAMs existing of non-executive directors and the Groups appropriate governance arrangements non-executive directors, Jim Ritchie, as its future strategy.
In last years report, I between Old Mutual plc as the parent new Chairman.
company and its underlying major described our succession plans The committee also considered the for myself as Chairman of the Board businesses.
We also review development consequences flowing from Chief Nomination and Governance Committee and succession plans for the Groups most senior executive management and Operating Officer Paul Hanrattys and for the Chairmen of the Boards other forthcoming departure from the Group standing committees as follows: certain appointments to the boards and and agreed that he would step down from standing committees of principal subsidiaries Myself as Chairman of the Board the Board from 12 March 2016 but remain in line with the Group Operating Model.
We Nomination and Governance Committee receive regular updates on the composition available to the Group until the end of his and Mike Arnold, who is currently 12-month notice period, which will expire of principal subsidiary boards, which include Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, on 14 September 2016.
He has been details of the skills represented on such to retire at the AGM in 2017 boards and the subsidiary companies own replaced as Chairman of Old Mutual Roger Marshall, who is currently Wealth by Bruce Hemphill and a process is succession plans.
This enables us to ensure Chairman of the Group Audit Committee, also under way to appoint his successor as that these bodies remain equipped to meet and Alan Gillespie, as Senior the Groups needs.
Chairman of Old Mutual Emerging Independent Director, to retire at the Markets OMEM.
The committee decided In planning for refreshing and renewing AGM in 2018 that, in light of Bruce Hemphills the Boards composition, we aim to ensure appointment as the new Group Chief Danuta Gray, who is Chairman of the that changes take place without undue Executive and the strategic review that he Remuneration Committee, to retire at disruption and that there is an appropriate planned to conduct, it was not appropriate the AGM in 2019. balance of experience and length of to appoint another Chief Operating Officer We will now review these arrangements service.
We also ensure that our process for to replace Paul Hanratty.
afresh in light of the outcome of the identifying and recommending candidates Groups strategic review announced Our other major area of focus during the as Board directors is formal, rigorous and on 11 March 2016 and the timetable for transparent.
Vacancies generally arise in year was planning for the anticipated its likely implementation.
introduction of Twin Peaks regulation in the context of either planned renewal of South Africa and ensuring that Old Mutual the Board, replacing directors who are due Group Holdings OMGH, the South to retire, or adjusting the Boards balance of knowledge, skills, independence or African holding company for our two domestic systemically important financial diversity.
In identifying candidates and institutions, OMEM and Nedbank, had the making recommendations, we pay appropriate regard to the independence necessary facilities and governance arrangements in place to fulfil regulatory of candidates, their ability to meet the expectations.
We were particularly keen to expected time commitment involved and their suitability and willingness to serve on recruit an independent Chairman of that company with the necessary standing and Board committees.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 118 Copies of all investor presentations and, How does the Company where appropriate, transcripts are posted conduct its investor relations?
CORPOR ATE on the Companys website so that they are We continue to make significant efforts to GOVERNANCE accessible to shareholders generally.
educate the public markets and to CONTINUED Currently 16 sell-side analysts from Europe communicate openly with our global and South Africa actively publish research shareholders, institutional debt and equity on the Company.
We encourage sell-side investors, and sell-side analysts by means analysts to cover the Company giving of a proactive investor relations IR investors their opinions on the Groups programme run by a small, dedicated IR valuation, its performance and the business team based in London and South Africa.
environment in which it operates and also The team works closely with the media to make meaningful comparisons with our relations, Responsible Business and peers.
During 2015, one South Africapublic affairs teams around the Group.
based research analyst ceased coverage Old Mutuals investor base is very diverse of our stock, but we expect coverage to in both investor style and geographic resume in 2016.
We continue to work to location and the Group has around maximise the coverage of the stock with two 440,000 retail shareholders.
US research houses to increase our reach Our objective is to facilitate communication with global investors.
with the global investment community The Chairman makes contact with major and to keep investors updated on the investors and meets them as required.
During 2015, we The Senior Independent Director is also maintained a dialogue with investors and available for interaction with shareholders.
sell-side analysts, through briefings and Matters raised in these governance-focused educational support, to give them a better meetings during 2015 included Group understanding of the Groups operations, strategy, regulatory developments, with particular focus on the Groups remuneration, succession planning, corporate development.
We increased our communication and Our objective is The IR team updates the Board on issues engagement with the investment community to facilitate arising from communications with the during the year, attending 15 investment investment community.
It also commissions conferences in the US, Europe and South communication independent surveys to inform the Board Africa.
In addition, we conducted investor about how major investors see the with the global presentations in London, Cape Town and Companys management and performance.
We intend to continue using investment technology to facilitate more effective Our intranet gives employees easy access communication and we explore ways of community and to key information about the Group, using it to enhance both interim and including its culture, vision, strategy and to keep investors full-year results presentations.
Regular senior supported the Groups strategic activities updated on management roadshows give employees in the period.
further opportunities to understand more the Groups about the aims of the Group.
We extended the geographical reach of performance our investor-targeting in 2015, visiting Abu Number of investor events during Dhabi, Tokyo and Hong Kong to meet with 2015 excluding sell-side and debt and equity investors, including those governance meetings who specialise in emerging markets.
269 events in total We held IR meetings with investors in the 238 with management 31 IR only UK, South Africa, North America and 223 institutions continental Europe, involving 223 individual institutions.
Most meetings involved the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director or another member of the senior management team.
The Group Finance Director continued to build relationships during 2015, in particular one-to-one meetings with sell-side analysts in Europe and South Africa.
Following his appointment in November 2015, the new Group Chief Executive met with some of our major shareholders in London and South Africa.
He will undertake a further programme of introductions to investors and sell-side analysts during 2016.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
