Governance Hemphill, who replaced Julian Roberts with 103 effect from the beginning of November 2015.
Vassi Naidoo joined the Board as a new non-executive director in May 2015, succeeding Reuel Khoza as Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited and Nedbank CORPORATE Limited, and Trevor Manuel, the former South African Minister of Finance, has joined the Board as a new non-executive director GOVERNANCE with effect from January 2016.
We have five female members of the Board and I am delighted that our progress in fostering diversity on our Board was recognised during 2015 by our being cited as the UK public company that had made the best progress in this area over the past few years.
During 2015, the Board focused on operational delivery and execution, including the integration of the Groups significant recent acquisitions in the UK, South Africa and the Rest of Africa.
Board meetings were held in Johannesburg in June July and in Cape Town in November December.
Other areas of particular Board focus this year included preparations for Solvency II and the forthcoming introduction of Twin Peaks regulation in South Africa, with its associated implications for the governance and oversight of the Groups major businesses in that country.
We have recently embarked on a review of Board information and other materials to ensure that these remain appropriately focused and fit for purpose.
This topic was also raised by those consulted during our annual Board evaluation process, which was conducted internally this year.
Patrick OSullivan A fuller account of the Boards activities Chairman is included in the following pages.
We shall be saying farewell to our Group I am pleased to introduce this Corporate We have also included in our Corporate Company Secretary, Martin Murray, this Governance report in which, among other Governance report this year, in response year, as he is due to retire at the end of May, things, we describe the Companys to changes in the latest version of the after 17 years in his current role with the compliance with the UK Corporate UK Corporate Governance Code, a Company.
I would like to thank him for his Governance Code 2014, explain how the statement about the longer-term viability valuable contribution over this period.
Board and its main standing committees of the Group, which sits alongside our Annual General Meeting have operated during the past year, going concern statement.
and describe how effective stewardship AGM Board is exercised over the Groups activities Our AGM will be held in London later in Since last years report, we have recruited in the interests of shareholders and the year.
As described in the Directors a new Group Chief Executive, Bruce other stakeholders.
Remuneration Report, we will be consulting about proposed changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy following the outcome of the strategic review, so we will convene our AGM once this has been completed.
As usual, the AGM will be webcast via our website and there will be an opportunity for shareholders to submit questions beforehand to be dealt with at the meeting.
BOARD FOCUS DURING 2015 Our shareholder circular relating to the Group Chief Executive succession AGM will include further details.
We will continue to monitor and develop Preparation for the introduction of Solvency II our Groups corporate governance as we Future strategic positioning and development adapt to an ever-changing environment.
Continued monitoring of the Groups culture Patrick OSullivan and investors views of the Company Chairman OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
