50 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance report development of the Bank.
Stephan Wilcke Dear Shareholder, UK Corporate Governance Code will step down from the Board at the I am pleased to present to you the the Code Compliance AGM this year.
I would like to thank him Companys Corporate Governance Statement for the enormous contribution he has Report for 2015, and to report our full During this, the Companys first full made to the success of the Bank over compliance throughout the year with financial year since listing on the the past five years, and wish him well the UK Corporate Governance Code as Main Market of the London Stock in all his future ventures.
This includes the new Exchange in 2014, the Company has its Committees established following provisions as now required in Section C of applied all of the main principles the IPO in 2014 are now well bedded in the Code regarding risk management and of the Code and has complied and operating effectively, as identified internal control and viability statements.
with all Code provisions, including in the formal performance review provision A.
4.2 which requires that exercise carried out during 2015, details The Board continues to be committed the Chairman should hold meetings of which are set out in the Report below.
to the highest standards of corporate with the Non-Executive Directors governance and considers that good without the executives present on The Investor Relations function corporate governance is essential to which the Company reported in established at the time of the IPO provide the executive team with the its 2014 Annual Report that it had continues to assist the Board in environment and culture in which to been non-compliant last year.
developing a programme of meetings drive the success of the business.
The and presentations to both institutional sound governance structures which and private shareholders, details of which were in place since prior to the IPO are also set out in the Report.
We also have been developed further leading held the Companys first Annual General to the Companys full compliance Meeting as a listed entity in June 2015, with the Code throughout 2015. and welcome shareholders to attend the second AGM of the Company, which will We welcomed Eric Anstee to the Board be held at the Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns in December 2015 as an independent Inn Fields, London on 11 May 2016.
His extensive financial skills and knowledge of Mike Fairey the Financial Services industry are Non-Executive Chairman extremely valuable to the continued The Board Leadership, Strategic Aims, Risk, Values and Standards Operating Committee Disclosure Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Mike Fairey To approve limited Mike Fairey Approving regulatory matters relating to disclosures.
Members subsidiary companies Members Andy Golding and banking Andy Golding April Talintyre arrangements.
April Talintyre 1 1 1 1 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Governance Committee Risk Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Eric Anstee Monitoring the integrity Mary McNamara Determination of specific Mike Fairey Consider and make Graham Allatt Oversight of the of financial statements.
remuneration packages recommendations to Groups risk appetite, Members Ensuring that an effective Members for all Executive Directors Members the Board in respect of Members risk monitoring and Graham Allatt system of internal Malcolm McCaig and certain senior Rod Duke appointments and ensuring Rod Duke capital management.
Rod Duke controls is maintained Nathan Moss executives of the Group.
Dr David Morgan that the structure, size and Mary McNamara Oversight and advice Malcolm McCaig and monitoring Nathan Moss composition of the Board is April Talintyre to the Board on accounting policies.
Mary McNamara kept under review.
Oversight Eric Anstee current risk exposures of corporate governance and future risk arrangements and strategy.
More information More information More information Audit Committee Nomination and Governance Directors Remuneration report page 62 Committee report page 58 report page 69 Executive Committee Members Key responsibilities Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Risk Assist the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including development & implementation of Officer General Counsel & Company Secretary, Chief Credit Officer, Sales & the strategic plan, strong operating model to support the strategic plan and systems and controls to Marketing Director, Commercial Director and the Chief Technology Officer support the strategic plan.
Operations Committee Regulatory, Operational & Executive Credit Committee Asset and Conduct Risk Committee M & A Committee Liabilities Committee Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Oversee operational Monitors the Regulatory, Assists the Executive Review, assess and recommend To ensure the Treasury is management of the business Operational and Conduct Risk Committee in overseeing to the Risk Committee proposed operating effectively and assess and provide operational inputs within the Group, ensures there the bid activity associated changes to Lending Policy, the exposure of the Group to into larger projects.
are appropriate control with the inorganic growth Arrears and possession Policy movements in interest rates.
frameworks in place and agenda.
effective mitigants to ensure the Group remains within the Board Transactional Change Control Committee Pricing Committee approved Risk Appetite.
Credit Committee 1 Terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Governance, and Risk Committees are available on the Companys website.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 The Board is also responsible for ensuring The Board retains specific powers in The role and structure of the Board the Companys continuing commitment relation to the approval of the Banks The Board is responsible for the long term to carrying on its business fairly, honestly strategic aims and policies and other success of the Company and provides and openly, with a commitment to zero matters, which must be approved by it entrepreneurial leadership to the Group.
under legislation or the Companys The Board focuses on setting strategy Articles of Association.
These powers are and monitoring performance, and The Board operates in accordance with set out in the Boards written Terms of ensures that the necessary financial and the Companys Articles of Association Reference and Matters Reserved for the human resources are in place to enable and its own written terms of reference.
Board which were approved by the the Company to meet its objectives.
The Board has established a number of Board in July 2015.
A summary of the In addition, it ensures the appropriate Committees as indicated in the chart on matters reserved for decision by the financial and business systems and page 50.
Each Committee has its own Board is set out below: controls are in place to safeguard terms of reference which are reviewed shareholders interests and to maintain atleast annually.
Strategy and management Financial reporting and controls Corporate governance Overall strategy of the Group Approval of financial statements Review of the Groups overall Approval of long term objectives Approval of dividend policy governance structure Approval of annual operating and Approval of treasury policies Determining the independence CAPEX budgets Approval of significant changes in ofDirectors Review of performance against accounting policies strategy and objectives Ensuring maintenance of a sound Other system of internal control and risk The making of political donations Structure and capital management Approval of the overall levels of Changes to the Groups capital or insurance for the Group Remuneration corporate structure Changes to the Groups Determining the Remuneration Board members management and control structure Policy for the Directors, Company Changes to the structure, size and Secretary and other senior composition of the Board Risk management executives Appointment or removal of the Determining the remuneration of Overall risk appetite of the Group Chairman, CEO, SID and Company the Non-Executive Directors Approval of strategic risk Secretary Introduction of new share incentive management framework plans or major changes to existing plans The Board currently consists of the reviewed at the appropriate point in the are shown in the Audit Committee, Chairman, two Executive Directors, six regulatory and financial cycle.
During Remuneration Committee, Nomination independent Non-Executive Directors 2015 there were 14 Board meetings and Governance Committee and and three Non-Executive Directors who held.
The Board has established a Risk Committee Chairmens reports are not regarded as being independent.
number of Committees as shown on the on pages 58 to 68.
The table below The Board meets formally at least ten chart on page 50.
Each Committee has shows each Directors attendance at times a year, with ad hoc meetings its own terms of reference available the Board and Committee meetings called as and when circumstances on our website: www.
co. uk, they were eligible to attend in 2015: require.
There is an annual calendar of reviewed at least annually.
A summary agenda items to ensure that all matters of these, along with details of each are given due consideration and are Committees activities during 2015, Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Mike Fairey Chairman 13 14 4 4 1 Graham Allatt 13 14 4 4 9 10 2 Rod Duke 13 14 3 4 4 4 9 10 Andy Golding 14 14 3 Tim Hanford 11 14 4 Malcolm McCaig 14 14 4 4 4 5 5 Mary McNamara 13 14 5 5 1 1 10 10 Nathan Moss 14 14 5 5 4 4 6 Dr. David Morgan 13 14 4 4 7 April Talintyre 14 14 9 10 8 Stephan Wilcke 11 14 5 10 Eric Anstee appointed 21 December 2015 1 Unable to attend ad hoc Risk Committee due to scheduling clash.
2 Unable to attend Board, Audit and Risk Committee due to scheduling clashes.
3 Unable to attend Boards due to scheduling clashes.
4 Unable to attend Remuneration Committee due to scheduling clash.
5 Unable to attend Board due to scheduling clash.
6 Unable to attend Board due to scheduling clash.
7 Unable to attend Risk Committee due to IR Roadshow.
8 Unable to attend meetings due to scheduling clashes.
52 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance report continued At least once a year, the Board Chairman Mike Fairey is responsible Key Board activities during the undertakes a full strategic review setting the tone at the top and year included: of the business operations, usually ensuring that the Board has the Strategy over the course of a day.
right mix of skills, experience and Risk monitoring and review development so that it can focus on Governance and compliance All Directors are expected to attend the key issues affecting the business: External affairs and competitor all meetings of the Board and any and he is responsible for leading the analysis Committees of which they are Board and ensuring it acts effectively.
Talent review members, and to devote sufficient time Chief Executive Andy Golding has Annual and quarterly reporting to the Companys affairs to fulfil their overall responsibility for managing Customer brand product review duties as Directors.
Where Directors are the Group and implementing the Policy review and update unable to attend a meeting, they are strategies and policies agreed Investment proposals encouraged to submit any comments by the Board.
A summary of the on papers to be considered at the key areas of responsibility of the Role of the Chairman and Chairman and Chief Executive, and meeting to the Chairman in advance to Chief Executive how these have been discharged ensure that their views are recorded and The roles of Chairman and Chief during the year, are set out below: taken into account during the meeting.
Executive are held by different people.
There is a clear division of responsibilities, which has been agreed by the Board and is formalised in a schedule of responsibilities for each.
Chairmans Responsibilities Activities carried out in 2015 Chairing the Board and general meetings of the Company The Chairman chaired almost all of the Board meetings held in2015 and the 2015 AGM.
Setting Board agenda and ensuring that adequate time is The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, sets available for discussion of all agenda items the annual calendar of Board business and the agendas for the individual meetings.
A time is allocated for each item of business at meetings.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and The Board has received regular updates from its committees corporate governance throughout the Company and reviewed its corporate governance policies and procedures at its meeting in July.
Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, agrees information in advance of meetings the information to be circulated to the Board in advance of each meeting.
Promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating The Chairman runs the meetings in an open and constructive the effective contribution of all Non-Executive Directors way, encouraging the contribution from all Directors.
Hemet formally with the Non-Executive Directors without Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and management present in July so that any concerns could be Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive in particular expressed.
Informal meetings are held throughout the year.
Regularly considering succession planning and the The Chairman chairs the Nomination and Governance Committee.
composition of the Board Details of the Committees activities were explained in the Nomination and Governance Committee report on page 59.
Ensuring training and development needs of all Directors are The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, has met, and that all new Directors receive a full induction reviewed Directors Training requirements.
Details of Induction and Training held during the year are given on pages 54 to 55.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders The Chairman, with the Board, assisted by the CEO, FD and andstakeholders Investor Relations Manager, agrees a programme of Investor Relations meetings.
Details of those carried out during the year are shown on page 57.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Chief Executive Andy Goldings Zoe works closely with the Chairman, Effectiveness responsibilities are to ensure that Chief Executive and Chairmen of the Balance and independence the Company operates effectively Board Committees to ensure that Board The effectiveness of the Board and at strategic, operational and procedures including setting agendas its Committees in discharging their administrative levels.
He is responsible and the timely distribution of papers duties is essential for the success of for all Bank activities: provides are complied with, and that there are the Company.
In order to operate leadership and direction to encourage good communication flows between the effectively, the Board and its others to effect strategies agreed by Board and its Committees, and between Committees comprise of a balance of the Board: channels expertise, energy senior management and Non-Executive skills, experience, independence and and enthusiasm: builds individuals Directors.
The Company Secretary is knowledge to encourage constructive capabilities within the team: develops also available to all Directors to provide debate and challenge to the decision and encourages talent within the advice and support, including facilitating making process.
The size and business: identifies commercial induction programmes and training.
composition of the Companys Board is and business opportunities for the kept under review by the Nomination Executive Committees Company, building on strengths in and Governance Committee and the Chief Executive Andy Golding chairs the key areas: and is responsible for all Board to ensure an appropriate balance Banks Executive Committee ExCo, commercial activities of the Company, of skills and experience is represented.
whose members are the Chief Financial liaising with regulatory authorities Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, where appropriate.
He is responsible The Board comprises the Chairman Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel for the quality and financial wellbeing who was considered independent and Company Secretary, Commercial of the Bank, represents the Company on appointment, two Executive Director, Chief Technology Officer, to external organisations and builds Directors and nine Non-Executive Chief Credit Officer and Sales and awareness of the Company externally.
Six of the Non-Executive Marketing Director.
There are five other Directors are considered by the Board committees reporting to the Executive To assist Andy in carrying out to be independent.
Tim Hanford and Committee See the Governance these responsibilities, he has an Dr David Morgan are not considered to Structure Chart on page 50. experienced senior executive team be independent due to their position as comprising of specialists in finance, representatives of the Groups major The Purpose of the ExCo is to banking, risk, legal, and IT matters, shareholder.
Stephan Wilcke was, until assist the Chief Executive in the details of whom can be found on the April 2014, the Executive Chairman performance of his duties, including: OSB website at www.
of the Group and is therefore not the development and implementation considered to be independent in his of the strategic plan: Senior Independent Director current role as a Non-Executive Director.
the development and implementation Rod Duke is the Senior Independent Stephan will step down from the Board of a strong operating model that Director SID.
His role is to act as a with effect from the 2016 AGM.
supports the strategic plan: sounding board for the Chairman the development and implementation and to support him in the delivery of The Code recommends, in the case of systems and controls to support his objectives.
This includes ensuring of a FTSE 350 company, that at least the strategic plan: that the views of all other Directors half the Board of Directors excluding the monitoring of operating and are communicated to, and given the Chairman should comprise financial performance: due consideration by, the Chairman.
independent Non-Executive Directors, the assessment and control of risk: In addition, the SID is responsible being individuals determined by the the prioritisation and allocation for leading the annual appraisal of Board to be independent in character of resources: the Chairmans performance.
and judgement and free from the development of a high performing relationships or circumstances which senior management team: and The SID is also available to shareholders may affect, or could appear to affect, monitoring customer proposition should they wish to discuss concerns the relevant individuals judgement.
about the Company other than through the Chairman and CEO.
There The ExCos activities during the have been no meetings with the SID yearincluded: requested by shareholders during 2015. Business review.
Company Secretary Human Resources and Company Secretary Zoe Bucknell plays successionplanning.
a key role within the Company, not only Governance, control and risk assisting the Directors with their pursuit environment current and of profit and growth, but also acting forwardlooking.
with integrity and independence to System transformation.
protect the interests of the Company, Monitoring target operating its shareholders and employees, and modelprogress.
ensuring that the Company complies with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
54 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance report continued During the year the Company entered The Board is satisfied that its current to the Board for so long as it holds at the FTSE 350, and complies with composition allows it to operate least ten per cent of the Companys the recommendations of the Code effectively and that all Directors are ordinary shares and a further Nonapplicable to FTSE 350 companies.
able to bring specific insights and Executive Director for so long as it holds make valuable contributions to the at least 30 per cent of the Companys The composition of the Board, and Board due to their varied commercial ordinary shares.
Dr David Morgan and the balance of Independent Directors backgrounds.
The Non-Executive Tim Hanford are the Major Shareholder are indicated by the charts below: Directors, and in particular the appointed Non-Executive Directors.
Independent Non-Executive Directors, The Directors believe that the terms Chairman: Mike Fairey considered provide constructive challenge to of the Relationship Agreement enable Independent on appointment the executive management and the the Group to carry on its business Chairman ensures that the views of all independently of the Major Shareholder Not Independent Independent Directors are taken into consideration and ensure that all agreements and Andy Golding CEO Graham Allatt in the Boards deliberations.
transactions between the Group, on the one hand, and the Major April Talintyre CFO Rod Duke SID Non-Executive Directors are Shareholder and its associates and Stephan Wilcke Malcolm McCaig appointed for terms of three years or persons acting in concert with the which may be renewed, subject Major Shareholder or its associates, Tim Hanford Mary McNamara to the particular Director being on the other hand, are at arms length Dr David Morgan Nathan Moss re-elected by shareholders, for up and on a normal commercial basis.
to a normal maximum of three Eric Anstee terms nine years.
The continuing Conflicts of interest appointed The Companys Articles of Association independence of the Non-Executive 21 December 2015 set out the policy for dealing with Directors is reviewed annually.
Stephan Wilcke will retire from the Board at the Directors conflicts of interest and 2016 AGM.
are in line with the Companies Act Commitment 2006.
The Articles permit the Board The terms of appointment of the to authorise conflicts and potential Non-Executive Directors specify the Board composition conflicts, as long as the potentially amount of time they are expected to n Chairman conflicted Director is not counted in devote to the Companys business.
n Executive Directors the quorum and does not vote on the They are currently required to commit n Independent resolution to authorise the conflict.
to a minimum of five days per month, Non-Executive Directors which is calculated based on the time n Non-Executive Directors required to prepare for and attend Directors are required to complete an Board and Committee meetings, the annual return and an annual fitness AGM, meetings with shareholders and propriety questionnaire, which and training.
Their commitment also requires declarations of external Independence extends to working such additional interests and potential conflicts.
In hours as may be required in exceptional addition, all Directors are required to circumstances.
Non-Executive declare their interests in the business to 0% 50% 100% Directors are required to confirm be discussed at each Board meeting.
n Independent Non-Executive Directors 50% annually that they continue to have n Executive Directors 17% sufficient time to devote to the role.
The Board has also adopted an Ethics n Non-Executive Directors 33% Policy which includes a procedure for identifying potential conflicts of Relationship Agreement interest at all levels of the business.
Directors biographies can be On admission of its shares following Under this procedure, all potential found on pages 48 to 49. the IPO in June 2014, the Company conflicts of interest must be disclosed entered into a relationship agreement to the Company Secretary, who advises the Relationship Agreement with its on proportionate controls to address major shareholder OSB Holdco Limited the ethical conduct risks associated the Major Shareholder.
Pursuant to with them and who maintains and the Relationship Agreement, the Major reviews a Group wide register of Shareholder has been granted the right potential conflicts of interest.
to appoint one Non-Executive Director Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 The information supplied to the Board As approved persons, under the Training and development and its Committees is kept under approved persons regime operated The Chairman ensures that all review and formally assessed on an by the PRA and FCA under the FSMA, Directors receive a tailored induction annual basis as part of the Board all Directors have had to maintain on joining the Board, with the aim the competence and skills required to evaluation exercise to ensure it is fit of providing a new Director with the meet the demands of their positions and proper for purpose and that it information required to allow him of significant influence with the Bank.
or her to contribute to the running As part of the Annual Fitness and of the Company as soon as possible.
Propriety Questionnaire, Directors The Company has adopted a formal Theinduction programme is monitored are required to complete a selfprocedure through which Directors may by the Company Secretary to ensure certification that they have undertaken obtain independent professional advice that all information provided is fully sufficient training during the year to at the Companys expense.
The Directors understood by the new Director maintain their skills, knowledge and also have access to the services of the and that any queries are dealt with.
The Company Secretary Company Secretary as described above.
Typically, the induction programme supports the Directors to identify will include a combination of the relevant internal and external courses Performance evaluation provision of information in respect to ensure Directors are kept up-toThe Board will undertake an evaluation of the Company and face-to-face date with key regulatory changes, of its performance and that of its sessions as illustrated below.
their responsibilities as approved committees and individual directors persons and Company Directors annually, with a formal evaluation Typical induction programme and other matters impacting on the process being externally facilitated business, and due to the significant at least every three years.
The first Materials include: changes being introduced through the such externally facilitated evaluation Group and organisational Senior Managers Regime, arranged was carried out in 2015, facilitated by structure charts two separate sessions of training Prism Cosec, which provides statutory Details of Board Committees, for the Board by an external firm.
and regulatory compliance support including terms of reference and to the Company.
The main points copies of minutes Information and support arising from the evaluation were: Contact details for all Directors, The Company Secretary agrees with Greater focus on strategic input.
Company Secretary and key staff the Chairman an annual calendar of Training structured to meet the Current business plan matters to be discussed at each Board needs of the individual Board Articles of Association meeting to ensure that all key Board members.
Minutes of recent Board responsibilities are discharged over the Visibility of the succession planning meetings and dates of future year.
Board agendas are then circulated for the Board and the Executive.
meetings with accompanying detailed papers Guide for approved persons to the Board well in advance of each An action plan has been developed Current budget and last annual Board meeting.
These include reports to address the points raised and accounts from Executive Directors and other adjustments made to the Board Current ICAAP and ILAA members of senior management, and calendar to accommodate this.
all Directors have direct access to senior Meetings with: management should they require Chairman additional information on any of the Other Directors items to be discussed.
The Board and Company Secretary Audit Committee also receive further Executive team regular and specific reports to allow Senior management the monitoring of the adequacy of the Companys systems and controls.
Visits to: Head Office Agencies Branches Indian subsidiary sites ifappropriate 56 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance report continued for the approval of all externallythat a sound system of internal control Accountability published information including, should be designed to manage rather In line with the UK Corporate but not limited to, annual and than eliminate the risk of failure Governance Code provisions, the Board half-yearly financial statements, to achieve business objectives.
ensures that a fair, balanced and regulatory news announcements and understandable assessment of the publications required by regulators or The Board has carried out a robust Companys position and prospects is to satisfy statutory requirements.
assessment of the principal risks facing presented in all financial and business the business, including those that reporting.
The Board is responsible for The Company has established a would threaten its business model, determining the nature and extent of Disclosure and Communications future performance, solvency or the principal risks it is willing to take in Policy to assist the Board in ensuring liquidity.
Further details are contained achieving its strategic objectives and the quality of its reporting.
The Policy in the viability statement on page 42. maintains sound risk management and applies to all communications made internal control systems.
The Board has by and relating to the Group including The Board has established a Risk established formal and transparent written statements in periodic Committee to which it has delegated arrangements for considering how financial reports, news releases, letters responsibility for oversight of the Groups they should apply the corporate and circulars to shareholders and risk appetite, risk monitoring and capital reporting, risk management and speeches and presentations given by management.
The Risk Committee internal control principles and for Executive and senior management.
provides oversight and advice to the maintaining an appropriate relationship Board on current risk exposures and with the Companys auditors.
Review of effectiveness of future risk strategy, assists the Board financial controls in fostering a culture within the Group Financial and business reporting The Directors confirm that they have which emphasises and demonstrates The Board is committed to ensuring that reviewed the effectiveness of the the benefits of a risk-based approach all external financial reporting presents system of internal controls for the to internal control and management.
a fair, balanced and understandable year under review and to the date of Further details of the Groups risk assessment of the Groups position approval of the Annual Report and management approach, structure and and prospects.
The Board receives regular principal risks are set out in the risk in establishing this include whether reports from the Audit Committee management report on pages 29 to 41. there is a consistency between the on its activities, including the Audit front and back ends of the accounts: Committees review of reports prepared The Board has delegated to the Audit there is a balanced review of the competitive landscape: the language by Internal Audit on the operation and Committee responsibility for reviewing used is sufficiently simple: there is an efficacy of internal controls systems.
the effectiveness of the Companys appropriate analysis of risks facing the internal control systems.
The Audit business: and there is equal prominence Treasury operations Committee is supported by the Internal given to actual and overall profit.
The Board has approved a Board Audit function in discharging this Under the Schedule of Reserved Treasury Policy setting out the Groups responsibility, and receives regular Matters, the Board has responsibility approach to the management of risks reports from Internal Audit as to the from treasury operations.
Day-to-day overall effectiveness of the control responsibility for management of the system within the Group.
Details of Groups Treasury function is delegated the Groups review of the effectiveness to the Assets and Liabilities Committee of the Companys internal control which reports to the Risk Committee.
systems are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 64.
Risk management and internal control The Board retains ultimate responsibility Control environment for setting the Banks risk appetite and The Company is organised along ensuring that there is an effective risk the three lines of protection model management framework to maintain to ensure at least three stages of levels of risk within the risk appetite.
independent oversight to protect The Board regularly reviews its the customer and the Company procedures for identifying, evaluating from undue influence, conflict of and managing risk, acknowledging interest and poor controls.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 The Group is confident that the to analysts and investors.
In addition, The first line of protection is provided arrangements are effective, private shareholders are able to by the operational business lines which facilitate the proportionate and question the Company through the measure, assess and control risks independent investigation of reported Investor Relations function or the through the day-to-day activities of matters, and allow appropriate Company Secretarial function.
the business within the frameworks set follow up action to be taken.
by the second line of protection.
The Relationship with major shareholder second line of protection is provided by As explained earlier in the report, the Risk, Compliance and Governance Relations with shareholders on admission of its shares following functions which include the Board Dialogue with shareholders the IPO in June 2014, the Company and Executive Committee.
As noted Since the Company gained a wider entered into a relationship agreement above, the Board sets the Companys shareholder base following the IPO the Relationship Agreement with risk appetite and is ultimately in June 2014, it has established a its major shareholder OSB Holdco responsible for ensuring an effective dedicated Investor Relations function Limited the Major Shareholder.
risk management framework is in place.
to liaise with institutional investors and The Compliance Function maintains the analysts.
Investor Relations activity Annual General Meeting Key Controls Framework which tracks and a review of the share register The Companys second Annual and reports on key controls within the are regular items included in the General Meeting since listing will business to ensure compliance with monthly Board information pack.
take place on 11 May 2016 at The the main provisions of the FCA and Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, PRA handbooks.
Policy documents Over the year the Group has engaged London.
The Chairmen of each of the also include key controls that map in active discussion with shareholders Boards committees will be present back to the Key Controls Framework.
and investors, both on an individual to answer questions put to them by basis and through attendance at shareholders.
The Annual Report and The third line of protection is investor conferences and roadshow Accounts and notice of the Annual the Internal Audit function.
events, and held its first Annual General General Meeting will be sent to Meeting during the year.
There has shareholders at least 20 working days The Board is committed to consistent been ongoing dialogue with its key prior to the date of the meeting.
application of appropriate ethical stakeholders, including institutional standards, and the Ethics policy sets investors, to discuss issues relating to Shareholders are encouraged to out the basic principles to be followed the performance of the Group including participate in the AGM process, and all to ensure ethical considerations are strategy and new developments.
resolutions will be proposed and voted embedded in all business processes During 2015 more than 80 investors on at the meeting on an individual basis and decision making forums.
The Group and potential investors met with senior also maintains detailed policies and by shareholders or their proxies.
Voting OSB representatives face to face.
procedures in relation to the prevention results will be announced through the Following full year and interim results of bribery and corruption, and a Regulatory News Service and made presentations, senior management Whistleblowing Policy see below.
available on the Companys website undertake roadshows and meet with www.
A comprehensive plan of Whistleblowing Investor Relations activity is in place The Company has well established for the coming year.
The Non-Executive procedures by which employees Directors are available to discuss any may, in confidence, raise concerns matter stakeholders might wish to raise, relating to possible improprieties and the Chairman and Independent in matters of financial reporting, Non-Executive Directors attend financial control or any other matter.
meetings with investors and analysts.
The Whistleblowing Policy and procedure applies to all employees The Company has an investor of the Group.
The Audit Committee is website, which is publicly available responsible for monitoring the Groups and provides relevant information whistleblowing arrangements and to both institutional and private the policy is reviewed periodically shareholders, including performance by the Board.
The Chair of the Audit updates and the presentations made Committee has overall responsibility for Whistleblowing arrangements under the Senior Managers Regime.
