62 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee report Membership and meetings Dear Shareholder The Audit Committee currently comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
I am pleased to present the report of Number of meetings the Audit Committee for my first full Director attended year as Chairman, having assumed the role on 14 August 2014, following Chairman the Companys IPO in June 2014.
Graham Allatt until 1 January 2016 4 4 Eric Anstee joined and assumed Chairman role 1 January 2016 N A The Committee has continued to Current members spend a significant amount of time Rod Duke 3 4 in 2015 considering significant Malcolm McCaig 4 4 issues and areas of judgement as set out in the report below.
The Committee has also considered the additional requirements in financial experience.
The Nomination The Audit Committee is required to respect of external audit rotation, Committee recommended to the Board meet at least three times a year, with tender and non-audit services as a that Graham Allatt assume the role meetings scheduled at appropriate result of the Companys inclusion in of Chairman of the Risk Committee intervals in the reporting and audit the FTSE 350 from June of this year.
in 2016 and Eric Anstee, who has a cycle.
Additional meetings are held as wealth of recent and relevant financial required.
In 2015 there were a total of Further details on the activities of four meetings, reflecting the workload and accounting experience in the the Committee during the year and of the Committee during the year.
financial services assumes the role how it discharged its responsibilities of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
are provided in the report below.
Only members of the Committee have He is a qualified accountant with over the right to attend meetings, however 40 years experience, including senior I stepped down as Chairman of the standing invitations are extended positions at Ernst & Young and Old Audit Committee on 31 December to the Executive Directors, Chief Risk Mutual Plc.
Eric was the first Chief 2015 to become the Chairman of Officer and Head of Compliance, all of Executive of the Institute of Chartered the Companys Risk Committee.
Eric whom attend meetings as a matter Accountants in England and Wales and Anstee joined the Companys Board of practice.
Other non-members may is a current member of the Takeover on 21 December 2015 and assumed be invited to attend all or part of any Panel Appeals Board and a former the role of Chairman of the Audit meeting as and when appropriate.
The member of the Board of the Financial Committee.
Eric brings a wealth Company Secretary acts as secretary Reporting Council was appointed to the of recent and relevant financial to the Committee.
The internal and Board on 21 December 2015 and joined experience to the Committee.
I am external auditors attend all meetings the Audit Committee and assumed the pleased to remain on the Committee and also meet in private with the role of Chairman on 1 January 2016. to support Eric in his new role and Committee on each occasion.
In to ensure a smooth handover.
addition, the Chairman of the Audit Role of the Audit Committee Committee has regular contact with Graham Allatt The primary role of the Audit Committee the external and internal auditors Audit Committee Chairman is to assist the Board in overseeing throughout the year.
The Chairman as at 31 December 2015 the systems of internal control and meets with the Chief Financial Officer external financial reporting across in advance of each meeting to the Group.
The Committees specific agree the agenda and receives a full responsibilities are set out in its terms briefing on the key agenda items.
of reference, which were updated in December 2015.
These are available Membership of the Committee was on the Companys website and cover reviewed by the Nomination Committee external and Internal Audit, financial during the year.
Taken as a whole, the and narrative reporting, compliance, Committee has an appropriate balance whistleblowing and fraud and internal of skills including recent and relevant controls and risk management.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Audit Committee Key Responsibilities External Audit Internal Audit Financial and narrative Compliance, Internal controls and reporting whistleblowing and risk management Recommend the Approve appointment fraud appointment, or termination of the Monitor the integrity Monitor and review reappointment or head of Internal Audit of the financial Review the adequacy the adequacy and removal Internal Audit function statements and security of effectiveness of the Oversee the Monitor and review whistleblowing companys internal Review and report relationship, approve effectiveness arrangements financial controls and to the Board terms of engagement risk management on significant Review procedures for Review and approve and review systems financial issues and detecting fraud and the Internal Audit independence and judgements preventing bribery Review and approve charter objectivity the statements in Review and challenge Review and assess the Review regular the Annual Report Meet regularly without accounting policies, Internal Audit plan reports from the concerning internal management present methods used Money Laundering Ensure access to the controls and risk to account for Develop policy on the Reporting Officer and Board and Committee management significant or unusual supply of non-audit the adequacy and Chairmen transactions, clarity services effectiveness of antiReview managements and completeness of money laundering Ensure the audit responsiveness to disclosure systems and controls contract is tendered at findings Where requested Review the adequacy least every ten years by the Board, advise and effectiveness whether the annual of the compliance report is fair, balanced function and Conduct and understandable Risk Framework The Committee received and challenged reporting date on the approach taken.
Activity during 2015 reports from management prior to each Particular focus was given to loan books The principal activities undertaken reporting date, explaining the approach purchased at deep discounts, including bythe Committee during theyear taken to provisioning and the resulting sensitivity analysis on the impact of are described below.
changes in provision levels during the estimated future prepayment rates period.
The Committee requested and other assumptions on carrying Significant issues and areas of additional information by loan book value and the timing of the release judgement considered by the during the year including provision of discounts to profit and loss.
The Committee coverage ratios, assumed probability of Committee requested a comparison The following significant issues and default, loss given default and loanof actual cash flows to those assumed accounting judgements were considered to-value ratios for loans three months in the cash flow models by book to by the Committee in relation to the 2015 or more in arrears to help with their challenge managements assessment of Annual Report and financial statements.
assessment of the reasonableness of the need to update cash flow projections In its assessment, the Committee provisions.
In addition, the Committee and adjust carrying values accordingly.
considered and challenged reports from asked the Risk Committee to review Based on this work, the Committee is management prior to both the interim specific provisions for top 20 impaired satisfied that the approach taken and and full-year results, explaining each loans.
Two of the three current judgments made were reasonable.
area of judgement and managements members of the Committee are also recommended approach.
The Committee members of the Risk Committee Effective interest rate also received reports from the external and as such were privy to additional A number of assumptions are made auditor setting out its views on the detailed credit information on the when calculating the effective interest accounting treatment and judgements loan book throughout the year.
rate for newly-originated loan assets.
These include their expected lives, likely The Committee is satisfied that the redemption profiles and the anticipated Loan book impairments approach taken and judgements level of any early redemption charges.
Net Specific provision assessments for made were reasonable.
fee income is a significant element of the individually significant loans or portfolios effective interest rate of the Companys of loans involve significant judgement Loan book acquisition accounting and Buy-to-Let products and is recognised in in relation to estimating future cash income recognition profit and loss over the expected life of the flows, including the cost of obtaining and Acquired loan books are initially loans.
Judgement is required in assessing selling collateral, the likely sale proceeds recognised at cost.
Significant judgement the expected life of products with an and any rental income prior to sale.
is required in calculating their effective initial discounted or fixed period, which interest rate EIR, using cash flow then revert to the Companys standard All assets without a specific provision models which include assumptions on variable rate.
The Committee reviewed are assessed collectively.
Collective the likely macroeconomic environment, and challenged the assumptions used in provisions are calculated using 12-month including HPI, unemployment levels EIR calculations, in particular the period delinquency roll rates and one-year and interest rates, as well as loan level over which net fee income is spread, probability of defaults on different and portfolio attributes and history and also received sensitivity analysis for segments of the loan book.
These used to derive prepayment rates, the different product lives including a period rates, along with forced sale discounts probability and timing of defaults and on the Companys standard variable rate.
and the level of house prices, are the amount of incurred losses.
The Based on this work, the Committee is applied to calculate expected losses.
Committee reviewed and challenged satisfied that the approach taken and Judgement needs to be exercised in reports from management before each judgements made were reasonable.
deciding how to apply historic experience to current market conditions.
64 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit Committee report continued The Group intends to move to a coGabbertas, has been in place during this Fair, balanced and understandable sourced arrangement for Internal Audit time and 2015, therefore, represents The Committee considered on behalf in 2016. the sixth year that he has led the audit.
of the Board whether the 2015 Annual The Audit Committee confirms that the Report and financial statements Systems of internal control and risk Group is in compliance with the Statutory taken as a whole are fair, balanced management Audit Services for Large Companies and understandable, and whether The Audit Committee received regular Market Investigation mandatory use of the disclosures are appropriate.
The reports from the Internal Audit function competitive tender processes and Audit Committee reviewed the Groups during 2015, which included progress Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. procedures around the preparation, updates against the Internal Audit Plan, review and challenge of the Report the results of audits undertaken and KPMG generally requires the rotation and the consistency of the narrative any outstanding audit action points.
of the lead audit partner every five sections with the financial statements.
The Committee used these reports years for a listed client.
In light of the and the results of reviews carried out Banks IPO and the resulting degree of Following its review, the Committee by the Groups Compliance function change and demands facing the Group, is satisfied that the Annual Report is as the basis for its assessment of the the Committee requested to extend fair, balanced and understandable, effectiveness of the Groups system of Richards tenure for an additional year.
and provides the information internal controls and risk management.
KPMG considered this arrangement in line necessary for shareholders and The Committee also received a report on with its risk and independence policies other stakeholders to assess the the effectiveness of the Groups system and agreed, recognising the guidance Companys position and performance, of controls from the Chief Executive, published by the FRC in APB Ethical business model and strategy, and which was based on a self-certification Standard for Auditors ES 3 Revised has advised the Board accordingly.
process completed by senior managers Long Association with the Audit and executives in the Company.
Therefore, a new lead audit Internal Audit partner has been selected for the 2016 The Company continued to outsource The Committee also received a report audit.
The Code requires that FTSE 350 the Internal Audit function in 2015. from management on the results of an companies should put the external audit Grant Thornton LLP was appointed as internal review of loan book acquisition contract out to tender at least every ten Internal Auditor effective 1 January accounting and the governance years.
The Company was included in the 2014 after a robust tender process.
The and control procedures in place.
The Committee role of the Internal Audit function is to review identified the need to prioritise intends to next put the external audit determine whether the Groups network the completion of detailed process contract out to tender in not more than of risk management, control and documentation, including those at five years from the date of the report, to governance processes is adequate and functioning appropriately.
third-party servicers in early 2016. allow a reasonable period for the tender process, and sufficient time to benefit The Group has continued to develop its from the change in audit partner.
The terms of the Internal Audit functions appointment are set out in governance arrangements during the the Internal Audit Charter which was year, including the review and update The Committee has noted the adoption approved by the Audit Committee in of various policies and procedures during 2014 of new EU legislation March 2014.
The Committee approved to support internal control and risk relating to the statutory audit market, the annual Internal Audit plan, which management systems.
The Audit and will monitor the development identified areas of focus for the year.
Committee has been central to this of legislation in the UK to implement Outcomes of the work of Internal Audit process in particular, in the review and the new regime.
The new legislation are reported to the Audit Committee approval of a number of updated policies requires auditor rotation every 10 and the Groups management, with covering: anti-bribery and corruption, years, with member state discretion responsibility for any improvement or data retention, approved persons, to extend this to 20 years if there is a remedial action allocated appropriately.
fraud prevention and arrangements, public tender every 10 years.
Transitional The Internal Audit function carries out data protection and conduct risk.
follow up reviews to ensure that any control weaknesses are addressed.
External auditor Effectiveness The Committee is responsible for The Committee assesses the effectiveness The Committee also monitored the overseeing the Groups relationship of the external audit function on an relationship between the Internal Audit with its external auditor, KPMG annual basis.
The review was facilitated function and the Groups management LLP KPMG.
This includes the in 2015 through a survey completed throughout the year.
ongoing assessment of the auditors by members of the Committee, the independence and the effectiveness of Executive Directors, other Executives The Committee carries out an annual the external audit process, the results and other key staff who had significant review of the effectiveness of the Internal of which inform the Committees interaction with the external audit team Audit function.
This was facilitated in recommendation to the Board as to during the year.
The survey assessed December 2015 by a survey completed by the auditors appointment subject to the effectiveness of the lead partner Committee members, the Executive shareholder approval or otherwise.
and audit team, the audit approach Directors, other Executives and senior and execution, the role of management managers who had interacted with the Appointment and Tenure in the audit process, communication, Internal Audit function during the year.
KPMG was appointed as the first external reporting and support to the Committee Following the review the Committee was auditor of the Bank for the period ended as well as the independence and satisfied that the Internal Audit function 31 December 2011.
Prior to that date objectivity of the external auditor.
operated effectively during the year.
The it fulfilled the external audit function The assessment concluded that the review identified that it would be helpful for KRBS, whereby following a tender external audit process was effective to wider audiences if Internal Audit process it was first appointed for the with no material areas requiring reports included more detail on what was 31 December 2010 period-end.
The significant improvement, although the tested in addition to the exceptions found.
current lead audit partner, Richard Committee requested further discussion Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Committee, to provide certain non-audit Prohibited Services Permitted Services services in respect of the Companys IPO.
Book-keeping or other services related to the General accounting advice These included the preparation of reports accounting records or financial statements.
on the application of IFRS on the Companys financial position and and training support.
prospects, working capital and a report to the Companys sponsors regarding Financial information systems design Tax compliance and advice.
the Companys business and operations.
In approving the use of KPMG to provide Appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions Transaction related services, these services, the Committee took the  reports.
including acquisition due view that its knowledge of the Company diligence and tax and and its operations meant that it was accounting advice.
best-placed to provide the services, and Actuarial services.
Other audit-related services: was comfortable that its independence interim profit verification: half would not be compromised.
Under the new EU statutory audit Management functions or human resources.
Such other activities as may market legislation, certain non-audit be agreed by the Committee service prohibitions and fee caps are from time to time.
introduced and are expected to be Broker, dealer, investment adviser or investment effective from 17 June 2016.
prohibitions include tax advice and compliance and cap non-audit services Legal services and expert services unrelated to to 70% of the average of audit services theaudit.
paid in the preceding 3 years.
The cap Executive selection and recruitment.
is subject to transitional arrangements and is expected to apply to the Company Seconding employees to key management positions.
The prohibition Tax assignments where fees are contingent and on tax advice and compliance is material and or dependent on uncertain tax law subject to individual member state and audit judgement.
The new legislation has not yet been endorsed in the UK.
on principal risks and the risks to audit undertake the work and includes an The Committees assessment of the quality, particularly those specific assessment of the cost effectiveness and external auditors independence in to the Company.
Subsequently, the practicality of using an alternative firm.
2015 took into account the non-audit committee has also asked the external services provided during the year, auditor to carry out additional testing on The Committee pre-approved a number and confirmations given by KPMG model validation for acquired books.
of permitted services in 2015: interim as to its continued independence profit verifications, the half year review at various stages in the year.
Non-audit services and tax compliance for the Group.
The The engagement of the external auditor Committee also pre-approved other Training to provide non-audit services to the permitted non-audit services subject The Committee undertook a significant Group could impact the assessment of to an overall threshold of 70% of the amount of training during the year, its independence and objectivity.
The approved cost of 2015 Group annual audit including making extensive use of Group has therefore established a policy services and subject to any single item the Audit Committee Institute and governing the use of the external auditor above 100,000 being pre-agreed with training programmes run by the for non-audit services.
The policy specifies the Committee Chairman.
The Committee major accountancy firms.
In addition, prohibited and permitted services as reviews a schedule of year-to-date Committee members attended a detailed in the table above and sets the non-audit services at each meeting.
number of executive level committee framework within which permitted nonmeetings and met with key staff during audit services may be provided.
Prohibited The fees paid to the external auditor the year to increase their knowledge services comprise activities that are in respect of non-audit services during and understanding of the business.
generally perceived to involve the auditor 2015 totalled 171k, representing 44% making judgments or decisions that are of 2015 Group audit services of 390k Effectiveness the responsibility of management.
2014: 1,050k representing 313% of 2014 The Committee formally considers its Group audit services of 335k or 195k effectiveness annually.
The assessment The Group maintains active relationships and 58% excluding IPO related services was facilitated in December 2015 with several other large firms and any and are detailed in the table below.
using a survey completed by members decision to appoint the external auditor of the Committee, the Executive is taken in the context of whether their During 2014, the external auditor was Directors, and other executives and understanding of the Group places them engaged, with the approval of the Audit senior managers that had significant in a better position than other firms to interaction with the Committee during the year.
The review concluded that the 2015 2014 Nature of service 000 000 Committee was operating effectively and efficiently, but noted that the IPO related services 855 number and frequency of meetings Audit-related assurance services including half year might need to increase in 2016, given review and interim profit verifications 71 53 the growing volume of agenda items.
Tax compliance and advice 59 44 Regulatory advice and support 8 41 Other 33 57 Total non-audit services 171 1,050
