66 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk Committee report Membership and meetings Dear Shareholder Number of meetings I am pleased to present the Director attended report of the Risk Committee.
Chairman The Committee reviewed and Rod Duke 9 10 commented on various reports, Current members including the ICAAP, ILAA and Graham Allatt 9 10 RRP, before recommending the Mary McNamara 10 10 documents to the Board for April Talintyre 9 10 approval or noting.
The Committee Stephan Wilcke 5 10 spent an appropriate proportion of its time reviewing a number of inorganic transactions, as well as its other advisory and oversight responsibilities.
The Risk Committee meets at least six Role of the Committee times a year, with additional meetings Further information on the wide The Board has delegated to the scheduled as required depending range of the role and activities Committee the responsibility on the activity of the Group.
of the Committee is provided for oversight of the Groups risk in the following report.
appetite, risk monitoring and capital Only members of the Committee are management.
The Committees entitled to attend meetings, however Rod Duke primary objectives are therefore to the Chief Risk Officer CRO, Chief Risk Committee Chairman provide oversight and advice to the Executive Officer CEO and Chief Board on current risk exposures and Credit Officer CCO have standing future risk strategy, and to assist invitations to the Committee, unless the the Board to foster a culture within Chairman of the Committee informs the Group that emphasises and any that they should not attend a demonstrates the benefits of a riskparticular meeting or discussion.
based approach to internal control and management of the Group.
The Committees specific responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website, and are summarised opposite.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Risk Committee Key Responsibilities Risk appetite and assessment Risk monitoring and framework CRO and risk governance structure Advise the Board on overall risk appetite, Review credit risk, interest rate risk, Consider and approve the remit of the risk tolerance and strategy.
liquidity risk, legal and regulatory risks management function.
and operation risk exposures by reference Review risk assessment processes that Recommend to the Board the to risk appetite and capital adequacy.
inform the Boards decision making.
appointment and removal of the CRO.
Review the Groups capability to identify Review promptly all reports of the CRO.
Monitor actual and forecast risk and Review and monitor managements regulatory capital positions.
Advise the Board on proposed strategic responsiveness to the findings of the CRO.
transactions, including acquisitions Recommend changes to capital utilisation.
Receive reports from the Credit or disposals, ensuring risk aspects Review ILAA framework.
Committee, Assets & Liabilities and implications for risk appetite and Committee and Regulatory, Operational, Monitor actual and forecast liquidity tolerance are considered.
Review reports on material breaches of risk limits and the adequacy of proposed action.
Market risk and liquidity risk ICAAP Activity during 2015 Market risk and liquidity risk are The Committee reviewed and In 2015 the Group set out an continually monitored by the Assets commented on the proposed Internal updated strategic risk management and Liability Committee ALCO which Capital Adequacy Assessment Process framework, which represents the reports to the Risk Committee.
The ICAAP prior to its submission to the overarching framework established Committee reviewed ALCOs regular Board for approval.
This process engages to manage its risk profile in line with assessments of the UK macroeconomic the Board in the ongoing assessment its business strategy and objectives.
environment and potential impacts of risks and demonstrates how the The strategic risk management on the Groups assets and liquidity.
Group would manage its business and framework of the Group is set out capital during adverse macroeconomic in detail on pages 29 to 37.
The Committee also reviewed and and idiosyncratic stresses.
In particular, commented on updates to the Treasury the Committee provided feedback In order to discharge its duties and Policy, Interest Rate and Basis Risk on the Pillar 2A assessments, which responsibilities, the Committee receives Policy, Asset Encumbrance Policy and are intended to ensure that the reports from those responsible for the Funds Transfer Pricing Policy prior to Group possesses adequate capital specific areas of risk within that submission to the Board for approval.
to support the risks it faces.
The Groups compliance function reports on conduct risk and ILAA regulatory risk to the committee Operational risks The Committee reviewed and and the CRO on all other risks.
The Committee received reports on commented on the proposed Individual Examples of how the Committee operational risks at each of its meetings.
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process has discharged its responsibilities The reports cover risk incidents that ILAA prior to its submission to the during the year are as follows: have arisen to allow the Committee to Board for approval.
This process sets assess managements response and out the Groups approach to liquidity Credit risk remedial action proposed.
The reports and funding, including the assessment The Committee received and reviewed also cover key risk indicators KRI which and quantification of liquidity risk, regular detailed credit reports during can be quantitative or qualitative and how the Group intends to mitigate the year identifying large exposures, provide insights regarding changes in those risks, and how much current LTVs and arrears within various the Groups operational risk profile.
and future liquidity is required.
categories e. g. residential loans, Buy-to-Let, consumer lending.
The Although there were operational RRP reports also highlight early warning incidents during the course of 2015, The Committee reviewed and indicators, which allow the Committee the Committee was satisfied that commented on the proposed Recovery and the risk function to address the action taken was appropriate and Resolution Plan RRP prior to its potential credit issues before they and that the control of operational submission to the Board for approval.
develop into significant risk areas.
The recovery plan process is designed to ensure that in a time of stress the Group The Committee reviewed individual The Committee reviewed and has a credible recovery plan that can cases from the legacy problem loans commented on an updated operational be implemented in a timely manner.
population, making recommendations, risk management framework ORMF as where appropriate, to ensure the part of the review of the Groups overall In addition to the specific examples best outcomes are reached.
The strategic risk management framework.
given above, the Committee reviewed Committee also reviewed and The key components of the ORMF are various transaction proposals, assessing commented on updates to the the risk and control self assessment, the their potential impact on the risk Group Lending Policy and the Loan KRIs, loss data and scenario analysis.
It also approved Loss Provisioning Policy prior to their the Groups Pillar III disclosure and submission to the Board for approval.
various policies and policy updates.
