GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Report of the Directors.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide which is available at www.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC the Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Corporate Governance Code, provides better information to shareholders.
The FRC, the UKs independent regulator for corporate reporting and governance responsible for the Corporate Governance Code, has endorsed the AIC Code and the AIC Guide.
The terms of the FRCs endorsement mean that AIC members who report against the AIC Code and the AIC Guide meet fully their obligations under the Corporate Governance Code and the related disclosure requirements contained in the Listing Rules.
The Corporate Governance Code is available on the FRC website www.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
The Corporate Governance Code and AIC Code include provisions relating to: a. the role of the chief executive b. executive directors remuneration c. the need for an internal audit function d. the senior independent director e. Chairman's membership of the Audit Committee f. Chairmans position as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee g. issuing the notice of a general meeting at least 14 working days in advance of such meeting For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers provisions a to c above are not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
In relation to d to g above, further explanation regarding non-compliance is provided on page 21 in relation to the Senior Independent Director, pages 23 to 24 in relation to the Committee composition and page 24 regarding the provision of 14 working days notice.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board consists of three independent non-executive Directors.
Biographies of the Directors are shown on page 16 and demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience each brings to the Board.
Each Director has a signed letter of appointment to formalise the terms of their engagement as a Director and are appointed for an initial three year term, due to expire in 2017.
The appointment shall be renewed for a further period if both the respective Director and the Board believe that the renewal is in the interest of the Company, always taking into account the independence of the Director in question.
In view of the long term nature of the Companys investments, the Board believes that a stable Board composition is fundamental to run the Company properly.
The Board has not stipulated a maximum term of any directorship.
Copies of the letters of appointment are available on request from the Company Secretary and will be available at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
20 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE The Chairman and Senior Independent Director The Chairman, Stuart Cruickshank, is deemed by his fellow Board members to be independent and to have no conflicting relationships.
He considers himself to have sufficient time to commit to the Companys affairs.
The Directors have determined that the size of the Companys Board does not warrant the appointment of a Senior Independent Director at this time.
All of the Directors are available to address shareholder queries or engage in consultation as required.
THE OPERATION OF THE BOARD The Board of Directors meets at least six times a year and more often if required.
The table below sets out the Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year to 31 December 2015.
Audit Management Remuneration & Valuation Engagement & Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee S Cruickshank 11 5 2 4 M Cassidy 11 4 2 4 S King 11 5 2 4 A number of additional Board meetings were also held during the year, principally in relation to the C shares issues, C share conversion and tap issuance.
A Sub-Committee of the Board was established to approve the annual and the half yearly financial statements.
No individuals other than the Committee chairman and its members are entitled to be present at Committee meetings unless invited to attend by its members.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision to ensure effective control of strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the advice of Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited as Company Secretary.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken out Directors and Officers Liability Insurance to what is considered to be an appropriate limit of liability, such cover to be maintained for the full term of each Directorsappointment.
Save for such indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of Association and in the Directors letters of appointment, there are no qualifying third party indemnity provisions in force.
Independence of Directors In accordance with the AIC Code, the Board has reviewed the independent status of the individual Directors and the Board as a whole.
Each of the Directors is considered to be independent of the Investment Manager and free and from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement.
There are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
Care will be taken at all times to ensure that the Board is composed of members who, as a whole, have the required knowledge, abilities, and expert experience to properly fulfil their role and are sufficiently independent.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 21 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Board Evaluation The Directors are aware of the need to continually monitor and improve performance and recognise this can be achieved through regular Board evaluation, which provides a valuable feedback mechanism for improving Board effectiveness.
In addition to regular discussions in the course of Board meetings, a formal internal performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the Chairman was carried out during the year.
The 2015 evaluation involved a three-stage process.
In the first stage detailed questionnaires specifically designed to assess the strengths and independence of the Board and the Chairman, individual Directors and the performance of its Committees were circulated and completed.
In the second stage the Chairman met with each of the Directors, facilitated by the Company Secretary, at which their own and others responses to the questionnaire were explored to identify common themes and areas for improvement.
In the third stage, the results of the questionnaire and interviews were combined in a paper which was discussed at the Remuneration and Nominations Committee meeting in November 2015.
The results of the evaluation exercise demonstrated that the Board, its Committees and the Chairman were operating effectively and a number of specific actions were agreed, including an increased focus on the content and depth of risk reporting and those risks specific to the Companys sector and operations and the format and process for the on-going review of the Investment Managers fees and performance.
In line with Principle 7 of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, the Board will conduct an external evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, Directors, Committees and Investment Manager at least every three years.
The Board, or the Investment Manager upon request of the Board, shall offer induction training to new Directors about the Company, its key service providers, the Directors duties and obligations and other matters as may be relevant from time to time.
Election Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Articles of Association the Directors are required to retire at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, at each Annual General Meeting, each Director will retire and, if appropriate, seek re-election after each three years service, and annually after serving on the Board for more than nine years.
Beyond these requirements, the Board has agreed a policy whereby all Directors will seek annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meetings, in line with the recommendations of the UK Code for FTSE 350 companies.
In accordance with this policy, all the Directors will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers that, following performance evaluations conducted during 2015, all of the current Directors contribute effectively to the operation of the Board and the strategy of the Company.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders that each of the Directors is elected.
BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES AND RELATIONSHIP WITH THE INVESTMENT MANAGER The Board is responsible for the determination of the Companys investment policy and strategy and has overall responsibility for the Companys activities, including the review of investment activity and performance and the control and supervision of all suppliers of services to the Company including the Investment Manager.
The Board is also responsible for the Companys system of internal and financial controls and for ensuring that commercial risks and financing needs are properly considered and that the obligations of a public limited company are adhered to.
To assist the Board in the day-to-day operations of the Company, arrangements have been put in place to delegate authority for the performance of day-to-day operations of the Company to the Investment Manager and other third-party service providers.
The Board has appointed MW Eaglewood Europe LLP MW Eaglewood Europe or the Investment Manager to manage the Companys investment portfolio within guidelines set by the Board.
The Investment Manager is in frequent contact with the Board and supplies the Directors with regular updates on the Companys activities and detailed reports at each Board meeting.
22 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT AND CONTINUING APPOINTMENT The Companys investment manager is MW Eaglewood Europe LLP, as engaged under terms of an investment management agreement effective 14 May 2014 the Investment Management Agreement.
The Investment Manager is responsible for the discretionary management of the Companys portfolio of credit assets and other investments.
On 27 April 2015, MW Eaglewood Europe received its Part IV permission under FSMA for, inter alia, the regulated activity of managing an alternative investment fund.
On 1 May 2015, the Investment Management Agreement was novated to MW Eaglewood Europe and MW Eaglewood Europe was appointed as the Companys investment manager and Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The managing member of MW Eaglewood Europe is MW Eaglewood Management Limited which currently holds a majority stake in MW Eaglewood Europe.
MW Eaglewood Management Limited is part of the Marshall Wace Group.
The Investment Manager has, pursuant to a sub-management agreement, delegated certain of its responsibilities and functions to MW Eaglewood Americas LLC.
The name of the Investment Manager changed from Eaglewood Europe LLP to MW Eaglewood Europe LLP, effective as of 23 March 2016.
The Sub-Investment Manager, Eaglewood Capital Management LLC, also changed name to MW Eaglewood Americas LLC, effective as of 22 March 2016.
Details of the investment management fees are set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The Board keeps the performance of the Investment Manager under continual review.
During the year, an appraisal of the Investment Manager was conducted by the Management Engagement Committee who, as a result of the appraisal process, recommended to the Board that the appointment of the Investment Manager be continued.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the continuing appointment of the Investment Manager is in the interests of the shareholders as a whole.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Articles of Association provide that the Directors may authorise any actual or potential conflict of interest that a Director may have, with or without imposing any conditions that they consider appropriate on the Director.
Directors are not able to vote in respect of any contract, arrangement or transaction in which they have a material interest and in such circumstances they are not counted in the quorum.
A process has been developed to identify any of the Directors potential or actual conflicts of interest.
This includes declaring any potential new conflicts before the start of each Board meeting.
There were no actual or potential conflicts of interest which were required to be authorised by the Board during the period under review or to the date of this report.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its Audit and Valuation, Remuneration and Nominations, and Management Engagement Committees.
Given the size and nature of the Board it is felt appropriate and practical that all Directors are members of the Committees.
The Board has established formal terms of reference for each of the Committees which are available on the Company website, www.
com or from the Company Secretary upon request.
An outline of the remit of each of the Committees and their activities during the year are set out below.
Audit and Valuation Committee The Audit and Valuation Committee is chaired by Michael Cassidy and meets at least twice a year.
The Corporate Governance Code stipulates that, as a FTSE 250 company, the Chairman should not be a member of the Audit Committee.
However, given the size of the Board being only three members in total and his relevant financial experience, it is considered appropriate that Mr Cruickshank as the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit and Valuation Committee.
Further details on the work of the Audit and Valuation Committee are detailed in the Report of the Audit and Valuation Committee on pages 26 to 27.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Simon King and meets at least once a year or more often if required.
Its principal duties are to consider the terms of appointment of the Investment Manager and to annually review that appointment and the terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Committee will also consider and make recommendations to the Board on any matters linked to the remuneration of the Investment Manager and on any areas or matters of conflict with the Investment Manager.
The Committee met twice during the year to consider the third party service providers, their performance to date and the agreed fees.
All members were present at these meetings.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 23 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED A detailed review of the Investment Manager was undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee, led by Simon King as chairman of the Committee.
In reaching its recommendation to the Board about the continuing appointment of the Investment Manager, the Committees deliberations included a consideration of the management fee, management information and systems, investment performance and shareholder relations.
In light of the changing market, the Directors will conduct a detailed review of the Investment Managers fee structure against its peers in 2016.
See continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on page 23.
Remuneration and Nominations Committee The Company has established a Remuneration and Nominations Committee, chaired by Stuart Cruickshank.
The Company has not followed the recommendation of the AIC Code that the Chairman of the Board should not chair the Remuneration Committee.
It was considered that Stuart Cruickshank was most suited to the role of Chairman of the Committee due to the dual responsibility of the Committee in remuneration and nomination matters and his independence was not compromised as a result.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to determine the remuneration of each Director and to consider the skills, competence and independence of candidates in the context of the overall Board composition and to nominate candidates to the Board.
No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
New appointments will be identified against the requirements of the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board with the best range of skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
Appointments will be made on merit, taking into account the benefits of diversity, including gender.
However the Boards overriding priority is to appoint the most appropriate candidates, regardless of gender or other forms of diversity.
While the Board is mindful of the recommendations of the Davies Report as a FTSE 350 company, it has not currently set any measurable targets in relation to the diversity of the Board.
STEWARDSHIP RESPONSIBILITIES AND THE USE OF VOTING RIGHTS Pursuant to its Investment Policy, the Company may invest in aggregate up to 10 per cent.
of gross assets at the time of investment in the listed or unlisted securities issued by one or more Platforms.
The Investment Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The UK Stewardship Code the Code applies on a comply or explain basis.
Although the Investment Manager broadly supports the objectives of the Code, it has determined that it will not commit to the Codes principles because the investment strategies it employs do not generally involve listed equities.
In the event of a material change to any investment strategy such that the Codes principles become relevant, the Investment Manager will reconsider its commitment to the Code.
COMPANY SECRETARY The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The Notice of the AGM, which is sent out at least twenty working days in advance, sets out the business of the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
On 29 May 2015, the Company issued shareholders with a notice of a General Meeting to be held on 15 June 2015 and as such provided less than the required 14 working days notice under the Corporate Governance Code.
This was, however, to proceed with raising additional capital through the issue of C shares at the earliest opportunity and to ensure the General Meeting occurred on the same day as the Annual General Meeting and as such the Company would eliminate costs that would have been incurred in convening the meeting for a separate date.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to participate in proceedings.
The Chairman of the Board and the Directors, together with representatives of the Investment Manager, will be available to answer shareholders questions at the AGM.
Proxy voting figures are available to shareholders at the AGM.
The Investment Manager holds regular discussions with major shareholders, the feedback from which is provided to and greatly valued by the Board.
The Directors are available to enter into dialogue and correspondence with shareholders regarding the progress and performance of the Company.
The section of this report, entitled Shareholder Information, is intended to provide information which would be useful to shareholders.
General enquiries about the Company should be directed to the Company Secretary.
24 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE INTERNAL CONTROL REVIEW The Board is responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a robust system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys overall internal control arrangements and processes following recommendations from the Audit and Valuation Committee.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company and for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
The Company has established a risk register consisting of the key risks and controls in place to mitigate those risks.
The risk map provides a basis for the Audit and Valuation Committee and the Board to regularly monitor the effective operation of the controls and to update the register when new risks are identified.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Investment Managers system of internal control and risk management to ensure the safekeeping and accurate valuation on the Companys assets.
For the year under review, the Board has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the internal control systems.
Risk is inherent in the Companys activities but it is managed through a process of ongoing identification, measurement and monitoring, subject to risk limits and other controls.
The Company is exposed to market risk which includes currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk arising from the financial instruments held by the Company.
These risks are further disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
As the Company has no employees, the Company does not have a whistleblowing policy and procedure in place.
The Audit and Valuation Committee reviews the whistleblowing procedures of the Investment Manager to ensure that the concerns of their staff may be raised in a confidential manner.
The following are the key components which the Company has in place to provide effective internal control: n The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria and Platform restrictions, which specify levels of authority and exposure limits.
The Investment Manager regularly reports to the Board on compliance with these criteria.
n The Board has a procedure to ensure that the Company can continue to be approved as an investment company by complying with sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. n The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and management accounts, covering investment activities and financial matters, which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
n Contractual arrangements with the Investment Manager and other third party service providers are in place which specifically define their roles and responsibilities to the Company.
n The services and controls of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers are subject to review by the Management Engagement Committee on an ongoing basis.
Regular reports are provided to the Board by the Administrator and the Depositary.
n The Investment Managers finance and compliance departments continually review the Investment Managers operations and report to the Audit and Valuation Committee.
The system of internal control and risk management is designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
The Board recognises that these control systems can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
By order of the Board Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary 21 April 2016 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 25
