GOVERNANCE AUDIT AND VALUATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Audit and Valuation Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
MEMBERSHIP OF THE AUDIT AND VALUATION COMMITTEE All of the Directors are members of the Committee and have recent and relevant financial experience as a result of their involvement in financial services and other industries.
Representatives of the External Auditors,  LLP PwC also attend meetings of the Committee at least annually.
THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT AND VALUATION COMMITTEE The role of the Audit and Valuation Committee is as follows: n to review and monitor the Companys financial reporting processes and consider the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial control policies and procedures: n to monitor the integrity of the financial statements by reviewing and challenging where necessary the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and Administrator: n to review the effectiveness of the audit process: n to review and agree the audit plan with the Auditors: n to review and monitor the Auditors independence and objectivity: n to review the findings of the audit with the External Auditor: n to review and assess impairment rates: and n to recommend the valuations of the Companys investments to the Board.
MATTERS CONSIDERED IN THE YEAR The Audit and Valuation Committee met five times during the year under review and during those meetings it has: n reviewed the internal controls and risk management systems of the Company and its third party service providers: n considered the requirement for an internal audit function: n approved the audit plan with the Auditors, including the principal areas of focus and the Auditors fees: n approved updates to the valuation and impairment policies: n reviewed the Companys financial statements and advised the Board accordingly: n met with the External Auditor without the presence of the Investment Manager: n reviewed the Whistleblowing Policy of the Investment Manager: n reviewed compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code AIC Code: and n reviewed the Auditors appointment and independence.
A number of similar matters will be considered again during 2016 as set out in the pre-determined schedule of items for discussion during the year.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function and it has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Manager and the other third party providers in relation to the Company give sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
The requirement, however, will be re-visited on an annual basis in accordance with the Committees terms of reference.
AUDIT FEES AND NON-AUDIT SERVICES The breakdown of fees between audit services and non-audit services for the year ended 31 December 2015 are provided in Note 9 of the financial statements.
In relation to non-audit services the Committee has reviewed and implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditors to supply non-audit services.
It was agreed that all requests for services to be provided by the External Auditors should be submitted to the Chairman of the Committee in the first instance and will be reviewed in order to ensure that the scope and nature of the proposed work does not affect the Auditors independence or objectivity.
26 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL AUDIT The Companys External Auditors, PwC, were appointed following the IPO in 2014.
Under the Financial Reporting Councils transitional arrangements the Company is required to re-tender, at the latest, by 2024.
The Committee intends to re-tender within the timeframe set by the Financial Reporting Council.
Due to the short period of time since the Auditor was appointed, it is not considered appropriate to consider the auditors succession at this point in time.
The Committee monitors the Companys relationship with the Auditor and has discussed and considered their independence and objectivity.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC are independent considering the term of appointment to date and have been re-assured that no conflicts arose during the year and will continue to monitor this position.
The Committee recommends to the Board that, subject to shareholders approval at the 2016 AGM, PwC be re-appointed as the Auditor for the Company for the forthcoming year.
Following completion of the external audit, the Committee obtains feedback on the conduct of the audit.
The External Auditor is also invited to attend Committee meetings and also meets with the Committee and its Chairman without the presence of the Investment Manager.
The Company has complied throughout 2015 with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, issued by the Competition and Markets Authority.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the accounting and internal control systems of the Company, the Investment Manager and other service providers are appropriate and adequate.
The Committee receives regular reporting from the Investment Manager, Administrator and Depositary and is satisfied that the relevant legal and regulatory requirements have been met.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that compliance is under proper review and considers compliance reporting from the Investment Manager on an annual basis.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT AND VALUATION COMMITTEE After discussion with the Investment Manager and the External Auditors, the Committee determined that the key risks in relation to the Companys financial statements and how they were addressed were: n The valuation of the Investment Funds and unquoted investments the valuation is in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2 of the financial statements, audited financial statements have been received for the fund investments and the Committee has satisfied itself that the reported net asset values of the funds represent an appropriate fair value for the purposes of the Group's reporting.
Fair Value has been assessed across all unquoted equity positions: the Committee has determined that the Investment Manager has followed the agreed valuation policy and that the valuations for the unquoted equity investments are reasonable and supportable.
n The valuation of loans the valuation is in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2 of the financial statements, the depository has reported to the Committee on its work in verifying the existence of the loans.
The Investment Manager has confirmed that impairment models have been reviewed for appropriateness and accuracy and the Committee has satisfied itself with the reporting received from the Investment Manager in this regard.
n The risk of fraud in recognition of revenue and the risk of management override of controls mitigating factors were reviewed through the risk register and internal controls framework which is produced by the Investment Manager and reviewed and approved by the Committee on a regular basis.
The Committee has considered and challenged as appropriate the assessment of risks within these documents and obtained evidence about the effective operation of the internal controls in place, including through critically assessing reporting provided by the Investment Manager.
For and on behalf of the Audit and Valuation Committee Michael Cassidy Audit and Valuation Committee Chairman 21 April 2016 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 27
