B3.2 NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and all of the non-executive directors, ensuring that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is convened as required to nominate candidates for membership of the Board, although ultimate responsibility for appointment rests with the Board.
It considers whether the size and membership of each Board committee is appropriate and recommends to the Board which directors should be appointed to which committee.
It also proposes candidates for Board roles, such as committee chairmanships and the senior independent director position, for approval by the Board.
The Group recognises the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, at all levels of the organisation including the Board and the contribution which it can make to board effectiveness.
The Groups diversity policies are described in section A5.1 of the Annual Report, where information on the composition of the workforce is also given.
The Group recognises the importance of diversity on the Board, not only of gender, but also of experience and background, and the valuable contribution which such diversity can make towards achieving the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge which an effective board of directors requires.
Diversity quotas or targets are not considered appropriate by the Board.
The Board believes in appointing the best person to the role regardless of gender or other points of diversity and this belief is reflected and operates across all appointments made by the Group.
The Committee engages in the process of identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board of Directors when requested by the Board.
It has a formal process for the appointment of directors, which includes reviewing the board structure, size and composition.
This leads to the identification of the skills required and consequently to the selection of potential candidates.
The choice of appointee is based entirely on merit.
The Committee ensures that prospective non-executive directors can devote sufficient time to the appointment.
The Board recognises the benefits that can flow from non-executive directors holding other appointments but requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any commitments that might affect the time they can devote to the Company.
During the year Hugo Tudor was appointed to the Board and to all of its committees.
Mr Tudor had come to the attention of the Board as a potentially strong candidate, suitable for any vacant non-executive director appointment, who might not be available by the time such a position arose.
Having regard to the increasing demands on non-executive directors and the need for succession planning, the Committee was asked to consider whether it might be appropriate for the Board to appoint him as an additional non-executive director.
Neither an external search consultancy nor open advertising were used for this appointment as no specific vacancy was open at the time of recruitment.
The Committee considered Mr Tudors breadth of experience in the UK equities markets and his personal attributes and subsequently recommended his appointment to the Board and its main sub-Committees.
As part of the appointment process Mr Tudor met with the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Board members, and attended as an observer meetings of the Board and its committees.
Reference checking by the Company was also completed.
During the year Edward Tilly indicated to the Board that he was considering retiring as a director and therefore relinquishing the position of Senior Independent Director.
The Committee considered the requirements of the role and concluded that, on the basis of her experience of undertaking that role in another organisation, together with her knowledge of the Board and the Group, Fiona Clutterbuck was best suited to fill this post.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that she should be appointed and she succeeded Mr Tilly on his retirement on 1 July 2015.
After year end the Committee, together with the Risk and Compliance Committee, undertook a full review of succession planning for positions at board level and immediately below board level, together with certain senior specialist roles.
The Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee satisfied themselves that there were plans in place for immediate cover and will work with the Groups Director of Human Resources and other relevant employees over the forthcoming year to ensure that the identified area of risks arising from senior employees leaving the Group for other roles or on retirement are mitigated.
Risk mitigation will continue to include the ongoing development of employees so that, where possible, internal candidates are appointed to senior roles.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 71 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
