B2 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Directors of the company at the year end were: Robert G Dench Age 65 Nigel S Terrington Age 55 Chairman Chief Executive APPOINTED TO Non-executive director: 2004 Finance Director: 1990 THE BOARD Chairman: 2007 Chief Executive: 1995 COMMITTEE Chairman: Nomination Committee Member: Nomination Committee MEMBERSHIP Member: Remuneration Committee and Risk and Compliance Committee During an extended career with Barclays Nigel began his career in investment PREVIOUS he held a number of senior positions in banking, working for UBS.
He joined the BOARD AND the UK and overseas, leaving in 2004.
Group in 1987 as Treasurer, before being MANAGEMENT appointed as Finance Director and then EXPERIENCE Chief Executive.
He has been Chairman of the CML, Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association 'IMLA', Chairman of the 'FLA' Consumer Finance Division and a Board member of the FLA.
He is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Non-executive director of AXA UK PLC Member of HM Treasurys Home Finance CURRENT and Chairman of AXA Ireland Limited and Forum, the Bank of Englands Residential EXTERNAL other AXA Group companies.
Property Forum and the Chairmans APPOINTMENTS Executive Committees of the CML.
PAGE 60 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 KEY Non-Executive Executive Audit Nomination Risk and Compliance Remuneration Directors Directors Committee Committee Committee Richard J Woodman Age 50 John A Heron Age 56 Group Finance Managing Director Director Paragon Mortgages Director of Corporate Development: 2012 2003 Group Finance Director: 2014 None.
Richard joined the Group in 1989 John joined the Group in January 1986 and has held various senior strategic and is the Groups longest serving and financial roles, including Director employee.
He played a pivotal role in of Business Analysis and Planning and re-establishing the Groups mortgage Managing Director of Idem Capital.
He has lending operations in 1994 as Managing taken a lead role in the Groups strategic Director of Paragon Mortgages.
John is development and, in particular, in the loan responsible for the Group's first mortgage portfolio acquisition programme through business.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Idem Capital.
Richard is a member of Institute of Bankers.
the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Chairman of the CML buy-to-let panel and a board member of IMLA.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 61 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance B2 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alan K Fletcher Age 65 Peter J N Hartill Age 66 Non-executive Non-executive Director Director 2009 - Six years served 2011 - Four years served APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Chairman: Remuneration Committee Chairman: Audit Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Member: Audit Committee, Nomination Member: Nomination Committee, Committee and Risk and Compliance Remuneration Committee and Risk and Committee Compliance Committee Alan has considerable experience in financial Peter spent forty years with Deloitte, PREVIOUS services, including pension fund trusteeship becoming a senior audit partner and a BOARD AND and investment fund management.
He was business advisor with experience across a MANAGEMENT Chairman of Nevill James Holdings prior to wide range of industries and business issues.
EXPERIENCE its acquisition by Challenger International Specifically he has considerable experience of Australia, following which Alan was Sales in acquisitions and disposals, capital raising, and Marketing Director of Challenger Group risk control and corporate governance in the Services and a director of Challenger Life UK financial services sector.
Alan was Chairman of the professional training company, Fresh He is a Chartered Accountant and has Professional Development between 2003 been Chairman of the Audit Committee and 2010 and was a member of the General since 2011, meeting the requirement for an Synod of the Church of England between appropriately qualified person to fill that role.
Alan has also served as Director and Trustee of Paragon Pension Trustees Limited since 2010.
Trustee of the Church of England Pensions Chairman of Deeley Group Limited CURRENT Board since 2009, member of its Pensions and a non-executive director of Scott EXTERNAL Committee and Chairman of its Investment Bader Limited.
Chairman of the Diocese of Leicester Investment Committee and member of the Finance Committee of Leicester Cathedral.
Director of CEPB Mortgages Limited since February 2010.
PAGE 62 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 KEY Non-Executive Executive Audit Nomination Risk and Compliance Remuneration Directors Directors Committee Committee Committee Fiona J Clutterbuck Age 57 Hugo R Tudor Age 52 Non-executive Director and Non-executive Senior Independent Director Director 2012 - Three years served 2014 - One year served Chairman: Risk and Compliance Committee Member: Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Member: Audit Committee, Nomination Risk and Compliance Committee Committee and Remuneration Committee Fiona has many years of corporate finance Hugo spent 26 years in the fund experience at leading UK and international management industry originally with investment banks, specialising in financial Schroders and most recently with BlackRock, institutions.
During her career, Fiona has covering a wide range of UK equities.
He held the positions of Managing Director is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a and Head of Financial Institutions Advisory Chartered Accountant and brings an investor at ABN AMRO Investment Bank, Managing perspective to the Board.
Director and Global Co-Head of Financial Institutions Group at HSBC Investment Bank and was a Director at Hill Samuel Bank Limited.
Head of Strategy, Corporate Development Director of Damus Capital Limited.
and Communications at Phoenix Group.
Senior independent director of WS Atkins PLC.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 63 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance
