B3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B3.1 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy and for the delivery of that strategy within a strong corporate governance and corporate responsibility framework.
That framework is described in the following pages.
The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 and which is publicly available at www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2015 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
Leadership The Board of Directors is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving major agreements, transactions and other financing matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and the executive directors, determination and approval of the Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, investment decisions, corporate governance policies and financial and dividend policies.
During the year the Board of Directors consisted of the Chairman, three executive directors and four non-executive directors, except that between November 2014 and July 2015 there was an additional non-executive director.
All the directors bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of experience and further detail of this together with additional biographical details are set out in section B2.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including the Senior Independent Director, Edward Tilly until 1 July 2015 and Fiona Clutterbuck since that date.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the biographical details in section B2 and there have been no significant changes during the period to those commitments.
The Board has agreed a set of guiding principles on managing conflicts and a process to identify and authorise any conflicts which might arise, which was updated during year.
At each meeting of the Board actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any director are reviewed.
PAGE 64 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board also operates through a number of committees covering certain specific matters, illustrated in the chart below.
Board committees The Audit Committee, which during the year consisted of Peter Hartill who chairs the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Alan Fletcher, Edward Tilly, until his resignation on 1 July 2015 and Hugo Tudor, from his appointment on 24 November 2014, all of whom were independent non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times a year.
Further information on the work of the Audit Committee is given in section B4.
The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and all of the non-executive directors, ensuring that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
Further information on the work of the Nomination Committee is given in section B3.2.
The Remuneration Committee, which during the year consisted of Alan Fletcher who chairs the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Peter Hartill, Edward Tilly, until his resignation on 1 July 2015, and Hugo Tudor, from his appointment on 24 November 2014, all of whom were independent non-executive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
Further information on the work of the Remuneration Committee is given in section B5.
The Risk and Compliance Committee, which was established during the previous year and consisted of Fiona Clutterbuck who chairs the Committee, Peter Hartill, Alan Fletcher, Edward Tilly, until his resignation on 1 July 2015 and Hugo Tudor, from his appointment on 24 November 2014, all of whom were independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
The Committee meets at least four times a year.
Further information on the work of the Risk and Compliance Committee is given in section B6.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 65 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Executive committees Three executive committees, the Asset and Liability Committee, the Credit Committee and the Operational Risk and Compliance Committee, consisting of executive directors and appropriate senior employees, report to the Risk and Compliance Committee and are described further in the Risk Management section B6.
All board committees operate within defined terms of reference and sufficient resources are made available to them to undertake their duties.
The terms of reference of the board committees are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The attendance of individual directors at the regular meetings of the Board and its committees in the year is set out below, with the number of meetings each was eligible to attend shown in brackets.
Directors who are unable to attend meetings will receive the papers and any comments will be reported to the relevant meeting.
Directors have attended a number of ad hoc meetings during the year in addition to the regular Board meetings and have contributed to discussions outside of the regular meeting calendar.
Directors also attended a two day strategy event to enable further, more detailed, discussion of the Groups position and future development.
Risk and Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee Robert G Dench 9 9 - 3 4 4 4 2 2 Nigel S Terrington 9 9 - - - 2 2 Richard J Woodman 9 9 - - - - John A Heron 9 9 - - - - Edward A Tilly 6 7 1 2 3 3 1 2 1 2 Alan K Fletcher 9 9 3 3 4 4 4 4 2 2 Peter J N Hartill 9 9 3 3 4 4 4 4 2 2 Fiona J Clutterbuck 9 9 3 3 4 4 4 4 2 2 Hugo R Tudor 7 7 2 2 3 3 3 3 1 1 The Board regularly receives, reviews and considers reports on the following matters: Strategic matters Potential acquisition opportunities Business performance Results, management accounts and financial commentary Operational reports from business areas Treasury and funding matters Legal and governance matters The work of the Boards committees Matters arising from subsidiary company boards, including that of Paragon Bank Investor relations and shareholder feedback PAGE 66 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Effectiveness All of the non-executive directors are independent of management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
The non-executive directors meet with the Chairman, from time to time, without the presence of the executive directors.
All of the directors holding office at 30 September 2015 had been reappointed at the Annual General Meeting on 12 February 2015 and all of them have submitted themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing professional development opportunities as are identified as appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors are independent of the Group and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Alan Fletcher serves as a director of the corporate trustee of the Paragon Pension Plan the Plan and receives 10,000 per annum in respect of that appointment from Paragon Finance PLC, the sponsoring company of the Plan and a subsidiary of the Company.
The Board considers that this does not impact on his independence because the Plan is a trust which is independent of the Company and, as a director of its corporate trustee, Mr Fletcher has a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the trust and the Plans beneficiaries.
In determining that Hugo Tudor was independent, as defined by the Code, the Board considered his former role at BlackRock, where he was an active fund manager until 2013.
BlackRock has been one of the Companys major shareholders for a number of years and the Companys dealings with it were, and remain, on the same basis as those with any other major shareholder, being limited to communication and consultation in accordance with normal market practice.
This does not constitute a material business relationship, and hence does not impact on Mr Tudors independence.
The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and authority between executive and non-executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the skills and experience necessary to direct the Company and the Groups business activities.
The directors review actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any director at each meeting of the Board and its committees.
There is an established process for external appointments through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director appointments are based upon merit and business need.
Non-executive appointments are based upon the candidates profiles matching those agreed by the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
Succession planning for the Board has been reviewed and developed during the year under review and further detail is provided in the Nomination Committee section B3.2.
The Human Resources department has a wider succession development plan for senior management roles across the Group, to prioritise those roles which are likely to require recruitment within the next five years.
This data has been considered against internally identified individuals, with high potential and the capability to fulfil those roles as they become vacant, to ensure that succession requirements can be met.
Internal individuals will be developed for future senior roles and this will be complemented with external recruitment at a senior level where necessary, to balance the required skills and experience of the senior management team and ensure continuing success in the future.
The Board, individual directors and the Boards main committees are reviewed annually, with this years review being internally facilitated.
No issues arose that were required to be addressed but the Boards discussion of the reviews output will help to shape the future development of the Groups Risk and Compliance Committee as it becomes further embedded.
The most recent externally facilitated review was carried out during the year ended 30 September 2013, when the Board conducted a formal and rigorous performance review, which was facilitated by Socia Limited, who have no other connection with the Group.
The facilitators formal report stated that the review indicated that the Company met the requirements of the Code.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 67 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The non-executive directors meet to review the performance of the Chairman.
The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination of remuneration.
The Chairman appraises the performance of the non-executive directors, identifying any development opportunities or training needs.
All of the non-executive directors have received presentations during the year on various aspects of the Groups activities.
In addition training has been provided by the external auditors, Deloitte and other external advisers on topics such as the economy, governance, financial reporting and the regulatory environments in which the Group operates or is considering operating in.
Following his appointment to the Board, Hugo Tudor received a tailored induction during the year which included a strategic and financial overview as well as high level introductions to all divisions and functions of the Group.
This was followed up later in the year by detailed briefings into specific business areas.
Mr Tudor also met with external advisors and representatives of a major shareholder to help develop as wide a perspective as possible of the Group.
Ongoing development opportunities for all directors will be provided, as required, through the Boards training and development programme.
The Boards training programme will be enhanced and developed during the year to ensure that all development requirements, whether regulatory, such as those under the FCA approved person regime, or arising from the needs of the business, are met on an ongoing basis.
Training will take account of individuals skill sets and be designed to meet the needs of each director as well as the collective requirements of the Board and its committees.
At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any non-executive director, that, following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Accountability Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Strategic Report.
The Board uses this to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described in section B8.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2015 and to the date of these financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for this period and that these procedures accord with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the FRC.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group, including the system of internal control over financial reporting, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits from particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the Asset and Liability, Credit and Operational Risk and Compliance Committees and senior management.
PAGE 68 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control over financial reporting within the Group is provided by a process designed, under the supervision of the Group Finance Director and senior financial management of the Group, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes, including the process of preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures intended to ensure that records are maintained that fairly, and in reasonable detail, reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements, to ensure that receipts and expenditures are only being made in accordance with management authorisation and to provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may reduce.
The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management process, described in more detail in section B6, from which the key risks facing the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the Board, though its Risk and Compliance Committee on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Further details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors are set out in section B4.
The Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups risk management framework and the effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls.
Further details of the role and activities of the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Groups risk management system are set out in section B6.
There is some overlap between the work of the Audit Committee and that of the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Board monitors these areas to ensure that no gaps develop in the system of internal control.
Remuneration Information on how the Group has applied the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in section B5.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 69 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with shareholders The Board encourages communication with the Companys institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The Annual General Meeting is held in London during business hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities, to answer their questions and receive their views.
At all general meetings shareholders have an opportunity to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balances for, against and directed to be withheld in respect of each resolution are announced.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and investors comments are communicated to all members of the Board, enabling them to develop an understanding of the major shareholders views of the Group.
During the year ended 30 September 2015 meetings were held with investors from the UK, Europe and North America.
From time to time other presentations are made to institutional investors and analysts to enable them to gain a greater understanding of important aspects of the Groups business.
The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee hold annual meetings with leading shareholders to discuss remuneration policies and other corporate governance matters and the comments received are reported to the Board and considered by the Remuneration Committee in determining or varying the Groups approach to executive compensation.
During the year, Peter Hartill, Chairman of the Audit Committee, also met with a number of major shareholders as part of the audit tender process, to discuss the process initially and as it developed.
Hugo Tudor met with a major shareholder during the year as part of his induction process and all non-executive directors are available to meet with shareholders as requested.
The results of all of these meetings are reported to the Board so that all directors are aware of shareholder views.
The Senior Independent Director has informally met with major shareholders, is made aware of views expressed to other members of the Board and via the Companys brokers and is available to meet with shareholders should they wish.
Such meetings can be arranged via the Company Secretary.
The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides access to information on the Company and its businesses.
PAGE 70 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
