1 APPLICATION OF POLICY The information provided in this part of the Directors' Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Consideration by directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee consisted of Alan Fletcher who chaired the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Peter Hartill, Edward Tilly, until his retirement on 1 July 2015, and Hugo Tudor, from his appointment on 24 November 2014, all of whom were independent non-executive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
The Board introduced a conflicts policy in 2015 which takes into account the requirements of the UK Code on Corporate Governance in recognising and managing conflicts at remuneration committees.
None of the non-executive directors who sit on the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder or debt holder, conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chairman of the Company does not participate in discussions on his own remuneration.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on executive remuneration and specific compensation packages for each of the executive directors and the Chairman.
No director contributes to any discussion about his own remuneration.
The Committee also reviews the level and structure of remuneration of senior management.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted Mr N S Terrington Chief Executive and the Groups Director of Human Resources about its proposals.
Remuneration advisers The Committee retained the services of New Bridge Street NBS, a brand of Aon Hewitt Limited, as its independent advisor on remuneration matters throughout the year.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct.
NBS also advised the Company on various sundry remuneration matters during the year, which did not conflict with its advice to the Committee.
In evaluating the independence of NBS the Committee considered the following: other services provided to the Company and the fees paid by it to the advisors wider group, Aon Hewitt fees paid to NBS as a percentage of its wider groups total revenues in the year the policy of NBS to prevent conflicts of interest whether there were any relationships between NBS and any member of the Committee whether there were any shares in the Company owned by NBS or its wider group any business or personal relationships between NBS or its wider group and any senior executive of the Company Aon Hewitt provided administration services to the Corporate Trustee of the Groups retirement benefits plan during the year but given the independence of the Trustee this was not considered to be advice to the Board.
Aon Hewitt also acted as the administrators of the Groups stakeholder defined contribution pension plan during the year.
It provided no advice to the Board in this capacity.
NBS has written to the Committee Chairman to confirm its position on these matters.
Its total fees including VAT for the year ended 30 September 2015 were 59,000 2014: 73,000, which were charged on the basis of the work carried out by it.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 83 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During the year the Committee reviewed its remuneration advice requirements and decided to appoint Deloitte as its remuneration advisers with effect from the conclusion of the AGM in 2016.
At this point Deloitte will have vacated office as the Groups auditors.
Bank remuneration During the year the Committee reviewed and considered the potential impact of the European Banking Authoritys consultation on remuneration practices and will keep under review the outcomes of this consultation and any potential impact on the Company and Paragon Bank PLC.
Paragon Bank PLC has its own remuneration committee, reporting to the Banks board of directors, which considers remuneration policy across the Bank including the application of the Prudential Regulation Authoritys Remuneration Code Remuneration Code which governs the compensation of senior personnel in the banking sector, referred to as Remuneration Code Staff.
The Banks remuneration committee ensures that Paragon Bank complies with the Remuneration Code on an ongoing basis in respect of those employees.
The Committee reviews the work undertaken by the Banks remuneration committee through regular reports submitted to it.
However, the Remuneration Code states that in certain circumstances its requirements must also be applied at Group level.
The Committee has reviewed and discussed the requirements in this complex area and, after due consideration, has concluded that, at present, the Remuneration Code does not apply to employees outside Paragon Bank.
This conclusion will be kept under review to take account of developments both within the Group and in the regulatory approach to directors remuneration.
Application of remuneration policy for the year ending 30 September 2016 Salary The Chairmans fee and executive directors salaries are determined by the Committee immediately prior to the start of each financial year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers remuneration levels within the Group as a whole, individual and business performance during the year and in the past has also utilised periodic objective research which gives up-to-date information on comparable FTSE-250 companies.
The current Chairmans fee and the salaries of the executive directors with effect from 1 October 2015 are as follows: Position Director Fee salary with effect from 1 October 2015 1 October 2014 Chairman R G Dench 240,000 211,250 Chief Executive N S Terrington 462,700 452,500 Group Finance Director R J Woodman 291,400 285,000 Director - Mortgages J A Heron 246,700 241,250 In view of the progress made by the Group during the year, the Committee agreed that the salaries of Mr N S Terrington, Mr R J Woodman and Mr J A Heron would be increased by 2.25% from 1 October 2015.
This is in line with the level of increases for the Groups wider workforce.
Over recent years the Group has grown rapidly, expanding the range of products and services it offers as well as its customer reach.
These changes have delivered substantial, and sustained, financial growth and returns for its shareholders.
The resulting group, which now includes Paragon Bank, is now larger and more profitable but also operates in a more complex regulatory environment.
In this context the Committee reviewed the Chairmans annual fee.
PAGE 84 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This fee had not been comprehensively reviewed since 2008 with annual increases being applied within the 1.5% to 4.5% range since then, in line with executive directors and other employees.
Following this comprehensive benchmarked review, the Committee agreed an uplift of 13.6% with effect from 1 October 2015.
The decision to increase the Chairmans fee reflects the increased scope and complexity of the role and additional time commitment that he is required to dedicate to the Group.
The Committee feels that the revised fee is appropriate based on the contribution which the Chairman makes to the Group.
The non-executive directors fees have been benchmarked against the wider market during the year and it was agreed that the present levels were appropriate.
Consequently from 1 October 2015 the fees remain as follows: Base fee 50,000 2015: 50,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 20,000 2015: 20,000 Additional fee for chairmen of committees 20,000 2015: 20,000 The additional fee for chairmen of committees is currently payable to the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Risk and Compliance Committees, but would be payable for the chairmanship of such additional Committees as should be authorised by the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association include a limit on the total aggregate fees that can be paid to non-executive directors.
The present limit of 400,000 was approved by the shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
In addition to fees earned as a non-executive director, Mr A K Fletcher serves as a director of the Corporate Trustee of The Paragon Pension Plan the Plan and receives 10,000 per annum in respect of that appointment from Paragon Finance PLC, the sponsoring company of the Plan and a subsidiary of the Company.
The Plan is a trust which is independent of the Company and, as a director of its corporate trustee, Mr Fletcher has a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the trust and the Plans beneficiaries.
Pension contributions The executive directors are members of the Plan, which provides for a pension of 1 37.5 of basic annual salary to a maximum of 2 3 for every year of eligible service.
Directors may also have accrued entitlements under the plan in their early years of service at the rate of 1 60 of basic annual salary for every year of eligible service, the rate applicable to employees in general.
As described below the executive directors have each ceased pension accrual for future years service in return for a cash supplement calculated to equate to the cost of the Groups contributions towards future service benefits had each individual stayed within the Plan for his future service accrual.
The accrued entitlement of each director under the Plan is set out below.
The cash supplement is not a defined contribution pension scheme but a contractual entitlement and is cost neutral to the Group.
Dependants of executive directors who are members of the Plan are eligible for a dependants pension and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
There are no unfunded promises or similar arrangements for directors.
Benefits The Chairman and executives are entitled to family private medical health cover, life insurance cover of up to seven times their salary and a car allowance of up to 12,000 per annum.
Performance bonuses The purpose of the bonus is to provide a meaningful cash incentive focused on improving the performance of the Company through the achievement of a number of predetermined objectives.
The annual bonus is non-pensionable.
The bonus payable to executive directors under the bonus scheme is capped at 200% of salary.
A target level of 100% of salary is awarded for delivery of the base business plan and agreed objectives, with achievement of the planned profit level forming a major element.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 85 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For the year ending 30 September 2016, the annual bonus will be based on performance against the following performance measures: 1 operational profit, 2 future value of new business and 3 risk, each with equal weightings together with each directors performance against strategic and personal objectives, which will determine the level of a scale factor to be applied of between 0.5 and 1.5 times.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these are felt to be commercially sensitive.
Retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be set out in next years Annual Report on Remuneration except to the extent that any measure target remains commercially sensitive.
25% of amounts awarded in excess of 50,000 are deferred, to be payable in shares together with the aggregate amount of accrued dividend thereon, after three years, net of any clawback applied see below.
The Committee may require higher levels of deferment.
Clawback provisions apply to awards granted under the deferred bonus scheme.
The provisions give the Committee scope to reduce awards that have been granted, but have not vested if appropriate, to zero in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups accounts or if the number of shares granted was based on any other kind of error that resulted in more shares being awarded than there should have been.
The provisions also enable the Committee to claw back amounts that have vested under the plan, in the event of a material misstatement, miscalculation as a result of an error or in the event of misconduct.
Clawback can be implemented at any time prior to the second anniversary of the vesting date.
Share awards Executive directors are eligible for awards under the Paragon Performance Share Plan PSP and are entitled to participate in the Paragon UK Sharesave Plan 2009 Sharesave Plan, on the same terms as other employees.
The terms of the Sharesave Plan were reviewed during the year and amended to bring them in line with the Finance Act 2014.
Paragon Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP has an annual award limit to an individual of shares worth 200% of salary.
Awards over shares with a market value of 200% of salary will be granted to the current executive directors in the year ending 30 September 2016.
No awards will be made to former directors.
50% of awards are subject to the TSR test and 50% are subject to an EPS test.
In each case the testing period is the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
The TSR test compares the rank of the Companys TSR against a comparator group of companies comprising the constituents of the FTSE-250 Index.
25% of awards vest for median performance, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The FTSE-250 has been chosen because it is a broad-based index and because of the lack of comparable listed financial services organisations at the current time.
The Committee believes that TSR usefully aligns the long-term performance conditions with the best interests of the shareholders.
The EPS test provides that 25% of EPS tested awards will vest where EPS growth is equal to the increase in the retail price index plus a threshold percentage, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for EPS growth equal to the increase in the retail price index plus a higher threshold percentage or more.
In addition, prior to any awards vesting, the Committee must be satisfied that the requirements of a financial underpin test have been met.
For awards granted between February 2013 and December 2014 the lower threshold was 3% and the higher threshold 7%.
The lower and higher thresholds for awards to be granted in the financial year ending 30 September 2016 will be announced at the time of grant.
PAGE 86 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Vesting percentages for vested awards made under the PSP and its predecessor plans in the last ten years are summarised below.
Paragon Matching Share Plan MSP The Committee does not intend to grant any awards in the year ending 30 September 2016 under the MSP, which expires in February 2016.
As part of its review of the remuneration policy in the coming year the Committee will examine the appropriate structure and relative importance of share based compensation within the Groups executive remuneration packages.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 87 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
