B4 AUDIT COMMITTEE B4.1 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder The year ended 30 September 2015 has seen continuing change, both in the Groups businesses and in the regulatory environment in which it operates with the financial services industry as a whole being the subject of increased regulatory focus.
As a Committee our responsibility is to ensure that financial information published by the Group properly presents its activities to stakeholders in a changing landscape, as well as overseeing the effective delivery of both external and internal audit services.
This year has been the first following the setting up of the Risk and Compliance Committee and the transfer to it of responsibilities for compliance, allowing the Committee to focus on its other responsibilities.
During the year the Committee met three times and its principal activities were as follows: The review of the annual and half-yearly financial statements to ensure these properly present the Groups activities in accordance with accounting standards, law, regulations and market practice In particular the consideration of the Groups accounting policies for the recognition of interest income and loan impairment amongst other significant accounting issues The selection of KPMG as new external auditors for the Group from the year ending 30 September 2016, following a formal tender process The supervision of the internal audit function as it adapts to changes in the business and the wider implementation of the three lines of defence model Considering the Groups readiness to address forthcoming accounting changes which will affect it, principally IFRS 9 During the year, I consulted with major shareholders on the audit tender process, which is discussed in more detail in the report below.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2016 the Committees main priorities will include: supervising the transition of the external audit from Deloitte to KPMG the review of acquisition accounting on the Groups purchase of Five Arrows Leasing Group continued monitoring of the Groups IFRS 9 implementation programme ensuring that the Groups control processes develop alongside developments in the business I would like to take this opportunity to express the thanks of the Committee to the outgoing external auditors, Deloitte, and their predecessor firms, for the support and challenge provided to the Group over the thirty years since their appointment, as Touche Ross, on its foundation in 1985.
I commend this report to shareholders and ask you to support the resolutions concerning the appointment of KPMG as auditors and their remuneration at the Annual General Meeting in 2016.
Peter J N Hartill Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 November 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B4.2 OPERATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors of the Company and its terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The Committees responsibilities include: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting reviewing the Groups internal control systems monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function monitoring the relationship between the Group and the external auditor It also provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal audit functions report to the non-executive directors.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman, the executive directors, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and a partner and other representatives from the external auditor to attend meetings of the Committee, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
For part of each meeting the Committee will meet separately with representatives of the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without any other persons present.
At each meeting the Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, Compliance functions.
The Chairman of Paragon Banks audit committee and its finance director are invited to meetings of the Committee when matters relating to the Bank are to be discussed.
B4.3 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES ADDRESSED BY THE COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee considers whether the accounting policies adopted by the Group are suitable and whether significant estimates and judgements made by the management are appropriate.
In evaluating the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2015 the Committee considered particularly: the calculation of interest income under the Effective Interest Rate EIR method for both internally originated and purchased loan assets the levels of impairment provision against loan assets the valuation of the deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme the viability statement which the Group is required to make under the Code the Groups capital and funding position and the Group forecasts for future periods The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 73 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee also considered whether this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
In each of these areas the Committee was provided with papers discussing the position shown in the accounts, the underlying market conditions and assumptions and the methodology adopted for any calculations.
The papers also detailed any changes in approach from previous periods.
These were reviewed in detail and discussed with the relevant Group employees and the results of this work were considered, together with the results of testing by the external auditor.
There were no material or significant disagreements between the management and the external auditor.
Particular matters which the Committee focused on in each of these areas were Matter Particular areas of focus Income As required by IAS 39, the Group recognises income from loan balances on an EIR basis, recognition which is intended to produce a constant yield throughout the behavioural life of the loan, taking account of such things as costs of procuration, and initially fixed or discounted interest rates.
The calculation therefore rests on assumptions about the future behaviour of the Groups customers.
The Committee assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions made, considering performance of the portfolios against expectations and the impact of changes in product specifications.
Redemption profiles used in the modelling of mortgage books and the availability of alternative offerings in the market were areas of particular focus.
The Committee also paid particular attention to the accounting for new Idem portfolio purchases, which are generally made at a discount to the gross balance owed by customers on the accounts purchased, and where portfolio performance is a major driver of the EIR calculation.
Further information on these estimates can be found in note 5b to the accounts, and the interest income recognised on this basis is shown in note 10.
Impairment IAS 39 requires that companies provide for any financial assets, held at amortised cost, considered to be impaired at the balance sheet date, to the extent that the carrying value might not be recovered.
The Groups calculation of impairment provision relies on assumptions to determine when an account might require provision and how large that provision would need to be.
In order to satisfy itself that this calculation resulted in appropriate provisioning, the Committee considered actual out turns against historical impairment provision amounts calculated by the Groups models and the continued relevance of historical cash flow experience to the current loan book, based on present economic conditions and account administration practices.
This included an assessment of the impact of the Groups receiver of rent processes on cash flows and ultimate impairment levels, consideration of the likely effects of movements in property prices on security values and an examination of exposure on large portfolios.
Further information on these estimates can be found in note 5a to the accounts, the impairment charge for the year is shown in note 18 and movements in provision for impairment are shown in note 32.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is discussed in note 7.
PAGE 74 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matter Particular areas of focus Pension deficit The deficit on the Groups defined benefit pension plan is valued in accordance with IAS 19, which requires an actuarial valuation of the plan liabilities.
Such a valuation is based on assumptions concerning, inter alia, market interest rates, inflation and mortality rates in the Plan.
In order to satisfy itself as to the appropriateness of these assumptions, the Committee considered their derivation and the market data underlying them.
These were compared to market benchmarks and advice from the Plan actuary.
The Committee also considered benchmarking data provided by the external auditor.
Further information on the Plan deficit, the basis of valuation and the assumptions underlying it can be can be found in note 52 to the accounts, along with an analysis of sensitivities to the more significant assumptions.
Viability The Board are required by the Code and the Listing Rules to make a viability statement in the statement Annual Report.
The Committee have been asked to express an opinion to the Board as to whether this statement could properly be made.
The Committee considered aspects of the work of the Board and its various committees which addressed the Groups business model, risk profile, access to funds and future strategy, they also considered guidance issued by the FRC and stress testing which had been carried out in the year.
As this is a new area of disclosure the Committee considered particularly the advice of the external auditor and other advisers as to the form of the exercise and of the way it is described in the Annual Report.
A fuller discussion of the directors consideration of the viability statement in set out in section A4.
Capital and The Board are required by the Code and the Listing Rules to make a going concern statement funding in the Annual Report.
The Committee considered the Groups detailed forecasts, and the implicit cash and capital requirements.
The Committee discussed availability of funding, potential stress events and the impact of the economic environment.
A fuller discussion of the directors consideration of the going concern statement in set out in section A4.
Fair, balanced and The Board are required by the Code to state whether, in its view, the Annual Report is fair, understandable balanced and understandable.
The Committee considered the draft Annual Report for the financial year, as a whole, satisfying itself that the process for the preparation and review of its various sections, was appropriate.
The Committee especially focused on areas where disclosure requirements had changed or where new activities were to be reported on.
Based on this exercise, and the Committees own understanding of the business in the year, it determined whether the annual report, overall, portrayed the Groups activities, position and results properly.
The Committee was able to reach satisfactory conclusions on all of these areas and therefore resolved to commend the Annual Report to the Board for approval, and to advise the Board that it can conclude that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Earlier in the year the Committee had considered each of these areas, where applicable, in the same manner in concluding that it could commend the Groups half-yearly financial report for the six months ended 31 March 2015 to the Board for approval.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 75 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B4.4 EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of external auditors.
The Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Audit tendering On 24 September 2014 the Competition and Markets Authority finalised its investigation in to the audit market and published The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order.
The provisions of the Order are consistent with new requirements being introduced by European legislation.
The Order applies to the Group with effect from 1 October 2015 and requires that only the Committee can agree the fees and terms of service of the external auditors, initiate and supervise a tendering process or recommend the appointment of an external auditor to the Board following a tender process.
Deloitte and its predecessor firms have been the auditors of the Group since its foundation in 1985, although in recent times the lead audit partner has rotated every five years, with the current audit partner taking over following the completion of the audit for the year ended 30 September 2011.
Due to this length of service the Order requires that the Group replace Deloitte as external auditor at or before the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020.
The Committee, having considered the terms of the Order and the increasing frequency of audit tenders seen among comparable companies, concluded that the interests of good governance would be best served by putting the Group audit out to tender and this decision was communicated to shareholders in the Groups 2014 Annual Report.
During the year the Committee supervised the tender process, the structure of which was agreed by the Committee at the outset, and which is summarised below.
The Committee considered its priorities in making the appointment would be to select the firm which could best address the Groups business and regulatory environment, the Groups position as a FTSE 350 listed company and its geographical location, while providing a good fit with the organisations culture The Committee considered which firms should be invited to tender.
Audit firms outside the big four large firms which dominate the audit market were considered, but most of these were not considered to have the depth and breadth of resource to provide the required service and even the larger ones were not thought to be well placed to meet the criteria agreed The Committee considered the position of the incumbent auditor, Deloitte, and concluded that, despite being satisfied with the quality of the audit and the objectivity and independence of Deloitte, the short period which they would be able to serve, if re-appointed, together with emerging best practice meant that it would be inappropriate to reappoint them, and Deloitte were not invited to tender Formal invitations to tender were issued to Ernst and Young LLP, KPMG and  LLP.
All bidders were provided with detailed information about the business and given opportunities to meet the Groups financial and operational management, including representatives of the Committee Meetings took place with referees nominated by the bidders, at both management and Audit Committee level A panel nominated by the Committee evaluated written and verbal presentations by the bidders, making a recommendation to the Committee.
The panel included executive directors, financial management and non-executive directors of both the Group and Paragon Bank and was chaired by the Audit Committee chairman As a result of this process the Committee concluded that the Group would be best served by the appointment of KPMG as auditors and a resolution to this effect will be placed before the members for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2016.
If approved they will first report on the financial year ending 30 September 2016.
PAGE 76 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Before recommending the appointment of KPMG to the Board, the Committee engaged with them to ensure that they were able to provide the required quality of service and were independent of the Group.
More specifically the Committee considered whether KPMGs understanding of the Groups business, their access to appropriate financial services and regulatory specialists within their firm, both locally and nationally, and their understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates were appropriate to the Groups needs.
Other than the legal requirements of the Order, the Committee has not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of external auditor.
Audit effectiveness The Committee has considered the effectiveness of the external audit for the year ended 30 September 2015 and the Groups relationship with the external auditor, Deloitte, on an on-going basis, and has conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the annual audit before commending this Annual Report to the Board.
This review consisted of the following steps: A list of relevant questions was considered by senior management who submitted their responses in writing to the Committee in advance of the meeting convened to consider the Annual Report The Committee members, with reference to the same questions considered their experience of the audit process in advance of that meeting At the meeting the Committee discussed the results of the exercise with the senior financial management of the Group, without the external auditor present The Committee then addressed the evaluation, as appropriate, with the external auditors The Committee was able to conclude, on the basis of this exercise and its experience over the year that the external audit process remained effective and that the auditor was independent and objective.
A further review will be carried out following the completion of audit procedures on all Group companies and reported on in next years annual report.
The effectiveness review undertaken at the time of approval of the 2014 Group accounts was updated once the external audit process for all Group companies had been completed and affirmed the original conclusion that the external audit was independent and objective and that the audit process was effective for that financial year.
Independence policy Both the Committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid any compromise of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee considers the independence of the external auditor annually and the Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy precludes the appointment of the external auditor to provide any service where there is involvement in management functions or decision making, or any service on which management may place primary reliance in determining the adequacy of internal controls, financial systems or financial reporting.
The external auditor may provide corporate finance and similar services provided there is no significant advocacy role or tax services but, if the advice given or the position taken would be material to the Group, the prior consent of the Committee would be required.
Internal audit services will not be provided by the external auditor.
Other services may be procured by management without the prior consent of the Committee, but are reported to the Committee on an ongoing basis.
Following the audit tender process, and in the light of changes in legislation addressing services which can be provided by the external auditor, which are expected to come into force with effect from the Groups year ending 30 September 2020, this policy and its implementation will be reviewed in the new financial year.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 77 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Fees paid to external auditors Fees paid to the external auditor are shown in note 17 to the Accounts.
Other than services required to be provided by external auditors by legislation or regulation, non-audit services relate to taxation, securitisation reporting, corporate finance activity and accounting advisory work in respect of the Groups preparation for the introduction of IFRS 9 shown as other services in note 17.
In respect of taxation services the Committee has considered the services provided and concluded that the understanding of the Group and the industry demonstrated by the advisers make them well placed to meet the Groups needs.
In respect of the securitisation reporting services, the external auditors firm was selected to provide these services as they were considered to offer the most appropriate skills and experience for the projects concerned in a cost-effective manner, given their existing knowledge of the Groups systems.
Overall the fees paid to the external auditor for non-audit services excluding VAT, were 486,000 2014: 1,158,000, which is equivalent to 44.4% of the total fees paid to them.
The Group actively considers other providers for the type of non-audit services provided by the external auditors firm and has engaged with other audit firms in the period.
When considering discrete projects, such as transaction support or specialist internal audit assistance in the year, the Group engaged with a number of firms, including some outside the big four, assessing each firms appropriateness for the particular assignment before an appointment was made.
Fees paid to audit firms, excluding the Group audit and related fees can be analysed as shown below: 2015 2014 000 000 Auditors 486 1,158 Other big four firms 89 42 Other firms 18 - 593 1,200 It should be noted that the Group instructed a non-big four firm in connection with the acquisition of Five Arrows Leasing Group, which completed after the year end.
The audit tender process described above has helped to further relationships with all of the big four firms, not simply the incoming auditors, and it is felt that this will enhance the Groups ability to access other services from these organisations in the future.
B4.5 INTERNAL AUDIT The Committee is responsible for considering and approving the remit of the internal audit function and ensuring it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to enable it to perform its function effectively and in accordance with the relevant professional standards.
The Committee also ensures that the internal audit function has adequate standing and is free from management or other restrictions which may impair its independence.
An external quality assessment of the Internal Audit function, as it related to Paragon Bank, commenced in December 2014.
The assessment was undertaken by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors and concluded that there was very clear commitment from the Executive teams and the Audit Committees, of both the Bank and the Group, to establish a strong and appropriately qualified and experienced internal audit team: and plans were clearly in place to strengthen the Internal Audit framework which would enable appropriate conformance with the Standards and the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors Financial Services Code.
The Internal Audit team was considered to be well placed and had the requisite skills, experience and resources to deliver the 2014-15 audit plan.
PAGE 78 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During the year the Committee has considered and approved the Group internal audit plan, which is based on an assessment of the key risks faced by the Group.
It has monitored progress of the internal audit function against that plan, ensuring that the internal audit function has sufficient resource to carry out its duties effectively.
Two internal audit reviews on the 2014-15 audit plan were co-sourced with third party accounting firms.
These addressed specialist areas within Paragon Bank where the internal team lacked experience.
The co-source also provided the opportunity to benchmark and measure the Banks relative maturity in the areas under review.
Reports on internal audit work have been received by the Committee and, where necessary, appropriate actions have been recommended to the Board.
The Committee meets with the Groups Head of Internal Audit without the presence of management on a regular basis.
The results of this work, together with the Committees engagement with the management information of the Group and the executive directors, have enabled them to conclude that the statements given in section B3 relating to the Groups systems of internal control and its management of risk are appropriate.
Following the acquisition of Five Arrows Leasing Group after the year end, a review of the Internal Audit departmental structure has taken place and a decision taken to enhance financial audit, and recruitment of a suitably qualified and experienced Financial Audit Manager has begun.
There will also be a need for asset finance expertise within the team, and, if this cannot be achieved through recruitment, for the initial Five Arrows Leasing Group reviews a co-source internal audit arrangement with a third party firm will be considered.
The Committee wishes to congratulate the Internal Audit team on being named as winner of the outstanding team award at the 2015 Audit and Risk Awards organised by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
B4.6 WHISTLEBLOWING There is an established procedure whereby employees can make disclosures regarding malpractice within the Group on a confidential basis, in accordance with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 PIDA.
The policy also makes provision to ensure that no employee making such a disclosure suffers any detriment by doing so.
This process is supervised by the Committee and any amendments to the policy require the approval of the Chairman of the Committee.
There is a right of appeal to the Chairman where the employee is dissatisfied with the outcome and his decision is final in all cases.
To ensure that the policy is embedded in the operations of the Group all employees received training on the requirements of PIDA and the Groups policy during the year and were tested to ensure their understanding.
During the year ended 30 September 2015 no reports were made through the Groups whistleblowing process which necessitated action being taken.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 79 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
