B5.3 POLICY REPORT The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the directors remuneration policy that has applied since the Annual General Meeting held on 6 February 2014.
The policy will apply until the Annual General Meeting in 2017, unless revised by a vote of shareholders ahead of that time.
In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, the Committee takes into account: the need to attract, retain and motivate high quality executive directors to fulfil the Companys strategy the maintenance of a clear link between rewards and company performance the objective of achieving an appropriate mix of fixed and variable pay the views of our investors and shareholder bodies the requirement to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code the need to encourage management to adopt a level of risk which is in line with the risk appetite of the business as approved by the Board the need to ensure a long-term focus through the deferral of part of the annual bonus and the requirement for executive directors to maintain a significant level of investment in the Companys shares pay and benefit practice within the Group and within the sector periodic peer group comparisons Contractual commitments already made to directors will continue to be honoured as part of this policy.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and executive directors The Companys policy is to ensure that the executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual performance, having regard to the importance of retention and motivation.
The performance measurement of the executive directors and the determination of their annual remuneration packages are undertaken by the Committee.
The Committee also sets the salary for the Chairman, taking account of his performance and time commitment in the role.
In forming and reviewing remuneration policy the Committee has given full consideration to the Code and has complied with its provisions relating to directors remuneration throughout the year.
Moreover, the Committee has given due regard to the link between remuneration and strategy, seeking to ensure that the remuneration structures in place do not encourage excessive risk or activities that are not in line with the agreed strategy.
The remuneration packages of the individual directors are assessed after a review of their individual performances and an assessment of comparable positions in the financial sector and within a group of pan-sectoral comparators comprising a number of FTSE-250 companies with market capitalisations similar to the Groups.
The Committee pays due regard to the levels of remuneration within the Group when determining the remuneration of executive directors and other senior employees.
It also seeks to ensure that the incentive structure for directors and senior management does not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 103 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors The executive directors receive a combination of fixed and performance-related elements of remuneration.
Fixed remuneration consists of salary, benefits in kind and pension scheme contributions see under Pension contributions below.
Performance-related remuneration consists of participation in the annual bonus plan, the award of shares under the PSP and invitations to participate in the award of shares under the MSP from time to time.
The performance-related elements of remuneration are intended to provide a significant proportion of executive directors potential total remuneration.
Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy condition Base salary To provide a Remunerate fairly for individual Salaries for the year ending None.
competitive, fixed performance, having regard to the 30 September 2016 are set cash component importance of motivation.
out in the Annual Report on that reflects the Take into account remuneration Remuneration.
scope of individual levels in the Group as a responsibilities whole, individual and business Increases, if the Committee is and recognises performance and objective satisfied with the individual's sustained individual research into comparable performance will normally broadly performance in companies.
follow those awarded for the rest of the role.
Changes in the scope or responsibilities of a directors role may require an adjustment to salary above the normal level of increase.
Benefits To provide market Private health cover for the Private health care benefits are None.
levels of benefits on executive and their family, life provided through third party a cost-effective basis.
insurance cover of up to seven providers and therefore the cost to times salary and company car or the company and the value to the cash alternative.
director may vary from year to year.
Other benefits may be offered The maximum car allowance is from time to time broadly in line 12,000 per annum.
It is intended the maximum value of benefits offered will remain broadly in line with market practice.
Pension To provide 1 37.5 of basic annual salary for Maximum pension 2 3 of salary None.
competitive each year of eligible service.
at retirement or the value of the post-retirement annual cash alternative calculated benefits.
A cash alternative is offered in lieu by the Companys actuary.
of pension accrual, equating to the approximate cost to the Company of defined benefit provision, normally reviewed every five years.
For new external appointments a cash allowance or company pension contribution set at a rate lower than that for existing directors may be awarded.
PAGE 104 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy condition Annual bonus To incentivise Each executive directors Maximum bonus potential is 200% The performance targets executives to annual bonus is based on a of salary.
are set by the Committee achieve specific, challenging mix of financial, at the start of the year with predetermined goals strategic and risk-related For target performance a bonus of input, as appropriate, from that drive delivery performance measures.
100% of salary will be awarded, with the Chairman and Chief of the Companys additional amounts being awarded Executive.
operational 25% of amounts awarded in excess for exceptional performance.
objectives over a of 50,000 are deferred, to be If a bonus is awarded the minimum The bonus is calculated one-year period.
satisfied in shares together with that could be paid is 8.25% as follows: the aggregate amount of accrued of salary.
To reward individual dividend thereon, for three years.
Higher levels of deferment may be For performance below threshold, range of measures, with required by the Committee.
the majority relating to To encourage financial metrics and the retention and The deferral is operated under remainder reflecting alignment with the Deferred Bonus Plan risk-related measures shareholders which contains a clawback and interests through a malus mechanism applicable Each element is then three-year deferral to all participants in the event subject to a scale factor of a proportion of of misconduct or a material that can reduce or bonus, awarded misstatement of the increase the bonus in shares.
subject to the overall cap of 200% of salary The annual bonus is according to performance non-pensionable.
against personal and strategic objectives relating to the three elements This determines the percentage pay out of the annual bonus, which is capped at the maximum opportunity of 200% of salary.
Details of the performance targets set for the year under review and performance against them are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 105 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy condition Performance Share Plan PSP To incentivise An annual award of shares Maximum award is 200% of salary Granted subject to a executives to achieve subject to continued service and in any year.
combination of challenging enhanced returns for performance conditions over a financial eg adjusted EPS shareholders.
and relative TSR targets, tested over three years.
To encourage The performance conditions used long-term retention are reviewed on an annual basis to 25% of the awards will vest of key executives.
for threshold performance, with full vesting taking place To align the interests Awards are structured as nil cost for equalling or exceeding of executives and options with a ten year life.
Executives are entitled to any dividends which accrue over the The Committee retains period on vested awards.
the ability to amend the performance conditions for future grants to ensure that such grants achieve the stated purpose.
Matching Share Plan MSP To provide additional Key executives invited, from time Normal maximum permissible Granted subject to a incentive for to time, to invest the after tax award is 50% of salary after tax.
combination of challenging executives to achieve equivalent of up to 25% of salary financial eg adjusted EPS enhanced returns 50% in exceptional circumstances.
Exceptional maximum permissible and relative TSR targets, for shareholders.
award is 100% of salary after tax.
At the end of a three year To encourage performance period and subject 25% of the awards will long-term retention to the shares being held and the vest for threshold of key executives.
satisfaction of performance criteria performance, with full determined by the Committee, vesting taking place for To encourage participants receive a match for equalling or exceeding key executives shares on a two for one basis.
the maximum to hold personal performance target.
investment in the Awards are structured as nil cost Companys shares.
options with a ten year life.
The MSP expires in February 2016 and the last grant made under this plan was in 2010.
PAGE 106 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy condition Sharesave plan To provide all Periodic invitations are made HMRC monthly savings limits apply.
employees with to participate in the Companys the opportunity Sharesave Plan.
to become shareholders on A savings contract over three or similar terms.
five years with the funds used on maturity either to purchase shares by exercising options or returned to the participant.
The option is granted at a discount to the share price at the time of grant of up to 20%.
The Plan provides tax benefits in the UK subject to satisfying certain HMRC requirements and is operated on an all employee basis.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 107 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key aspects of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors The Chairman receives a salary, a company car or cash alternative and is eligible for private health cover for himself and his family in the same way as the executive directors.
Non-executive directors are remunerated solely by fees.
Neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors are eligible to participate in any of the Companys incentive or pension schemes and they are not entitled to receive compensation for early termination of their terms of engagement.
Benefits may also be provided to non-executive directors related to the performance of their duties eg travel and hospitality.
Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy condition Salary and fees To ensure that Non-executive director fees are Salaries and fees for the year None.
the Group can reviewed on a periodic basis ending 30 September 2016 are attract and retain and are subject to the Articles of set out in the Annual Report on the appropriate Association.
number and mix is set annually by the Committee, of non-executive whilst the non-executive directors Increases above those awarded for directors with the fees are determined by the Board.
the rest of the organisation may be correct experience made to reflect the periodic nature to provide balance, The Board will exercise judgement of any review.
oversight and in determining the extent to which challenge.
non-executive directors fees are Changes in the scope, altered in line with market practice, responsibilities of a directors role, given the requirement to procure or the time commitment required, and retain the appropriate may require an adjustment to the skills and given the expected level of their fee.
The Articles of Association of the Non executive directors are paid Company contain a maximum level an annual base fee with additional of fees that can be paid annually to fees for the roles of Senior non-executive directors currently Independent Director and or 400,000.
This is reviewed by the chairman of a board committee.
Remuneration Committee flexibility, discretion and judgement The Committee operates the variable incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans the Committee has certain operational powers.
These include the determination of: the participants of the plans on an annual basis the timing of grant of award and or payment the quantum of an award and or a payment within the limits set in the policy table above the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance adjustments required in certain circumstances eg change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special dividends good bad leaver status for incentive plan purposes and the appropriate treatment chosen the annual performance measures weighting, and targets for the annual bonus plan, PSP and MSP from year to year If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus or LTI performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate ie a material acquisition or divestment then the Committee will have the ability to adjust the measures and or targets and alter weightings so that the conditions are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
PAGE 108 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy The chart below illustrates the remuneration opportunity provided to each executive director at different levels of performance for the coming year: In developing the above scenarios the following assumptions have been used: Total fixed pay is based on the latest salary, benefits and pension allowances including both the accrual under the defined benefit scheme and the cash supplement, with the amounts being calculated on a basis consistent with those shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for the year ended 30 September 2015.
Salary Benefits Pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 N S Terrington 463 14 205 682 R J Woodman 291 12 148 451 J A Heron 247 12 110 369 Target is based on what each director would receive if performance was in line with targets.
Annual bonuses pay out at 50% of the maximum for on-target performance.
At median performance PSP awards would vest at 25%.
Maximum is based on 100% of the annual bonus and 100% vesting of the PSP awards.
No share price appreciation has been included in the above analysis.
As Sharesave awards are provided on an all employee basis they have not been included in the above analysis.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 109 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The choice of the performance measures applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committees belief that incentives should be appropriately challenging and tied to the achievement of both forward and backward-looking financial objectives, risk metrics and specific individual objectives linked to the Companys strategy.
The Committee reviews the measures each year and varies them as appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
A sliding scale of targets is set for each measure to encourage continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of above-target performance.
The PSP and MSP are subject to a combination of relative TSR and EPS growth measures.
EPS is considered appropriate as the activities of the Company in developing its new lending and other income streams should result in improvements to profitability and including a profit measure such as EPS will be reflective of long term performance.
It also provides a balance to relative TSR, which considers shareholder value creation and is a measure of market expectations of future performance.
The use of relative TSR and EPS growth in the LTIs provides a combined focus on the Groups financial performance and shareholder value creation.
Targets for EPS are set by reference to internal budgeting plans and external market expectations.
TSR targets are set on a standard practice, median to upper quartile ranking range.
Only 25% of the award is payable for threshold levels of performance.
Policy on recruitment and promotion Salaries for newly recruited directors will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
If it is considered appropriate to appoint a new director on a below market salary for example, to allow the director to gain experience in the role the individuals salary may be increased to a market level by way of a series of above inflation increases over two to three years, subject to their performance and development in the role.
A new appointment would be offered benefits comparable to existing directors, as well as other reasonable expenses such as legal, tax equalisation and relocation costs if necessary on a net of tax basis.
A new external appointment might be invited to participate in the defined benefit scheme on the same terms as those offered to existing directors.
Alternatively a cash supplement may be offered to new appointments.
The prevailing maximum bonus opportunity for existing directors will not be exceeded for any newly recruited director and would be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year worked.
It may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially, dependent on the timing of the appointment and the nature of the role taken up.
Guaranteed bonuses will not be offered.
LTI awards will be granted in line with the policy outlined for existing directors, with the same maximum opportunity for any newly recruited director.
Awards may be granted shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
Current entitlements for example, bonus and share awards which will lapse on the executives departure from a previous position may be replaced with awards that have no shorter time horizons, are subject to performance conditions if replacing awards subject to performance conditions and do not have a higher theoretical fair value.
The Committee retains flexibility to do so on such basis as it deems appropriate in the circumstances.
In the event that an existing employee is promoted to the Board, any contractual commitments made to the employee prior to such promotion will continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
PAGE 110 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Current service contracts and terms of engagement The Chairman and executive directors hold one year rolling contracts in line with current market practice and the Committee reviews the terms of these contracts regularly.
The current contracts are dated as follows: R G Dench - 8 February 2007 N S Terrington - 1 September 1990 amended 16 February 1993, 30 October 2001 and 10 March 2010 R J Woodman - 8 February 1996 amended 10 March 2010 J A Heron - 1 September 1990 amended 14 January, 8 February 1993 and 10 March 2010 In the event of early termination, the directors contracts provide for the payment of one years salary, benefits, pension and bonus in lieu of notice at the Companys option, payable on termination.
No provision exists for additional compensation in the event of termination due to a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements will continue to be honoured as they are contractual obligations of the Company.
All new executive directors externally recruited in future will have service contracts that are terminable by the Company on a maximum of twelve months notice, subject to a payment of salary, benefits and pension.
Provisions will be included in each new contract permitting the Company to make any termination payments by instalments, and requiring directors to mitigate their loss in such circumstances.
Of the directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting, Mr Dench, Mr Terrington, Mr Woodman and Mr Heron each has a service contract with the Company.
Executive directors may accept an external non-executive appointment with the approval of the Board.
Any fees earned are retained by the executive.
None of the executive directors currently earns remuneration from external non-executive appointments.
Current terms of engagement for the non-executive directors apply for the following periods: A K Fletcher - 25 February 2015 to 25 February 2018 P J N Hartill - 11 February 2014 to 11 February 2017 F J Clutterbuck - 12 September 2015 to 12 September 2018 H R Tudor - 24 November 2014 to 24 November 2017 Non-executive director appointments are for three years unless terminated earlier by, and at the discretion of, the director or the Company upon three months notice.
Policy on termination payments The provisions of the executive directors service contracts as noted above will determine their entitlement to salary, benefits, pension and bonus as compensation for loss of office.
Specific change of control provisions or entitlements to enhanced redundancy payments are excluded.
Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with the termination would be paid as necessary.
In specific circumstances, outplacement services and relocation expenses may be provided at normal market rates for directors.
For current executive directors, any entitlement to a bonus on termination would be based on an assessment of the performance over the period.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 111 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For a new appointment, bonuses would normally only be payable where the individual remains employed and is not under notice at the payment date.
However, in certain good leaver situations injury or disability, redundancy, employment transferred outside the Group, or any other reason the Committee decides a bonus may be payable at the Committees discretion, based on an assessment of the performance of the individual and the Company over the period of the bonus year worked.
The treatment of share based incentive awards will be determined by the Committee based on the relevant rules of the plan concerned.
The default treatment for outstanding unvested PSP awards will be that they lapse on cessation of employment.
In certain circumstances the Committee may determine a good leaver status, whereby an award shall continue on its original terms, until the normal vesting date unless the Committee decides it shall vest on the date of cessation subject to time pro-rating and assessment of the performance conditions.
The Committee may disapply time pro-rating if it considers the reduction is inappropriate.
If a participant dies before the normal vesting date the Committee may allow early vesting of the award, unless it considers it appropriate to continue to the normal vesting date.
Awards are subject to time pro-rating and assessment of the performance conditions unless the Committee considers the reduction by time pro-rating to be inappropriate, whereby it can be disapplied.
The default treatment for outstanding unvested MSP awards will be that they lapse on cessation of employment.
If a participant dies before the normal vesting date the award shall vest in full on the date of cessation.
For awards granted under the deferred share bonus plan, good leaver status would result in awards vesting on the date of cessation unless the Committee determines they should continue to the normal vesting date.
On determination of a good leaver status or as the result of a death, then awards under all plans may be exercised within twelve months of the date of vesting.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Directors and senior executives participate in the annual bonus scheme, which is designed to incentivise executives to achieve specific, predetermined goals, reward individual performance and encourage retention through deferral of a proportion of the bonus.
All employees whose performance has been exceptional are eligible for a discretionary bonus.
Directors and senior employees are eligible to participate in the PSP and the MSP, although no awards have been made under the MSP since January 2010 and the Remuneration Committee has no current intention of making any further grants before the expiry of the MSP in 2016 or replacing the plan with an equivalent one when it expires.
The two plans are in place to encourage the long-term retention of key executives who are considered to have the potential to influence shareholder value creation and awards are not offered to employees generally.
Employees below director and head of function level are eligible to participate in the Groups profit related pay scheme, which pays out a flat sum to all eligible staff based on a percentage of the Groups profits.
The Groups pension arrangements provide for a pension of 1 37.5 of basic annual salary to a maximum of 2 3 for every year of eligible service for directors and certain senior executives, whereas the accrual rate for other employees who are members of the Paragon Pension Plan is 1 60.
The Plan was closed to new entrants in 2002 and participation in a stakeholder defined contribution scheme was offered to new employees from that date.
In determining pay levels for the employees as a whole, the Group annually considers externally provided benchmark levels for comparable jobs as well as individual development and performance.
The general level of increase resulting from this review informs the Committees deliberations on appropriate pay levels for the executive directors, together with external data specific to their roles which is used to ensure that the levels of remuneration are appropriate.
The Committee does not formally consult employees on executive remuneration.
However, they have the opportunity to make comments on any aspect of the Companys activities through employee forums and surveys and their comments are considered by the Committee.
PAGE 112 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
