B6.2 RISK GOVERNANCE The Risk and Compliance Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference include all matters indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees responsibilities include reviewing: the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the extent to which risks inherent in the Groups business activities are controlled within the risk appetite established by the Board the effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls for compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations, as well as its obligations under significant contracts the appropriateness of the Groups risk culture, to ensure it supports the Groups stated risk appetite The Risk and Compliance Committee was established in 2014 and provides oversight and challenge to the Groups enterprise-wide risk management arrangements.
The Risk and Compliance Committee is now supported by an executive level Operational Risk and Compliance Committee together with an established Credit Committee and Asset and Liability Committee.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and normally invites the executive directors, Group Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Head of Internal Audit to attend its meetings, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The Committee will also meet with the Group Chief Risk Officer at least once a year, without the presence of executive management, to discuss his remit and any issues arising from it.
The first such meeting will take place within twelve months from the appointment of the Group Chief Risk Officer, which was in June 2015.
The Committee also has the opportunity to meet with the Head of Internal Audit and or the external auditor without the presence of executive management to discuss any matters that any of these parties believe should be discussed privately.
The Committee is developing its annual schedule of events as the Groups governance and risk framework is developed and embedded.
Agenda items for regular meetings of the Committee will include: Receiving and considering reports relating to the Groups consolidated risk profile, its performance against risk appetite and the progress of any resulting management actions and key risks Reviewing any proposed material changes to the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board Reviewing the Groups Compliance Monitoring Plan Receiving reports relating to key regulatory developments affecting the Group Reviewing the Groups conduct strategy and receiving reports from management on conduct risk to include product governance, complaint handling and outcomes testing Receiving reports from the Groups Money Laundering Reporting Officer on compliance with Anti Money Laundering requirements Reviewing the Groups capital adequacy assessments and stress testing analysis Considering the minutes of its executive sub-committees The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 115 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The structure of the executive committees reporting to the Committee and their reporting lines is illustrated below: Each of the executive committees operates within terms of reference formally approved by the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The primary functions of each of these committees is described below.
Asset & Liability Committee ALCO ALCO comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The principal purpose of the ALCO is to monitor and review the financial risk management of the Groups balance sheet.
As such, it is responsible for overseeing all aspects of market risk, liquidity risk and capital management as well as the treasury control framework.
ALCO operates within clear delegated authorities, monitoring exposures and providing recommendations on actions required.
Credit Committee The Credit Committee comprises senior managers from the finance and risk functions and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The Credit Committee approves credit risk policies and defines risk grading and underwriting criteria for the Group.
It also provides guidance and makes recommendations in order to implement the Groups strategic plans for credit.
This committee oversees the management of the credit portfolio, the post origination risk management processes and the management of past due or impaired credit accounts.
It also makes recommendations for credit risk appetite and monitors performance against appetite on an on-going basis.
Operational Risk and Compliance Committee The Operational Risk and Compliance Committee comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer the Chief Operating Officer until June 2015.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups operational risk management and compliance systems, ensuring that the business is operating within its risk appetite.
It considers key operational risk information such as loss events, emerging risks and control failures.
With respect to Compliance, the Committee is responsible for overseeing the maintenance of effective systems and controls to meet regulatory and conduct obligations and for countering the risk that the Group might be used to further financial crime.
It is also responsible for reviewing the quality, adequacy, resources, scope and nature of the work of the Group Compliance function, including the annual Compliance Monitoring Plan.
PAGE 116 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
