B3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B3.1 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy and for the delivery of that strategy within a strong corporate governance and corporate responsibility framework.
That framework is described in the following pages.
The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 and which is publicly available at www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2015 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
Leadership The Board of Directors is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving major agreements, transactions and other financing matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and the executive directors, determination and approval of the Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, investment decisions, corporate governance policies and financial and dividend policies.
During the year the Board of Directors consisted of the Chairman, three executive directors and four non-executive directors, except that between November 2014 and July 2015 there was an additional non-executive director.
All the directors bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of experience and further detail of this together with additional biographical details are set out in section B2.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including the Senior Independent Director, Edward Tilly until 1 July 2015 and Fiona Clutterbuck since that date.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the biographical details in section B2 and there have been no significant changes during the period to those commitments.
The Board has agreed a set of guiding principles on managing conflicts and a process to identify and authorise any conflicts which might arise, which was updated during year.
At each meeting of the Board actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any director are reviewed.
PAGE 64 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
