REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE signed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with The Audit Committee, chaired by Stuart Paul and compristhe internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reing Mr Paul, Gordon Neilly and Frank Rushbrook, meets porting Council.
The process relies principally on a riskat least twice yearly to coincide with the annual and interim based system of internal control whereby a test matrix is reporting cycle.
The principal rle of the Audit Committee is created that identifies the key functions carried out by the to review the annual and interim financial statements, the Company and other service providers, the individual acAccounting Policies applied therein and to ensure complitivities undertaken within those functions, the risks assoance with financial and regulatory reporting requirements.
ciated with each activity and the controls employed to The Audit Committee discusses and agrees the scope of the minimise those risks.
A formal annual review of these proaudit plan for the year ahead and the Auditors Report on cedures is carried out by the Board and includes considertheir findings at the conclusion of the audit.
The terms of refation of internal control reports issued by the Investment erence of the Audit Committee clearly define the CommitAdviser and other service providers.
These terms are reviewed annually and are available for inspection on the Companys website.
Such review procedures have been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual The Audit Committee also reviews the system of internal Report and Accounts, and the Board is satisfied with their controls, the terms of appointment of the Auditors includeffectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage, ing their remuneration, the objectivity of the Auditors and rather than eliminate, risk and, by their nature, can prothe terms under which they are appointed to perform nonvide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against maaudit services.
The Audit Committee also received a report terial misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the from the Auditors identifying to its satisfaction how their inBoard reviews the Companys activities since the previous dependence and objectivity is maintained when providing Board Meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser adthese non-audit services.
Fees for these services amounted to heres to the agreed investment policy and approved in- 9,000 for the year ended 30 April 2015 2014: 11,000.
The vestment guidelines and, if necessary, the Board approves Board considers that the provision of such services at this changes to the guidelines.
level is cost effective and does not impair the independence of Ernst & Young LLP EY.
Personal Assets Trust Administration Company Limited acts as the Companys AIFM for the purposes of the The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the AIFM Directive and provides secretarial and administraaudit, the quality of the team and advice received from tive services to the Company.
them through reviewing interaction with the Auditors, reports received from them and discussion with manageThe Company does not have an internal audit function as ment.
The Audit Committee continues to be satisfied with the Audit Committee believes that the Companys straightthe effectiveness of the work provided by EY and that EY forward structure and small number of employees do not remain objective and independent.
This is reviewed by the Committee annually.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered whether the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess The significant issue considered by the Audit Committee during the year in relation to the financial statements of the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
the Group was the existance and valuation of investments.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and The AIFM regularly reconciles the portfolio holdings to understandable.
The Audit Committee reached this conconfirmations from the Companys custodian and carries out testing of the prices obtained from the independent clusion based on a detailed review of the financial statepricing source.
Based on confirmation from the AIFM that ments and subsequent discussion on whether the accounts are fair, balanced and understandable by all members of these procedures have operated correctly at 30 April 2015 the Committee.
and based on conversations with and written reporting from the Depositary, the Committee is satisfied that there AUDIT TENDER is no material mis-statement in the context of the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole.
EU regulation requires a change of Auditors by 2020 and the Boards intention is to put the audit out for tender at STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS the next Audit Partner rotation point, after the 30 April 2018 Annual Report and Accounts are approved.
As far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, EY were appointed at the Companys launch in 1983.
The and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to Audit Engagement Partner rotates every five years in achave taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of cordance with ethical guidelines and 2015 is the second any relevant audit information and to establish that the year for the current partner.
Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
INTERNAL CONTROLS Stuart W Paul The Board is responsible for the Companys system of inDirector ternal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore established an ongoing process fide- 5 June 2015 Page 28
