CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION terest which are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
Hamish Buchan and Gordon Neilly have served for Personal Assets is a self-managed investment trust run by more than nine years.
However, the Board subscribes to its Board, which takes all major decisions collectively.
the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving While Robin Angus has executive duties, all of the DirecDirectors should not be prevented from forming part of an tors regard themselves and one another as equal in the duindependent majority, and does not consider that a Directies and responsibilities they owe to shareholders and tors length of tenure reduces his ability to act independaccordingly work together as a unitary Board within which ently.
the Chairman who is elected by the Directors from among their own number acts as primus inter pares.
Directors fees are determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The approval of The Directors are elected by the shareholders and regard shareholders in a General Meeting is required to change corporate governance and accountability to shareholders this limit.
They therefore place considerable emphasis on running the Company in the way they believe to Date of Due date for be best suited to the successful management of an investDirector Appointment Re-election ment trust on behalf of its shareholders.
Hamish Buchan Arrangements appropriate to an investment trust in reChairman 5 July 2001 AGM 2015 spect of corporate governance have been made by the Robin Angus Board.
The Board has considered the principles and recExecutive Director 18 May 1984 AGM 2015 ommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate GoverGordon Neilly 30 April 1997 AGM 2015 finance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Stuart Paul 16 July 2009 AGM 2015 Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies Frank Rushbrook 16 July 2009 AGM 2015 the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the Any new Directors appointed during the year must stand AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK for re-appointment at the first Annual General Meeting Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Refollowing their appointment.
All executive and non-execuporting Council the UK Code, as well as setting out tive Directors retire annually and, where appropriate, stand additional principles and recommendations which are of for re-election.
Other than for Robin Angus there is no nospecific relevance to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can tice period and no provision for compensation on early terbe obtained from the AICs website at www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles Only Robin Angus has a contract of service with the Comand recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference pany.
Details of this service contract, his remuneration, to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will and fees paid to other Directors during the year are shown provide better information to shareholders than if it had in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Individual Directors may, after having obtained the conCOMPLIANCE sent of any other Director, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense on any matter that conThe Company has complied throughout the year, and concerns the furtherance of their duties.
Details of the Directinues to comply, with the recommendations of the AIC tors authority in relation to the issue and buying back by Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except the Company of its shares can be found in the Directors as disclosed below.
Similarly, details of those persons with significant The Board does not consider it appropriate for a Senior holdings in the Company are set out in the Directors ReIndependent Director to be appointed as recommended by port.
4.1 of the UK Code, as it operates as a unitary Board.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board does not consider it appropriate for Directors The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director of the to be appointed for a specific term as recommended by Company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might principle 4 of the AIC Code and provision B.
2.3 of the UK have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the inCode.
The UK Code requires all Directors of FTSE 350 terests of the Company.
Each Director submits a list of pocompanies to retire annually.
This has been the Companys tential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other Directors practice since 2007 and each Director will retire at the consider these and recommend whether or not each poforthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer himself tential conflict should be authorised.
No situation arose for re-election.
during the year whereby an interest of a Director conflicted with the interests of the Company.
The Board does not consider it appropriate for an external evaluation of the Board to be carried out as recommended MEETINGS by provision B.
6.2 of the Code as it believes the current During the year there were five Board meetings, each of evaluation process to be objective and rigorous.
The which was attended by all of the Directors.
There were Board, which is a unitary Board and meets formally or inthree Audit Committee meetings, two Remuneration Comformally at least once a month, is also of the view that its mittee meetings and a Nomination Committee meeting composition is suitably diverse and effective.
All of these meetings were attended by all of the respective committee members except Stuart DIRECTORS Paul, who attended one Remuneration Committee meetAll of the non-executive Directors are considered to be ining and could not attend the Nomination Committee dependent in character and judgement and, in the opinion meeting.
of the Board, there are no relationships or conflicts of inPage 26 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2130 AGM 3133 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Under the terms of the contracts with the AIFM and the shares: e matters relating to shareholder communication: Investment Adviser, the following matters have been exf hedging: g investment in any new asset class: h and pressly reserved to the Board: a the level and form of liqsuch other matters as the Board may reasonably intimate uidity within the portfolio: b asset allocation within the from time to time.
However, the Board is required to engage portfolio: c the Companys gearing levels: d matters rein active dialogue with the Investment Adviser in relation to lating to the buying back and issuance of the Companys the matters referred to at items a, b, e, and f above.
The following diagram highlights various matters considered by the Board during the past year: May June Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Annual Semi-Annual Consider Semi-Annual Internal Corporate Consider General Investment 3rd Interim Investment Controls Governance 1st Interim Meeting Report Dividend Report Review Review Dividend Board and Consider Approval Annual Review Review AIFM Strategy Committee 2nd Interim of the Interim of Risk of Directors Directive Session Evaluation Dividend Report Registers Fees Review Approval Consider Appointment of the 4th Interim of Investment Annual Report Dividend Adviser VOTING POLICY being considered and the Company will announce the successful candidate when the appointment has been conThe Investment Adviser is to exercise all votes exercisable firmed.
by the Company in relation to the Companys investments in favour of resolutions proposed by the Boards of investee New Directors appointed to the Board are given an incompanies, save where the Board instructs otherwise.
duction meeting with the Executive Office and are proBoard decisions regarding voting on corporate resolutions vided with all relevant information regarding the Company of companies in which the Company invests are a matter and their duties as a Director.
Thereafter, regular briefings for the whole Board.
All resolutions on which the Comare provided on changes in regulatory requirements that pany is entitled to vote are monitored and, although norcould affect the Company and the Directors.
Professional mally the Company would vote in favour of all Board advisers report from time to time and Directors will, if necresolutions, any contentious matters are referred to the Diessary, attend seminars covering relevant issues and develrectors by e-mail for comment.
that the Company should cast an affirmative vote informs PERFORMANCE EVALUATION the Company Secretary and requests that his view be conDuring the year the performance of the Board, the Audit sidered by a sub-committee of the Board consisting of any Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneratwo Directors.
The sub-committee then considers the mattion Committee and individual Directors was evaluated ter and informs the Director of its conclusion.
Should the through a discussion based assessment process led by the Director disagree with the sub-committees conclusion, a Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman was evalufull Board meeting is called to consider the matter.
ated by the other Directors.
The UK Code requires the COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Company to engage an external facilitator for the Board The Board welcomes the views of shareholders and places evaluation every three years.
However, the Board has considerable importance on communications with them.
elected not to comply with this requirement as disclosed The Investment Adviser reports back to the Board on on page 26. meetings with shareholders and the Chairman and other GOING CONCERN Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and reThe Annual General Meeting of the Company and the view processes noted above and bearing in mind the naLondon Shareholder Meeting provide a forum, both forture of the Groups business and assets, which are mal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss isconsidered to be readily realisable if required, that the sues with the Board.
Group has adequate resources to continue operating for NOMINATION COMMITTEE the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
and comprising Mr Buchan, Stuart Paul and Frank Rushbrook, considers the appointment of new Directors.
DiBy Order of the Board versity, including gender, is considered when seeking potential candidates.
The Nomination Committee meets Steven K Davidson at least annually.
Secretary In November 2014 the Board announced that it had fide- 10 St Colme Street cided to increase its size from five to six by the AGM in Edinburgh EH3 6AA July 2016 and that it expected that the appointee would be 5 June 2015 female.
A number of strong contenders for the position are Page 27
