Report on Corporate Governance The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the The Board considers for the year under review that the governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing Directors, Board and Company have complied with the Rules require all listed companies to disclose how they recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Code except as noted below: provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK as all Directors are non-executive and day to day Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the management has been contracted to third parties FRC.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
uk the Company does not have a separate role for a The Association of Investment Companies AIC Chief Executive from that of Chairman of the Board: publishes a Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code as there are no executive Directors or employees and a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment it does not comply with the UK Code in respect Companies AIC Guide.
In March 2015 the AIC of executive directors remuneration: and published a revised AIC Code and AIC Guide to reflect the Company does not have an internal audit function changes made to the UK Code in September 2014.
In line as it relies on the systems of control operated by third with the UK Code the revised AIC Code and AIC Guide party suppliers in particular those of the Investment apply to accounting periods beginning on or after Manager.
The Board monitors these systems of 1 October 2014 but AIC members may choose to adopt internal control to provide assurance that they the new AIC Code earlier which the Company has operate as intended.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, as explained in The Financial Reporting Council has confirmed that by the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are following the AIC Code and the AIC Guide, boards of not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment companies will meet their obligations in investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys relation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the UK day-to-day management and administrative functions are Listing Rules.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide address the principles The report on corporate governance describes how the set out in the UK Code as well as additional principles principles of the AIC Code have been applied.
and recommendations on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be viewed at Application of the AIC Codes Principles www.
co. uk The Board attaches great importance to the matters contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant Statement of Compliance requirements throughout the year under review.
The Board has considered the principles and The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Code, AIC Guide and the Board believes that the Companys addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, current practices are consistent in all material respects as well as setting out additional principles and with the principles of the AIC Code.
Where nonrecommendations on issues that are of specific compliance occurs, an explanation has been provided.
The Board will continue to observe the principles and The Board considers that reporting against the principles recommendations set out in the AIC Code in future.
and recommendations of the AIC Code, by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information for shareholders.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 63 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued experience of the Company, industry and the markets is of Directors and Board great benefit to shareholders.
The Board is of the opinion I In nd fide ep pe en nd fide enc nce e a an nd d c co omp mpo os si it ti io on n that long service does not necessarily compromise the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall independence or contribution of Directors of investment management of the Companys affairs and currently trusts where continuity and experience can significantly consists of seven Non-executive Directors.
All the benefit a board, a view supported by the AIC.
Directors, with the exception of Brian Ashford-Russell, were considered independent of the Investment Manager The Boards policy is to ensure that a balance of skills and and had no relationship or conflicts which were likely to experience is maintained and regularly refreshed.
Consequently the majority of the Board is independent of the Investment The Nomination Committee is responsible for the Manager and the Board considers that its overall composition of the Board and it considers not only the composition is adequate for the effective governance existing Board but also if further appointments should be of the Company.
The Nomination Committee seeks to balance the time required, the skills, knowledge and experience of individual The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Directors to form an effective and efficient Board.
Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chairman works with the Company Secretary When considering new appointments the Nomination for setting the Boards agenda and for balancing the Committee seeks to have a list of candidates for the issues presented to each meeting.
Open and frank debate whole Board to consider that will enhance the Board or is encouraged at each Board meeting and the Chairman replace and refresh skills lost through a Director leaving keeps in touch with the Company Secretary and other the Board.
As such the Board, while it has not set Directors between Board meetings.
specific targets, will have regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, when further The Chairman writes each year to the largest appointments are considered.
shareholders to enable them to raise any concerns direct with the Chairman and the Board without using the E El le ec ct ti io on a n an nd r d re et ti ir re em me en nt of D t of Di ir re ec ct to or rs at t s at th he A e AG GM M Investment Manager or Company Secretary as a conduit.
The Articles of Association the Articles govern the appointment, re-election and removal of a Director.
The Chairman was independent on his appointment The Articles permit the Board to appoint further as Chairman and continues to meet the criteria Directors without shareholder approval but subject to for independence.
any such Directors standing for election by shareholders Each Director has different qualities and areas of at the first AGM following their appointment.
expertise on which they may lead where issues arise.
All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three The Directors are listed on pages 56 and 57 along with years and are subject to re-election by shareholders their biographical details which demonstrate the breadth at a general meeting in accordance with the Articles.
of investment, commercial and professional experience The Articles and the Companies Act provide for the relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of The Articles also state that any Director who the corporate company secretary through its appointed has served for over nine years should stand for representative who is responsible to the Board for annual re-election.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that Any Director who has served over nine years and stands applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The for re-election due to length of service is carefully and Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, rigorously assessed by the Nomination Committee to co-operative and open environment.
ensure that the Director continues to make a valuable S Suc ucc ce es ssio sion n p pl lann anni in ng g an and d d di iv ver ersi sit ty y contribution to the Board and remains independent in While the Board recognises the value of progressive character and judgement.
refreshing of and succession planning for company Notwithstanding the provisos of the Articles, the UK boards, it is conscious of the need to maintain continuity Code requires all directors of FTSE350 companies to and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 64 retire annually.
Therefore all the Directors who were to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts if the Articles elected at last years AGM will retire at the forthcoming of Association contain provisions to this effect.
The AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election Companys Articles contain such provisions.
with the exception of David Gamble who is retiring.
In The Board has always had in place policies to govern accordance with the Articles Charlotta Ginman will stand situations where a potential conflict of interests may for election as she was appointed by the other Directors arise, in particular where a Director is also a director of during the last financial year.
a company in which the Company invests or may invest.
The Nomination Committee led by the Chairman carried out Where such a situation arises, these Directors are a formal review of each Directors performance, the excluded from any discussions or decisions relating performance of each Board Committee and of the whole to investments in their respective companies.
Board as explained in the section on the work of the Each Director has provided the Company with a statement Nomination Committee.
The process involved carefully of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of reviewing and rigorously assessing the contribution of each interest.
These have been approved by the Board and Director and their independence.
The Chairman and the recorded in a register.
The Board may impose conditions Committee have determined that each Director standing for on authorising any conflict or potential conflict situations.
re-election continued to offer relevant experience, Each Director has agreed to notify the Chairman and the effectively contributed to the operation of the Board and had Company Secretary of any changes to his circumstances demonstrated independent views on a range of subjects.
which would impact on the notified conflicts or potential The Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination conflicts and obtain approval before entering into any Committee, supports each of the Directors standing situation which might give rise to a conflict or potential for re-election.
conflict with the interests of the Company.
D Di ir re ec cto tor rs s i int nte er re es st ts s Directors are reminded at each Board meeting of their obligations to notify any changes in their statement of Brian Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP conflicts and also to declare any benefits from third and a Non-executive Director and shareholder in Polar parties in their capacity as a Director of the Company Capital Holdings plc, the ultimate holding company of Polar which might give rise to a conflict or potential conflict Capital LLP and as such he has an interest in the with the Companys interests.
No Director has declared investment management contract.
He is therefore not receipt of any benefits other than his emoluments in his considered to be an independent Director.
However, the capacity as a Director of the Company.
Board values the fact that Brian Ashford-Russell, although no longer actively involved in the day to day management of Only Directors not involved in the conflict or potential the portfolio, serves as a Director of the Company and conflict participate in the authorisation process.
Directors gives the Directors and shareholders the benefit of his in deciding whether to authorise a situation take into experience and knowledge.
account their duty to promote the Companys success.
No Director, except Brian Ashford-Russell, has any links The Board reviews annually the register of conflicts, with the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
There any conditions imposed on such conflicts or potential were no other contracts during or at the end of the year in conflicts and the operation of the notification and which a Director of the Company is or was materially authorisation process.
They conducted the annual interested and which is or was significant in relation to review as part of the processes for preparing the annual the Companys business.
report and concluded that the process has operated effectively since its introduction.
The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Except as disclosed above in relation to Brian AshfordRussells interest in the contract with Polar Capital LLP C Co on nf fl li ic ct ts o s of i f in nt te er re es st ts s there were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they the year in which a Director is or was interested and have or could have a conflict of interest or possible which is or was significant in relation to the Companys conflict with the interests of the Company.
From October business or to the Director.
2008 the Companies Act 2006 permitted public companies Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 65 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued Di Dir re ec ct to or rs s pr pro of fe es ss si io on na al l d fide eve velo lopme pmen nt t including the use of treasury shares are kept under When a new Director is appointed he or she is offered an review along with matters affecting the industry and the induction course provided by the Investment Manager.
evaluation of third party service providers.
The Board has Directors are welcome to visit the Investment Manager at also spent considerable time over the year considering any time to receive an update on any aspect of particular and reviewing regulatory changes that have impacted interest or a general refresher on the operations of the the Company in particular AIFMD which led to the Investment Manager.
Directors are also provided on a appointment of HSBC as Depositary and custodian regular basis with key information on the Companys and Polar Capital LLP as the AIFM.
policies, regulatory and statutory obligations and internal A strategy board meeting is held each year where controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are investment ideas are discussed.
advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in professional and industry seminars and may Through this process the Board supervises the use the online training modules of the Investment Manager management of the investment portfolio, the work of the to ensure they maintain their knowledge.
Investment Manager, the risks to which the Company is exposed and their mitigation, and the quality of services The Boards Role and Responsibilities received by the Company.
The Board meets regularly and six scheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the stewardship of the If additional meetings of the Board are required these Company and other matters.
There is a formal schedule of are arranged as required.
matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board.
The Board has delegated to a number of standing During the course of the year the Board has considered committees specific remits for consideration and the setting and monitoring of investment strategy and recommendation but the final responsibility in these guidelines, portfolio performance, the preparation and areas remains with the Board.
review of financial statements, approval of borrowing Should it be necessary, a procedure has been adopted limits within which the Investment Manager has for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take discretion to act, and shareholder issues including independent professional advice at the expense of the communications and investor relations.
The level of share Company.
No such advice has been sought during the price discount or premium to Net Asset Value together past year.
with policies for re-purchase or issuance of new shares The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the financial year and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below.
1 M 1 Ma ay 2 y 20 01 14 t 4 to 3 o 30 A 0 Ap pr ri il 2 l 20 01 15 5 Board & Management Strategy Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration AGM Number of Meetings 6 3 2 4 2 1 Michael Moule 6 6 3 3 2 2 4 4 1 1 Brian Ashford-Russell 6 6 1 1 Sarah Bates 6 6 3 3 2 2 4 4 2 2 1 1 Charlotta Ginman 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 David Gamble 6 6 3 3 2 2 4 4 1 1 Peter Hames 5 6 3 3 2 2 4 4 2 2 1 1 Rupert Montagu 6 6 3 3 2 2 4 4 2 2 1 1 Director from 2 February 2015 Not a member but attended part of the meeting by invitation Mr Hames missed one meeting due to illness.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 66 A number of ad hoc special purpose Board and Committee The Committee considers any matter to do with the meetings were held during the year for the approval of relationship with the Investment Manager, including the documents and approval of regulatory announcements all terms of the investment management agreement and its of which had been previously considered by the full Board.
The Committee also has responsibility to conduct the annual review of the Senior Independent Director services provided by the Investment Manager prior to The Board elected Rupert Montagu to be the Senior making its recommendation to the Board, on the Independent Director and he can be contacted via the retention of the Investment Manager being in the Registered Office of the Company.
This Committee meets at least annually and at such other times as may be necessary.
Board Committees The Board has created four standing committees whose Work of the Management Engagement Committee terms are described below.
The Board also creates ad In the year to 30 April 2015 it has met twice to consider hoc committees from time to time to enact or approve the terms of appointment of the AIFM and Depositary as policies or actions agreed in principle by the whole Board.
required by the AIFMD and also to consider the services The terms of reference for each of the standing provided by the Investment Manager and terms of the committees are available on the Companys website.
investment management agreement with a view to the continued appointment of the investment manager.
A Aud udit it C Co om mm mit itt te ee e David Gamble is Chairman of the Audit Committee which The Committee has also discussed the fee arrangement comprises all the independent Non-executive Directors with the investment manager and since the year end has except the Chairman of the Board who attends as an met to agree a new few arrangement as described in the observer.
Charlotta Ginman will succeed David Gamble Chairmans statement on page 7. as Chairman of this committee following his retirement The recommendation of the Board to continue with Polar on 9September 2015.
Capital LLP on the terms agreed is set out on page 54.
The Committee has written terms of reference which N No om mi in nat ati io on C n Co om mm mi it tt te ee e clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
David Michael Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the Gamble will be present at the AGM to deal with questions Nomination Committee.
All the independent Nonrelating to the financial statements.
executive Directors are members of the Nomination None of the members of the Audit Committee has any Committee.
The Committee meets at least annually and is involvement in the preparation of the financial statements responsible to the Board for the size and structure of the of the Company, as this has been contracted to the Board as well as for succession planning and the tenure Investment Manager.
The Board is satisfied that at least policy for Directors.
one of the Committees members has recent and relevant Succession planning will be conducted using the Boards financial experience.
views on diversity and to achieve a balance of skills, The Audit Committee has direct access to the auditors knowledge and experience on the Board.
The Committee and to the key senior staff of the Investment Manager and will make recommendations to the Board when the it reports its findings and recommendations to the Board further recruitment of Non-executive Directors is which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial required.
The Chairman does not participate in any statements of the Company.
discussion or decision on his role or replacement.
A separate report of the work of the Audit Committee over Once a decision has been made that additional directors the year is set out on pages 71 to 75. are to be recruited then candidates will be drawn from suggestions put forward by the use of external agencies.
M Ma an nag age eme men nt t Eng Engag age eme men nt t C Co om mm mit itt te ee e The final selection will be made by the full Board Michael Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the following recommendations by the Committee.
All independent Non-executive Directors are members of the Management Engagement Committee.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 67 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued The Committee also reviews the performance of the During the year the Committee also engaged a specialist Board as a whole and each individual Director.
Rerecruitment consultant to conduct a search for a new appointment as a Director is not automatic and will follow Non-executive Director who would have the necessary a process of evaluation of each Directors performance.
skills to replace the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board acknowledges the rationale of the UK Code The Committee received a long list of Candidates which it for the rigorous review of Directors serving over six considered and asked for a number of candidates to move years and annual re-appointment after nine years.
forward to a short list which was presented to the entire Nevertheless the Board shares the view of the AIC that Board for consideration and interview.
length of service will not necessarily compromise the R Re em mu un ne er rat ati io on C n Co om mm mi it tt te ee e independence or contribution of directors of investment The Remuneration Committee is chaired by the Senior trusts where continuity and experience can significantly Independent Director, Rupert Montagu and comprises strengthen a board.
Sarah Bates and Peter Hames.
Work of the Nomination Committee The Committee meets at least annually and is The Nomination Committee has overseen the responsible for recommending the framework for the performance evaluation process and the succession remuneration of Directors.
The Committee reviews the planning designed to replace gradually the longest ongoing appropriateness of the remuneration policy and serving Directors.
the individual remuneration of Directors based on The evaluation of the Board, its Committees and their contributions.
individual Directors is carried out annually by the A separate report of the work of the Committee over Chairman of the Nomination Committee and in the year is set out on pages 76 to 79 in the Directors accordance with the UK Code every three years an Remuneration Report.
externally facilitated review is performed.
In between the external reviews the Chairman undertakes an appraisal Performance Evaluation using a system that seeks the views of each Director by B Bo oa ar rd d, D, Di ir re ec ct to or rs a s an nd C d Co om mm mi it tt te ee es s a questionnaire and interviews.
An external facilitated The Board through the Nomination Committee considers review will take place later in 2015 for reporting in the its own performance and that of the Directors.
The work 2016 Annual Report of the Nomination Committee is reported separately.
The Chairmans review is conducted by the Senior I Inv nve es st tm me en nt t Ma Man na ag ge er r Independent Director.
These reviews are reported to the Nomination Committee.
The Management Engagement Committee is responsible for the terms of appointment of the Investment Manager In evaluating each Director, they are assessed on their and it regularly reviews the terms of the contract.
The relevant experience, their strengths and weaknesses in work of the Management Engagement Committee is relation to the overall requirements of the Board and their reported separately.
commitment to the Company in terms of time by regular attendance of Board meetings.
The process is The Board has contractually delegated the management constructed to assess the contribution of individual of the portfolio to the Investment Manager, Polar Capital Directors to the overall operation of the Board and its LLP the Investment Manager.
It is the Investment Committees as well as to identify areas of improvement Managers sole responsibility to take decisions as to the in the operation of the Board and its Committees.
purchase and sale of individual investments other than unquoted investments where the Board is consulted.
The report provided by the last external review The Investment Manager has responsibility for tactical provided the Committee with a number of specific gearing, asset allocation and sector selection within recommendations dealing with administrative matters.
the guidelines established and regularly reviewed by The Committee as part of this years review has the Board.
considered the progress made against each of these recommendations and noted that satisfactory progress has been achieved against all the major recommendations.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 68 The Investment Manager is responsible for providing or Internal Controls procuring accountancy services, company secretarial The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys and administrative services.
The Investment Manager system of internal control and for reviewing its also ensures that all Directors receive in a timely manner effectiveness.
The Company has no employees as its all relevant management, regulatory and financial operational functions are carried out by third parties and information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for attend Board meetings enabling the Directors to probe the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
further on matters of concern or seek clarification on Contracts with suppliers are entered into after full and certain issues.
proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost The whole Board reviews the performance of the of the services offered, including the control systems in Investment Manager at each Board meeting and the operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Companys performance against the market and a peer Company.
The Investment Manager has an internal group of funds with similar investment objectives.
The control framework to provide reasonable but not absolute investment team provided by the Investment Manager, assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls led by Ben Rogoff, has long experience of investment in operated on behalf of its clients.
In addition, the Investment Manager has other is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct investment resources which support the investment team Authority and its compliance department monitors and experience in managing and administering other compliance with the FCA rules.
The Board through the Audit Committee has established a O Ot th he er k r ke ey s y su up pp pl li ie er rs t s to t o th he C e Co om mp pa an ny y process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and The Board also monitors directly or through the Investment reviewing, and managing any principle risks faced by the Manager the performance of its other service providers.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is documented through the use of a Risk Map which is The Board directly appointed the custodian up to subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and 22July2014 when the appointment as HSBC Bank Plc as accords with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Depositary was effective and the responsibility for safe Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting custody transferred to the Depositary.
The Depositary issued in September 2014 by the Financial Reporting reports quarterly and makes an annual presentation to Council.
The controls are embedded within the business the Board.
and aim to ensure that identified risks are managed and systems are in place to report on such risks.
The internal The share registrars are directly appointed by the Board controls seek to ensure the assets of the Company are and their performance is monitored by the Investment safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained Manager.
Regular reports are received on their work.
and the financial information used in the Company and for publication is reliable.
Controls covering the risks Other suppliers such as printers, website services and identified, including financial, operational, compliance PR agents are monitored by the Investment Manager and risk management are monitored by a series of and present to the Board on specific tasks or generally regular reports covering investment performance, when required.
attribution analysis, reports from various third parties Accountability and Audit and from the Investment Manager including risks not The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
the financial statements is set out on pages 80 and 81 and the Independent Auditors Report is on pages 82 to 85.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 69 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued O Op pe er rat ati io on n Shareholders are kept informed by the publication of The process was active throughout the year and up to annual and interim reports which include financial the date of approval of this annual report.
These reports are supplemented by the daily such a system is designed to manage rather than release of the net asset value per share to the London eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys Stock Exchange and the publication by the Investment business objectives and can only provide reasonable Manager of a monthly factsheet.
All this information and not absolute assurance against material together with the Investment Managers presentations misstatement or loss.
A description of the work of the are available from the Companys website at Audit Committee is set out in its separate report.
co. uk The Board is also keen that the AGM be a participative The Board through the Audit Committee has received event for all shareholders who attend.
The Investment formal reports from the Investment Manager with details Managers make a presentation and shareholders are of any known internal control failures.
The Board encouraged to attend.
The Chairmen of the Board and considers reports on the Investment Managers internal of the Committees attend the AGM and are available to controls and systems operated by other third party respond to queries and concerns from shareholders.
The Board also receives and considers ad hoc The Directors make themselves available after the AGM reports from the Investment Manager and information to meet shareholders.
is supplied to the Board as required.
The Board also examined the risks and controls operated by the Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the Investment Manager when placing investment trades proxy votes received are relayed to the meeting and with third parties.
subsequently published on the Companys website.
Proxy forms have a vote withheld option.
The Notice of Meeting The Investment Manager has delegated the provision of accounting, portfolio valuation and trade processing to sets out the business of the AGM together with the full HSBC Securities Services UK Limited but remains text of any special resolutions.
responsible to the Company for these functions and The Company has made arrangements for investors provides the Board with information on these services.
through the Alliance Savings Scheme to receive all Company communications and have the ability to direct Relations with Shareholders the casting of their votes.
The Company has also made The Board and the Investment Manager consider arrangements with its registrar for shareholders, who maintaining good communications with shareholders and own their shares direct rather than through a nominee or engaging with larger shareholders through meetings and share scheme, to view their account over the Internet at presentations a key priority.
Other services are also available The Board regularly considers the share register of via this service.
the Company and receives regular reports from the By order of the Board Investment Manager on all meetings attended with shareholders and any concerns that are raised in such meetings.
The Board also reviews correspondence from shareholders at each meeting and maintains regular Neil Taylor FCIS contact with major shareholders.
Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary The Chairman or other Directors are available to shareholders who wish to raise matters either in person 24 July 2015 or in writing.
The Chairman and Directors may be contacted through the registered office of the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 70
