Audit Committee Report The constitution and composition of the Audit Committee the consideration of reports from the Investment is given on page 67.
There has been one change to the Manager and auditors on the effectiveness of the system membership of the Committee over the financial year to of internal financial controls including the risk map: and 30 April 2015.
Charlotta Ginman, who was appointed as an the going concern statement, longer-term viability independent Non-executive Director in February 2015, statement and the requirement that the annual report has been appointed to the Audit Committee and is and financial statements when taken as a whole is fair, expected to become its chairman on the retirement of balanced and unstandable.
David Gamble following the AGM on 9 September 2015.
Efficacy of Audit Process During the year under review the Committee was chaired The Audit Committee monitored and evaluated the by David Gamble and comprised of all the independent Noneffectiveness of the auditors and any changes in the executive Directors with the exception of the Chairman of terms of their appointment based on an assessment of the Board who attends by invitation.
The Board is satisfied their performance, qualification, knowledge, expertise that at least one member of the Committee has sufficient and resources.
The auditors independence was also recent and relevant financial experience for the Committee considered along with other factors such as audit to discharge its functions effectively.
The experience of the planning and interpretations of accounting standards.
members of the Committee can be assessed from the This evaluation has been carried out throughout the year Directors biographies set out on pages 56 and 57. by meetings held with the auditors, by review of the audit  LLP PwC has been process and by comments from the Investment Manager the appointed auditor since 1996. and others involved in the audit process.
During the year the Committee met three times, with The auditors are provided with an opportunity to address all members attending each meeting, and considered the Committee without the Investment Manager present the following matters: to raise any concerns or discuss any matters relating to the audit work and the cooperation of the Investment the scope of the annual audit and agreement with the Manager and others in providing any information and the external auditors of the key areas of focus: quality of that information including the timeliness in the reports from the external auditors concerning their responding to audit requests.
audit of the annual financial statements of the Company: As part of the year end audit the Committee considered the performance of the external auditors and the level the level of fees paid to the auditors bearing in mind of fees charged for their services: the nature of the audit and the quality of services the appropriateness and any changes to the accounting previously received.
policies of the Company including any judgements required by such policies and the reasonableness of such: Consideration of the Annual Report the financial disclosures contained in the annual report and Financial Statements and semi-annual report to shareholders: The Committee performed this role through monitoring the policy for non-audit services which may be the integrity of the financial statements of the Company provided by the auditors in line with the FRC guidance: and the system of accounting to ensure compliance with the extent of the non-audit services, the quality of such relevant and appropriate accounting standards.
The work and the fees: scope of the audit was agreed in advance with a focus on areas of audit risk and the appropriate level of audit the independence and objectivity of the external auditors: materiality.
The auditors reported on the results of the the appointment of the auditors and the need to put the audit work to the Committee and highlighted any issue audit out for tender: which the audit work had discovered or the Committee the Risk Map covering the identification of new risks, had previously identified as significant or material in the adjustments to existing risks and the mitigation and context of the financial statements.
controls in place to manage the principle risks: Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 71 3 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued Significant Matters in Relation to the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 In addition to the matters considered by the Committee in forming its opinions on Going Concern and longer-term viability described below and in concluding that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, the Committee also considered the following matters in relation to the financial statements: Significant matter How the issue was addressed Valuation, existence and ownership The valuation is carried out in accordance with the accounting policy described of investments in note 1.
The Depository has reported on its work and safe keeping of the companys investments.
Compliance with S1158 of the Consideration of compliance with the requirements of investment trust status Corporation Tax Act 2010 is carried out at each board meeting throughout the year There were no adverse matters brought to the Audit Committees attention in respect of the 2015 audit, which were material or significant or which should be brought to shareholders attention.
Conclusions in Respect of the Annual Consideration of the Semi-Annual Report Report and Financial Statements and Financial Statements The production and the audit of the Companys Annual The Committee considered and reviewed the semi-annual Report and Financial Statements is a comprehensive report and financial statements which are not audited or process requiring input from a number of different reviewed by the external auditors to ensure that they contributors.
In order to reach a conclusion that the reflected the accounting policies used in the annual Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, the financial statements.
Board has requested that the Committee advise on whether it considers these criteria satisfied.
In so doing Non-Audit Work the Committee has given consideration to the following: The Audit Committee has discussed the specific non-audit activities provided by the auditors to ensure that none of the comprehensive control framework over the these services would put the auditor in the position of production of the Annual Report, including the auditing their own work.
The Committee has also carried verification processes in place to deal with the out a review of the non-audit services to satisfy itself that factual content: these are provided within the policy and have been extensive levels of review are undertaken in the delivered in an efficient and cost effective way.
The Audit production process, by the Investment Manager Committee believes the objectivity and independence of and the Committee: and the auditors is maintained, notwithstanding that nona clean audit report from the auditors confirming audit work may be undertaken.
their work and their views on effectiveness of The Audit Committees policy on the provision of noninternal control.
audit services by the auditors is to ensure that there is a As a result of the work performed, the Committee has clear separation of audit work and non-audit work and concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended that the cost of any non-audit work is justified and is not 30April 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and disproportionate to the audit fees to the extent that the understandable and provides the information necessary independence of the auditors would be compromised.
for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, and it has reported on these findings to the Board.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 72 The Committee reviewed the non-audit work and The Committee having considered the above factors considered that PwC was an appropriate provider as consider it appropriate to recommend to the Board and this work related to the on-going VAT reclaim, which shareholders that PwC be reappointed as auditors at the was launched as a class action by PwC, recovery of AGM.
PwC have agreed to offer themselves for withholding taxes on certain overseas investments reappointment as auditors in accordance with section and the provision of IXBRL tagging.
487 2 of the Companies Act 2006 and a resolution requesting approval of their reappointment and to These non-audit services are provided by the London and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration Newcastle offices of PwC while the audit work is carried will be presented at the AGM.
out by the Edinburgh office of PwC.
The fees paid for the taxation advice services amounted to 4,000 2014: 6,000.
Overview of Risk The Board has ultimate responsibility for the The fees paid to PwC in respect of the audit of the management of risk throughout the Company and has annual financial statements amounted to 30,000 asked the Audit Committee to assist in maintaining an 2014: 30,000. effective Internal Control environment.
The Committee does not consider the provision of this The Company has a long established Risk Map which seeks non-audit work to the Company affects the independence to identify, monitor and control principle risks as far as of the auditors.
Over the year the Audit Committee has undertaken a review of the Risk Map used by the Company Appointment of Auditors and Tenure to identify the principle risks facing the business and The Committee also considers by way of meetings and reviewed each risk as to it likelihood and impact.
The reports, the appointment, remuneration and work of Committee also robustly considered the mitigating factors the auditors.
and controls to reduce the impact of such risks as described on pages 51 to 53.
This process which was active PwC have provided audit services to the Group from its throughout the year and permits the Risk Map to be incorporation in 1996 to date.
The Audit Committee is monitored and kept relevant to reflect changes.
aware that the European Union has proposed changes which will substantially change the statutory audit of As part of the year end processes the Audit Committee public interest enterprises which includes UK listed also undertook a review of the effectiveness of the system companies on regulated financial markets.
These of internal controls taking into account any issues that changes are in addition to guidance issued by the had arisen during the course of the year.
Representatives Financial Reporting Council and the findings of the UK of the Investment Manager reported to the Committee on Competition Commission.
the Internal controls operated by the Investment Manager and it also received internal control reports from other The Audit Committee has kept this matter under review key suppliers on the quality and effectiveness of the at their meetings and has concluded that as the current services provided to the Company.
The annual review of audit partner is required to rotate off the audit in 2017 the Risk Map and the effectiveness of the system of and PwC could not continue in their role as auditors internal controls, taking into account any issues was after 2020 that the audit should be put out for tender to conducted by the Audit Committee assisted by the appoint new auditors from the conclusion of the 2017 Investment Manager as part of the year end process for audit to align with the rotation of the current PwC audit the preparation of the annual report.
The Audit Committee will conduct the tender breach of the controls where the Investment Manager process during 2016. failed to ensure the voting rights of the investments held There are no contractual obligations restricting the in the portfolio were exercised which is noted on page 49. choice of external auditor.
There were no other issues which arose during the course of the year ended 30 April 2015 and up to the date of this report which were considered significant.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 73 3 Directors Report A Au ud dit it C Comm ommit itt te ee e R Re ep por ort t c co on ntin tinu ue ed d The Audit Committee will actively continue to monitor the the performance of the Company, its peers and system of internal controls through the regular review of competitors, and views garnered from shareholders via the Risk Map and controls in order to provide assurance the Investment Manager and corporate stock broker on that they operate as intended.
any dissatisfaction with the Company that might led to a vote against the continuation resolution: and The Audit Committee has also discussed with the the factors impacting the forthcoming year as set out Investment Manager their anti-bribery policy and the in the Strategic Review Section, Comprising the controls and monitoring operated by the Investment Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Manager to implement their policy across the main Report and the Strategic Report.
contractors which supply goods and services to the Investment Manager and the Company.
The financial position of the Company and its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Strategic Report The Audit Committee has also considered the policy and and the Financial Statements.
Note 29 to the Financial controls used by the Investment Manager surrounding Statements includes the Companys policies and process the use of brokerage commissions generated from for managing its capital: its financial risk management transactions in the Companys portfolio and the obtaining objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging of best execution on all transactions including any foreign activities.
Exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are exchange transactions.
Going Concern and Longer-Term Viability In light of the information provided to the Committee and The Audit Committee at the request of the Board has the assessment of the financial position of the Company the considered the ability of the Company to adopt the going Committee has recommended that a going concern basis concern basis for the preparation of the financial should be adopted by the Board for the preparation of the statements.
The Committee has considered the financial financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2015. position of the Company, its cash flows and it liquidity position.
The Committee has also considered in making Longer-Term Viability its assessment any material uncertainties and events that The Board has also asked the Audit Committee to might cast significant doubt upon the Companys ability address the new requirement that a longer-term viability to continue as a going concern.
statement be provided to shareholders.
This statement should take account of the Companys current position The Audit Committee has considered: and the principle risks as set out on page 51 to 53 so that the Board may state that they have a reasonable the ability of the Company to liquidate its portfolio: expectation that the Company will be able to continue the level of budgeted expenses and the exposure to in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over currency and credit risk: the period of their assessment.
the fact that the Company faces a continuation vote at the AGM in September 2015 but notes that under the To provide this assessment The Audit Committee has AIC SORP guidance that where shareholders have the considered the Companys financial position as described opportunity to vote in favour or against a company above to liquidate its portfolio and meet its expenses as continuing in existence it will normally be the case that they fall due: shareholders will have to vote in favour of a liquidation before it can occur.
It follows that, even if an the portfolio comprises of investments traded on Investment Company is approaching a wind-up or major international stock exchanges, there is a spread continuation vote, and where shareholders have yet to of investments by size of company.
The current vote on the issue, it will usually be more appropriate portfolio could be liquidated to the extent of 99% within for the Financial Statements to be prepared on a going 7 trading days and there is no expectation that the concern basis whilst making the material uncertainties nature of the investments held within the portfolio disclosures set out in paragraph 3.9 of FRS 102: and will be materially different in future: that adoption of a non-going concern basis is expected to be a rare event: Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 74 the expenses of the Company are predictable and modest in comparison with the assets and there are no capital commitments foreseen which would alter that position: the Company has no employees except for the Nonexecutive Directors and consequently does not have redundancy or other employment related liabilities or responsibilities.
The Audit Committee as well as considering the principle risks on pages 51 to 53 and the financial position of the Company as set out above, has also considered the following assumptions in considering the longer-term viability: it is reasonable to believe that the Company will pass the continue vote in September 2015, as explained above.
The next continuation vote is in 2020 and it is not possible to predict the outcome of a vote so far in advance: technology will continue to be an investable sector of the international stock markets and that investors will still wish to have an exposure to such investments: closed ended investment trusts will continue to be wanted by investors: regulation will not increase to a level that makes the running of the Company uneconomical in comparison to other competitive products: the performance of the fund will continue to be satisfactory and should performance be less than the Board deem acceptable it has appropriate powers to replace the Investment Manager.
In light of these considerations the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that a statement on the Companys longer-term prospects to continue its operations and meet its expenses and liabilities as they fall due over the next 5 years is reasonable.
David Gamble Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 July 2015 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 75
