102 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Audit committee and auditor Audit committee Members Attendees by invitation Alison Halsey Chairman Manjit Wolstenholme Malcolm Le May Peter Crook Stuart Sinclair Andrew Fisher Rob Anderson Gary Thompson Group Financial Controller David Mortlock Head of Group Annual statement by the chairman Internal Audit of theauditcommittee Deloitte LLP External Auditor I am delighted to be presenting the audit Secretary committee report to you as a separate Ken Mullen report in accordance with the FRCs Guidance and theFinancial Reporting Labs , aftercompleting afullyear as the chairman ofthe auditcommittee.
Through regular reporting to the board, the audit This report summarises the activities of the committee provides assurance on the quality and audit committee and its key responsibilities and effectiveness of the groups system of internal for the first time, confirms compliance with the controls and the long-term soundness of thegroup.
Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Alison Halsey Services Order.
Audit committee chairman Judgement is applied as to the appropriate Considered the findings within the report Update on 2015 activities point at which receivables are impaired in light of current trading performance and During the year, the committee continued and whether past payment performance expected future performance: and to monitor the integrity of the financial provides a reasonable guide as to the Considered the work performed by statements of the group including, in collectability of the current receivables the group internal audit function on particular, the annual and half-yearly reports book.
Accordingly, this is a primary source of information technology controls and and the interim management statements.
audit effort for the groups external auditor, operational controls such as cash Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
collections, credit management and Significant issues and areas In order to assess the appropriateness arrears management.
ofjudgement considered by of the judgements applied, management theauditcommittee produce a detailed report for both the audit Impairment of receivables at committee and the external auditor setting The following significant issues and areas Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn out: i the assumptions underpinning the of judgement were considered by the receivables valuation: and ii a scenario Receivables are impaired in Vanquis committee in relation to the 2015 Annual analysis comparing the receivables valuation Bank and Moneybarn when one or more Report and Financial Statements: with alternative valuations based upon contractual monthly payments have various forecasts of future cash collections, been missed.
The impairment provision is Impairment of receivables within including prior year performance, current calculated using models which use historical performance and budget performance.
payment performance to generate the the Consumer Credit Division CCD estimated amount and timing of future In assessing the adequacy of CCDs Receivables are impaired in CCD when cash flows from each arrears stage.
impairment provisions, the committee: the cumulative amount of two or more Management update the methodology contractual weekly payments have Reviewed managements report and monthly to ensure the assumptions been missed in the previous 12 weeks.
challenged management on the results accurately take account of the current Impairment is calculated using models and judgements used in the test: economic environment, product mix and whichuse historical payment performance to recent customer payment performance.
Considered the work performed by generate the estimated amount and timing of Deloitte on validating the data used in future cash flows from each arrears stage.
Judgement is applied on whether past thetesting performed by management and payment performance is a good indication their challenge of theassumptions used: of how a customer may pay in the future.
Governance 103 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 In assessing the reasonableness of Accordingly, this is a primary source of focus auditor without the executive directors or the impairment review of goodwill, for Deloitte during the audit process.
members of the senior management team the committee considered a detailed being present: In assessing the adequacy of Vanquis Banks paper produced by management on the and Moneybarns impairment provisions The meetings of the committee held to methodology adopted.
In addition, the the committee: review and consider the draft Annual committee also considered the work Report and Financial Statements in performed by Deloitte and their views on the Considered the work performed by advance of the final sign-off: and appropriateness of the assumptions used Deloitte on validating the data used and by management.
their challenge of the assumptions used The final sign-off process by the board by management: of directors.
Taxation Considered the findings in light of current This assessment was underpinned by trading performance and expected The group provides for tax liabilities based the following: future performance: on an assessment of the probability of such The key judgement papers prepared by liabilities falling due.
Judgement is applied Considered the work performed by management covering the impairment of to determine the quantum of such liabilities the group internal audit function on receivables in CCD, the annual impairment and the probability of them occurring.
information technology controls and review of goodwill and going concern which The committee considers managements operational controls such as cash were carefully reviewed and challenged by assessment of the likelihood and quantum collections, credit management and the committee with the assistance of the of any potential liability and the views and arrears management: and external auditor who also fully analysed work performed by Deloitte in considering the papers as part of the year-end process: the reasonableness of the assessment Considered the review performed by the carried out.
Vanquis Bank audit committee on the Comprehensive guidance issued to all Vanquis Bank impairment provisions.
contributors involved in the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Fair, balanced and understandable Statements at all levels: Retirement benefit asset A specific area of focus, discussion and The fact that the risks reflect the issues oversight for the committee throughout 2015 The valuation of the retirement benefit which are of concern to the committee: has been the requirement to provide the asset is dependent upon a series of board with an assurance that the content of assumptions.
The key assumptions are the A verification process dealing with the the Annual Report and Financial Statements discount rate, inflation rates and mortality factual content of various aspects of the 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and rates used to calculate the present value of Annual Report and Financial Statements: understandable and provides the necessary future liabilities.
The comprehensive reviews undertaken information for shareholders to assess the Judgement is applied in formulating each at different levels in the group that aim to groups position and performance, business of the assumptions used in calculating the ensure consistency and overall balance: model and strategy.
The companys and In justifying this statement the committee external actuary, Willis Towers Watson, The comprehensive review by the senior considered the robust process which propose the appropriate assumptions and management team.
operated in creating the Annual Report and calculate the value of the retirement benefit Financial Statements in 2015 including: asset.
The committee considered the work performed by Deloitte on the valuation Internal audit The full and effective assessments by the and their views on the suitable ranges of divisions of any customer and conduct The group operates an in-house group assumptions based on their experience.
risks and the oversight of this by the risk internal audit function which is managed advisory committee: by the Head of Group Internal Audit with Annual impairment review specialist services provided by third-party The early involvement of the committee in ofgoodwill consultants where necessary.
The group the preparation of the Annual Report and internal audit function also reports to Financial Statements which enabled it to In accordance with IFRS 3 Business the committee which helps to ensure provide input into the overall messages Combinations, the goodwill of 71.2m arising the functions independence from group and tone: on acquisition of Moneybarn in August 2014 management.
The committee reviews regular is subject to an annual impairment review.
The input provided by divisional and group reports on the activity of this function and I The impairment review is conducted by senior management and the process also meet separately with the Head of Group comparing the discounted estimated future of review, evaluation and verification to Internal Audit on a quarterly basis.
cash flows of Moneybarn with the carrying ensure balance, accuracy and consistency: value of goodwill in the financial statements.
In 2015, a strategic review of the internal The reviews conducted by external audit resource across the group was Management apply judgement in: i deriving advisors appointed to advise on undertaken and it was agreed to create a the forecast cash flows of Moneybarn: and ii best practice: group internal audit function that would establishing the appropriate discount rate to encompass all divisions within the group The regular review of the group apply to the forecast cash flows.
and therefore provide a more consistent internal audit activity reports which are and balanced overview of the group to presented at committee meetings and the committee.
the opportunity to meet the external 104 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Audit committee and auditor continued In accordance with the Code, the external External auditor Non-audit work audit contract will be put out to tender at The committee considers the reappointment The company has a formal policy on the least every 10 years.
of the external auditor, including the rotation use of the external auditor for non-audit In accordance with best practice and of the audit partner, annually.
This policy is reviewed annually by guidance issued by the FRC, the committee an assessment of the independence of the the committee.
will continue to review the qualification, external auditor and an assessment of the The award of non-audit work to the external expertise, resources and independence of performance in the previous year.
This is auditor is managed in order to ensure that the external auditor and the effectiveness achieved primarily through a questionnaire the external auditor is able to conduct an of the audit process during the next and scorecard which is completed by key independent audit and is perceived to be financial year.
stakeholders involved in the annual and independent by the groups shareholders half-yearly audit process, including the heads The committee has adopted a policy on and other stakeholders.
of finance in each of the divisions.
The scores the appointment of staff from the external and results of the questionnaire are collated The performance of non-audit work by the auditor to positions within the various and shared with the external auditor and an external auditor is monitored and work group finance departments.
It grades action plan to address any areas of concern is awarded only when, by virtue of their appointments into four categories and identified is agreed.
knowledge, skills or experience, the external sets out the approvals required.
Neither a auditor is clearly to be preferred over partner of the audit firm who has acted as The external auditor is required to rotate alternative suppliers.
engagement partner, the quality review the audit partner responsible for the group partner, other key audit partners or partners audit every five years.
The current lead audit The group maintains an active relationship in the chain of command, nor a senior partner has been in place for four years.
with at least three other professional member of the audit engagement team, The group carried out a rigorous audit tender advisors.
The nature and cost of all nonmay be employed as group Finance Director, in June 2012 and as a result of the tender, audit work awarded to the groups external group Financial Controller or a divisional Deloitte were appointed as the groups auditor for the period since the last meeting finance director.
and for the year to date is reported at each meeting of the committee, together with an At each of its meetings, the committee has The committee will continue to assess the explanation as to why the external auditor a separate session with the external auditor performance of the external auditor on an was the preferred supplier.
without any executive director or employee ongoing basis to ensure that it is satisfied of the group being present.
This gives with the quality of the services provided.
No information technology, remuneration, members of the committee the opportunity As part of that process, it has agreed to recruitment, valuation or general consultancy to raise any issues, including any issues on recommend to the board the reappointment work may be awarded to the external auditor the interim and final results of the group, of Deloitte as auditor and a resolution to this without my prior written approval and directly with the external auditor.
effect will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
such approval is only given in exceptional Composition of the committee The other members of the committee The accounting and financial reporting Assisting the board in assessing the during 2015, Rob Anderson, Malcolm Le May processes, along with the roles and companys ongoing viability, the basis of and Stuart Sinclair, all have a wide range of effectiveness of both the group internal theassessment and the period of time business and financial experience which is audit function and the external auditor.
covered: evidenced by their biographical summaries The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and Reviewing and monitoring the external on pages 88 and 89.
Both Malcolm and approving the Annual Report and Financial auditors independence and objectivity I have considerable recent and relevant Statements remains with the board.
andthe effectiveness of the audit process: business and financial experience as evidenced by our biographical details which Approving the group internal audit plan Specific are also setout on these pages.
annually: The committee is also specifically responsible for: Keeping under review the effectiveness The role of the committee of the groups systems of internal control All matters relating to the appointment and risk management by considering General and reappointment of the external group internal audit activity reports at auditor, including the audit engagement The primary function of the committee is each meeting and reporting to the board partner, and recommending to the to assist the board in fulfilling its oversight on a regular basis.
The committee also board all external auditor appointments responsibilities by monitoring the integrity reviewed and approved the statement and reappointments: of the financial statements of the group set out on pages100 and 101 concerning and other financial information before The external auditors remuneration internal controls and risk management: publication and reviewing the significant and the policy on the supply of nonand financial reporting judgements contained audit services to the company by in them.
In addition, the committee Reviewing and approving the register theexternal auditor: also reviews: of benefits offered to directors in Initiation and oversight of any tender accordance with the companys code The systems of internal financial, process in relation to the appointment ofpractice on benefits.
operational and compliance controls on ofan external auditor: a continuing basis, and the arrangements and procedures in place to deal with Negotiation of the scope and fee for whistleblowing, fraud and bribery: and the audit: Governance 105 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 circumstances.
I am required to approve in advance any single award of non-audit Audit committee key items in 2015 work with an aggregate cost of 250,000 or Annual Report and Financial Statements more.
The external auditor may not perform Review of the CCD receivables valuation carried out by management.
External specialist Review and approval of the going concern paper which confirmed it was appropriate to resource for the group internal audit function prepare the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December is provided by KPMG LLP.
Where Deloitte has been used in 2015 Review of the calculation of goodwill and intangible assets on the acquisition for non-audit work under the terms of ofMoneybarn.
this policy, prior approval was obtained Review of full year results and the form and content of the draft Annual Report and from the committee.
On each occasion Financial Statements.
the committee sought confirmation that Discussion with the external auditor without any executive director or employee Deloittes objectivity and independence beingpresent.
A paper requesting Review of the preliminary results for the year ended 31 December 2014. approval was presented to the committee Review of the statement on internal controls.
which set out details of Deloittes internal Recommendation to the board regarding reappointment of the external auditor.
controls which have been designed to Review of: ensure independence and objectivity The internal audit activity report: and a confirmation that Deloitte had the A paper confirming the independence of the external auditor: knowledge, skills and experience to carry out A schedule of audit and non-audit fees paid to the external auditor for the financial year: the work in preference to any other supplier.
A fraud report for the three month period ended 31 December 2014: An external report on the group wide internal audit function: and During the year, the committee regularly The annual opinion on risk management and internal control effectiveness prepared considered a schedule of audit and nonbythe group internal audit function.
audit work carried out by Deloitte.
This fell Review of Interim Results broadly into four categories: fees payable Review of CCD receivables valuation.
for the audit of the parent company and JUL Review of interim results.
consolidated financial statements: audit Review and approval of the going concern paper which confirmed it was appropriate of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to to prepare the interim results for the six months ended 30 June 2015 on a going legislation: other services pursuant concernbasis.
to legislation: and tax services.
Review of the report from the external auditor.
Fees paid to Deloitte for non-audit work Review of the interim results announcement.
during the year amounted to 438,000 Discussion with the external auditor without any executive director or employee 2014: 823,000 comprising 65,000 for the beingpresent.
group interim review, 46,000 for the review Review of: of profits for regulatory reporting purposes, An external report on the group internal audit function and associated actions 243,000 for other projects, 70,000 for including a review of the status of the transition of the Vanquis Bank internal audit advice on retail bonds and 14,000 for function to the group internal audit function: agreed upon procedures work throughout The internal audit activity report: the year.
The effectiveness of the external auditor: and A schedule of fees paid to the external auditor.
Review and approval of a contract between the company and Vanquis Bank for the Effectiveness provision ofinternal audit services by the group internal audit function.
The committee formally considered its Review of: performance and effectiveness in 2015.
The external auditors planning report for the forthcoming year end: This was undertaken as part of the internal OCT A schedule of fees paid to the external auditor: and board and committee evaluation process.
The internal audit activity report.
Each director was able to comment and Discussion with the external auditor without any executive director or employee rate various aspects of the committees beingpresent.
role by responding to a series of questions Review and approval of the 2016 internal audit plan.
relating to the performance of the committee contained in the internal questionnaire.
Review of: On the basis of the evaluation undertaken, The internal audit activity report: DEC the overall view was that the committee was The annual report on external whistleblowing activity: operating efficiently and effectively and no The register of benefits received by directors: actions were identified.
The committees performance and effectiveness: and The report from the Vanquis Bank audit committee chairman.
I will be available at the AGM in May 2016 Review and approval of the updated terms of reference for the committee.
to answer questions on the work of Review and approval in principle of the group internal audit charter.
Update on the proposed themes for the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Alison Halsey Consideration of the audit update report from the external auditor.
Audit committee chairman Meeting with the external auditor without any executive director or employee 23 February 2016 beingpresent.
