90 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Leadership Specific key decisions and matters This report looks at the board and its have been reserved for approval members, their role, their performance I have structured by the board and are set out in its and their oversight.
It also looks at terms of reference.
These include: the director induction, succession planning, the board in terms of establishment of, and changes to, the group independence and effectiveness.
strategy: determination of interim and An effectiveboard is pivotal to the leadership, sIze and recommendation of final dividends having companyslong-term success and viability.
considered the available distributable The board is ultimately responsible for the use of committees reserves and regulatory capital requirements business strategy and financial soundness of the group: approval of all major of the group and for establishing a transactions: approval of the group budget to enable it to governance structure and practices which and financial results: approval of the Vanquis facilitate effective decision making and Bank controls required by the PRA safety and effectively carry out good governance.
soundness objectives: and the annual review of the effectiveness of the groups system of The board sets the tone at the top and its oversight role and internal controls.
oversees managements role in fostering and maintaining a sound corporate and risk The board reviews the terms of reference other responsibilIties.
This includes clearly laying out the for itself and its committees annually.
It last key responsibilities and authorities of the Manjit Wolstenholme updated its terms of reference and those board itself and of senior management and Chairman of its committees in January 2015.
The full of those responsible for the risk management formal schedule of matters reserved to and control functions.
the board and each of its committees can be found on the groups website at The board also plays a key role in establishing www.
the groups culture and values and in ensuring there is not excessive risk taking To assist the board in carrying out its functions within the group.
The structure of the group and to ensure that there is independent is driven by both top down board leadership oversight of internal controls and risk and bottom up management involvement management, the board delegates certain and the board continually assesses whether functions to its five principal committees as the senior managements collective shown in the diagram below.
Membership of knowledge and expertise remain appropriate these committees consists primarily of the given the nature of the business and the independent non-executive directors and, in groups risk profile.
some cases, the Chairman, with the exception of the executive committee which consists of the two executive directors only.
Governance framework Audit committee Group board See pages 102 to 105 for more information.
Risk advisory committee See pages 99 to 101 for more information.
Executive committee Comprises the two executive Remuneration committee directors and is chaired by the See pages 121 to 122 for Chief Executive.
deals with matters relating tothegeneral running of the group.
Nomination committee See pages 106 to 107 for more information.
Governance 91 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The chairman of each board committee In 2015, the Director of Corporate Affairs, reports to the board on the matters the managing directors and commercial discussed at each committee meeting.
directors of Vanquis Bank and the Consumer Credit Division CCD, the Operations Greater involvement in evaluating and Director of the home credit business of CCD promoting a strong risk culture in the and the Finance Director of Vanquis Bank organisation is central to the creation also attended and were involved in all the of long-term shareholder value and is discussions.
For the first time, the Managing overseen by the risk advisory committee Director, Commercial Director andFinance on behalf of the board.
The risk advisory Director of Moneybarn were also in committee considers the groups risk attendance.
The agenda included: appetite, the nature and extent of the risks facing the group, including the framework A facilitated discussion on the general to mitigate such risks and notifies the macro-economic environment and the board of changes to the status and control non-standard consumer credit market The right team of risks.
The committee has continued to inwhich the group operates: take measures during 2015 to improve risk The board held eight meetings in 2015.
A facilitated discussion on the implications governance, including the commissioning of Individual director attendance is set out of the UK General Election result in so detailed reviews on conduct matters such as inthe table below.
far as it has an effect on the operation how the divisions are addressing the needs ofthe group: The board has overall responsibility for of vulnerable consumers.
the groups governance framework, for A presentation and discussion on what In addition, the group has detailed corporate corporate culture and for the groups younger generations want and expect policies which are explained on page 58 strategic objectives, including approving and oftheir employers and careers: of this report.
On a day-to-day basis, the overseeing managements implementation.
divisions and the corporate office team have As part of that process and, as in previous A review of the overall group strategy responsibility for the implementation of the years, an annual two-day corporate planning including a consideration of group corporate policies and the group executive conference CPC was held off-site to review strategic choices: committee is responsible for the general and develop the groups strategy.
The CPC Consideration of a range of potential oversight of this process.
is attended by all board members, the acquisition targets: GeneralCounsel and Company Secretary, the Detailed reports on the activities of the risk Director of Corporate Strategy and Risk and Discussion on the strategic options for advisory committee, audit committee and other members of the senior management thefuture development of the home credit nomination committee are set out in this team where appropriate.
business of CCD: and report on pages 99, 102 and 106 respectively.
Discussion on the future strategic options Details of the work of the remuneration for the development of Vanquis Bank.
committee together with the Annual Statement from the remuneration committee chairman, the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration, are set out inthe directors remuneration report, on pages 113 to 132.
Attendance at board and committee meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk advisory Percentage Board committee committee committee committee attended Total number of meetings in 2015 8 4 3 6 4 Manjit Wolstenholme 8 3 4 100% Peter Crook 8 100% Andrew Fisher 8 100% Malcolm Le May 8 4 3 6 4 100% Rob Anderson 8 4 3 6 4 100% Alison Halsey 8 4 3 6 4 100% Stuart Sinclair 7 3 2 4 4 80% 92 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Leadership continued Board composition Key board discussions and actions in 2015 Consideration of the future of the Vanquis Bank Polish pilot and a decision to commence JAN a process toexit from the Polish market.
Review and approval of a revised investment strategy for the groups defined benefit pension scheme.
Presentation by the group Head of Tax on current issues and the group tax policy.
Review of the groups talent for succession planning purposes.
FEB Review of the 2014 Annual Report andFinancial Statements.
Executive director Review, update and approval of the 2,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Non-executive director NoteProgramme.
Acceptance of the recommendation from Company Secretary the nomination committee to extend Rob Andersons term of office to 30 March 2018.
The board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors, four independent Review of non-executive directors fees.
non-executive directors and the Company Secretary.
Their responsibilities Review of a potential acquisition opportunity.
are summarised in the table on page 93.
The names of the directors and the Review and approval of non-executive MAY Company Secretary together with their full biographical details, including the appointments to divisional boards.
skills and experience they each bring to the board, can be found on pages 88 Further review of the groups talent forsuccession planning purposes.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the group as Establishment of a group internal audit the Chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the board and strategy and creation of an expanded for its effective functioning, whilst the Chief Executive manages and leads centralised group function.
thebusinesses through their senior management teams.
Review of the Interim ManagementStatement.
Consideration of a potential acquisition target At each main meeting and review and approval of aterm sheet.
JUN Review and approval of the2015 Discussion: budgetupdate.
Chief Executives report Consideration and approval of the draft Acquisition opportunities output of the CPC.
Trading results and key performance indicators KPIs Approval of the groups internal capital Finance Directors report adequacy assessment process ICAAP.
JUL Management accounts and financial commentary Consideration of a potential acquisition target.
Divisional operational reports Approval of the Interim Report.
Treasury matters Approval of two external appointments Legal, company secretarial and regulatory matters requested by the Chairman.
SEP Board committee matters Investor relations and shareholder feedback Acceptance of the recommendation from Corporate affairs the nomination committee to extendStuart OCT Sinclairs term of officeto31October 2018. Review: Review and approval of new lease terms for Minutes of previous meetings the Vanquis Bank contact centre in Chatham.
Minutes of the meetings of the executive committee Approval of the Interim Management Statement.
Implementation of actions agreed at previous meetings Review of the internal board evaluation.
Review of non-executive directors fees DEC andindependence.
Review and approval of the 2016 budget Sector experience Tenure andprofit plan 20162020.
1: 03 years 2 1 Financial services 72% 2 Retail 14% 2: 36 years 2 3 Other 14% 3: 6 years 3 3 1 2 3 1 2 Governance 93 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Roles The Chairman Chairs the board, the nomination committee and the AGM.
Manjit Wolstenholme is also a non-executive director of Future plc, The Unite Group plc, CALA Group Holdings Sets the board meeting agendas with the Chief Executive and Company Limited and CMC Markets plc.
These appointments Secretary to ensure thatthey are aligned with strategic objectives and involve no more than one and a half days work per that the board devotes its time and attention to the right matters.
week and there have been no material changes in her Encourages and promotes critical discussion and ensures dissenting other commitments since 1 January 2016.
She dedicates views can be freely expressed and discussed within the decision sufficient time to the exercise of her responsibilities.
Ensures board decisions are taken on a sound and well-informed basis.
Facilitates and encourages active engagement and appropriate challenge by all directors.
Ensures the board receives timely and relevant information and is kept advised of key developments.
The Chief Executive Responsible for the day-to-day management, leadership and direction Peter Crook also chairs the divisional boards of CCD ofthe group and the executive management team in accordance with and Moneybarn, and until 29 January 2016, chaired thestrategy and long-term objectives approved by the board.
Chairs the executive committee and makes decisions on matters affecting the operation, performance and strategy of the groups businesses, with the exception of those matters reserved to the board.
Responsible for overseeing the delivery of the corporate responsibility agenda ofthe group.
Executive Responsible for all matters affecting the performance of the group.
Peter Crook and Andrew Fisher comprise the executive directors committee which deals with matters relating to the Responsible for implementation of strategy, policies, budgets and the running of the group other than those reserved to the financial performance of the group in a manner consistent with the board and the other committees.
business strategy, risk appetite and other procedures approved by theboard.
Provide specialist knowledge and experience to the board.
Responsible for the successful leadership and management oftheriskand finance functions across the group.
Non-executive Provide independent and constructive challenge.
The non-executive directors have a range of recent and directors relevant financial services, corporate governance and Provide governance through participation in and chairmanship retail consumer experience as detailed on pages 88 oftheboard committees.
Provide an external focus to the boards discussions, particularly They are appointed for fixed periods of three years, withregard to strategy and business development.
subject to confirmation by shareholders.
This threeMonitor and review the performance of the executive directors.
year period may be extended for a further three years Bring experience and knowledge from other sectors which is of and, in exceptional cases, further extended, subject relevance to the group.
to annual reappointment by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the companys registered office or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Stuart Sinclairs term of appointment has been extended for an additional three years, subject toshareholder approval at the 2016 AGM.
Senior Independent Is available for shareholders if they have any concerns which contact Malcolm Le May assumed the role of SID on 1 January Director SID through the normal channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
He was selected for this role on account of his extensive experience in the financial services sector Acts as a sounding board for the other directors and confidant for and his wide ranging public company and corporate theChairman.
Is a conduit, as required, for the views of the other non-executive directors on the performance of the Chairman.
Conducts the Chairmans annual performance evaluation.
Company Responsible to the board.
All directors are able to consult with Ken Mullen as Secretary theCompany Secretary, who is also secretary to all Ensures the information sent to the board is fit for purpose and ofthe board committees.
There is also a formal procedure by which any director Provides comprehensive practical legal support and guidance may take independent professional advice relating todirectors, both as individuals and collectively.
to the performance of any aspect of their duties at Provides support for the non-executive directors in maintaining the companys expense, which is facilitated by the thehighest standards of probity and corporate governance.
Responsible for communicating with shareholders, as appropriate, The appointment and removal of the Company andensuring that due regard is paid to their interests.
Secretary is a matter for the board.
