Governance 99 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Risk advisory committee Risk advisory committee Members Attendees by invitation Stuart Sinclair Chairman Peter Crook Alison Halsey Andrew Fisher Malcolm Le May David Mortlock Head of Group Internal Audit Manjit Wolstenholme David Merrett Rob Anderson Director of Corporate Strategy Accountability and Risk As part of the overall corporate governance framework, The managing director and chief risk officer of each division the board has ultimate responsibility for overseeing a also attend meetings of the strong risk governance framework and determining committee to discuss customer the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to and conduct risk and related governance issues.
accept to achieve its strategic objectives.
The board is also responsible for maintaining a sound system of risk Secretary management and internal controls, in accordance with Ken Mullen the Code.
The risk advisory committee assists the board by taking an active role in defining risk appetite and monitoring the risk management and internal control systems Risks are identified, monitored and controlled on an across the group.
ongoing group wide and individual divisional basis.
Thesophistication of the groups risk management and internal control infrastructure needs to keep pace with changes to the groups risk profile, to the external risk landscape and tothe requirements ofthe regulatory environment.
Stuart Sinclair Risk advisory committee chairman Governance in action Risk management The committee also recommends an the committee carried out a review of the A substantial number of changes were overall groupcustomer and conduct risk processes, policies and procedures in made to the committee during 2014, which appetite, culture and tone for approval by each of the divisions in relation to the FCA were reported in last years Annual Report the board.
This review was to ensure not only that During 2015, the committee assumed The time allocated for committee meetings there was compliance with the FCA responsibility for the review of the groups has been significantly extended to allow requirements and that consumers were management of customer and conduct a full review to be undertaken of each being treated with the appropriate level risk and related governance, as part of divisions conduct risk framework and their of care, but also to ensure that the FCA its wider remit to review and monitor conduct risk governance policies.
requirements on vulnerable consumers risk management across the group.
had been considered in the context of During 2015, the committee received The principal purpose of the committee in the current statutory framework in the regular reports from the managing director this regard is to monitor the effectiveness of UK inrelation to data protection, equality, and the chief risk officer of each division the divisions in establishing and maintaining privacy and discrimination.
on: 1 how customer and conduct risks frameworks, policies and procedures to were being managed within divisional and identify and manage customer and conduct Further details on the review of the group appetite: 2 on current or emerging risk and related governance.
This ensures vulnerable consumer processes, policies conduct risk issues that the board and that customers needs are at the heart of and procedures in each of the divisions are committee should be aware of: and 3 on divisional and group objectives and that set out on page 59 of the strategic report.
the key conduct risk issues that have been there is a fair deal between the divisions and discussed at divisional level.
100 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Risk advisory committee continued management and related governance and Role and responsibilities of customer outcomes: An effective risk theriskadvisory committee Undertook the activities set out in the The risk advisory committees principal governance framework calendar on page 101: purposes are to recommend an overall customer and conduct risk appetite, Recalibrated the overall group risk appetite requires robust culture and tone for approval by the board to the2015 budget: and and to monitor the effectiveness of the Updated the corporate policy on communication within divisions in establishing and maintaining risk management.
risk management frameworks, policies the group about and procedures.
The group is exposed to changing regulatory requirements as its activities In addition to the responsibilities mentioned risk, both across change and develop.
Consequently, the above, the committee is also responsible for: committee received regular updates of Carrying out a robust assessment of the known and anticipated regulatory changes the orgAnisation And principal risks facing the group, including and challenged managements approach those that would threaten its business to preparing for and implementing through reporting model, future performance, solvency or new requirements.
A description of the principal to the board and risks and the actions taken to manage or Statement on internal controls mitigate those risks are set out in detail on senior management.
pages 57 to 65 of the strategic report: Our risk management framework is firmly embedded within our management and Stuart Sinclair Reviewing the groups capability to governance processes, and incorporates the Risk advisory committee chairman identify and manage new risk types, and process detailed in the diagram on page 58. keeping under review the effectiveness This risk management framework has been of the groups internal control and risk in operation throughout 2015 and continues management systems in conjunction with to operate up to the date of approval of this the audit committee: annual report.
This framework is the process by which group-wide compliance with laws Reviewing the groups identification and regulations, the reliability of the financial of current and forward-looking reporting process including in relation to risk exposures: the preparation of consolidated accounts Reviewing the groups business and the effectiveness and efficiency of continuity plans: operations are reviewed.
The framework assists in the identification, evaluation and Notifying the board of any changes in the management of principal risks as required by status and control of risks: and the Code and is designed to manage rather Reviewing and approving the ICAAP stress than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve testing and capital allocation approach for business objectives.
The board believes submission to the board for approval.
the framework provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Update on 2015 activities The board provides oversight to help ensure During 2015, the risk advisory committee: that the group and its divisions maintain Updated its terms of reference to reflect sound internal control and risk management its responsibilities in relation to customer systems.
Through the risk advisory and conduct risk and related governance committee, it reviews the assessment of risks and to reflect the attendance of the and the risk management frameworks.
managing directors and chief risk officers A consistently applied method is used at for the discussion on these matters at divisional and group level to identify the key committee meetings: risks that could have a significant impact Assisted Moneybarn in developing a risk on the ability of the group to achieve its register, risk profile and supporting risk objectives.
Risk owners within the divisions dashboards in a format consistent with and the corporate office are identified and theother divisions within the group: given responsibility for ensuring actions are implemented with appropriate review Commissioned a detailed IT review across dates.
The risk registers are reviewed the CCD and Vanquis Bank divisions and by the risk advisory group and updated discussed the output: at least quarterly.
The risk advisory Updated the group risk management committee is responsible for monitoring framework and group risk appetite the key metrics identified by the divisions to include customer and conduct risk and the group in the management of risk and ensures in particular that customer Governance 101 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 outcomes remain central to the groups risk management programme.
Risk advisory committee key items in 2015 The board is satisfied that the groups risk At each meeting, the committee: management and internal control systems, Reviewed the key group risks.
including in particular the financial reporting processes, were effective throughout 2015 Reviewed and discussed the financial risk review.
and up to 23 February 2016 and continue to Reviewed the overall risk management status of the group.
The board does this through: 1 the risk advisory committee, which carries out Reviewed the risk appetite status across the group.
a robust assessment of the principal risks Reviewed the quarterly internal audit opinion on risk facing the group and 2 the audit committee, management reporting.
which reviews the work of the group internal audit function and the opinion issued by the Reviewed the divisional customer and conduct risk frameworks group internal audit function on risk and and appetite.
The audit committee actively monitors the risk management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
Considered and accepted updated terms of reference.
This annual review and ongoing monitoring JAN confirms that the internal control and risk Reviewed and approved the revised group risk appetite framework, management systems effectively support riskmanagement framework and riskprofile.
and manage the achievement of the overall Approved the changes to the CCD risk management framework.
group objectives and provide suitable protection of the groups assets, reputation Considered the internal board and committee evaluation.
A strong risk management Received a presentation on and discussed the IT risk review.
and control culture was identified across the group and areas where improvements could be made were identified.
An action plan has been established to ensure that the systems Reviewed the ICAAP approach and methodology and recommended and processes continue to evolve as the approval to the board.
MAY regulatory environment in which the group Requested a review be undertaken on the approach to vulnerable operates continues to change.
The board believes the process and the key elements of the internal control and risk management systems, including in particular Reviewed the ICAAP, including the Vanquis Bank recovery and resolution the financial reporting processes, are in plan and agreed to recommend approvalto the board.
JUL accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Discussed the output of the initial review report on Satsuma.
Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting the FRCs Guidance and the FCAs Disclosure and Reviewed an update on divisional risk management developments.
OCT Reviewed the output of the vulnerable consumers review carried out The group finance function establishes the byeach of the divisions.
process and timetable for financial reporting and consolidation activities and identifies and approves changes to accounting and financial reporting standards.
Further insight into the groups principal risks, and the management of these can be found on pages 57 to 65 of the strategic report.
Effectiveness The committee formally considered its effectiveness in 2015 at its meeting in January 2016.
On the basis of the internal board and committee evaluation undertaken, the overall view was that it was working effectively to fulfil its responsibilities and duties and no significant actions were identified.
