106 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Nomination committee Nomination committee Members Attendees by invitation Manjit Wolstenholme Peter Crook Chairman Secretary Alison Halsey Ken Mullen Malcolm Le May Rob Anderson Stuart Sinclair All the non-executive directors are members of the nomination committee which is chaired by Manjit Wolstenholme, the Chairman.
The Chief Executive attends all meetings by invitation.
The committee meets at least once a year.
Thecommittee intends to continue the development of its succession planning The nomination committee analyses the role and processes which, following the group talent responsibilities of the board members and the review carried out in 2015, will be extended to knowledge, experience and competence which include the creation of personal development therole requires.
The committee strives to ensure plans by the divisions and the corporate office the board is not dominated by any one individual for certain high potential individuals identified orgroup of individuals.
Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman the results of the board and committee committee to ensure this is achieved.
Role and responsibilities performance evaluation process.
In the case of non-executive directors, the Regularly reviews the structure, size and selection process is designed to ensure composition including skills, knowledge, there is independence of mind given the Nomination committee key items experience and diversity of the board, and specific responsibilities of the non-executive in 2015 makes recommendations to the board for directors on the board.
For more information any changes to its composition to ensure it about the boards composition, see page 92.
Reviewed the group senior management remains appropriately refreshed: succession plan and talent review The nomination committee and the group prepared by the Chief Executive: Fully considers the succession planning as a whole is committed to increasing requirements for directors and the senior diversity across all the group operations Recommended to the board the management team to ensure that succession and supporting the development and reappointment of Rob Anderson and is managed smoothly and effectively: promotion of talented individuals, regardless Stuart Sinclair as non-executive directors of gender, nationality or ethnic background.
of the board: and Keeps under review the leadership needs The board has been supportive of the of the group, with a view to ensuring it Requested that the Chief Executive ensure recommendations contained in Lord Davies remains competitive in the marketplace: that each division and the corporate office report Women on Boards for female board prepare a personal development plan Identifies and nominates to the representation to increase to 25% by the for those individuals identified as high board candidates who are assessed end of 2015 and I am pleased to report the potential individuals through the group as having sufficient time to devote board has had 29% female representation talent review.
to their prospective responsibilities since 2014. tofillboard vacancies: We remain committed to at least maintaining Diversity Evaluation of the balance of skills, this level of female representation in the knowledge, experience and diversity on The group recognises the importance of medium term, whilst ensuring that diversity the board before any appointments are diversity, including gender diversity, at all in its broadest sense remains a key feature made and the preparation of a description levels of the group, as well as at board level.
The board also notes the of the role and the capabilities required for The group believes that diversity amongst challenge in Lord Davies final report to a particular appointment.
The committee directors helps contribute towards a high aspire to 33% female representation on the considers candidates on merit and against performing and effective board.
The nomination committee objective criteria with due regard to the strives to recruit directors from different will, however, continue to recommend benefits of diversity, including gender: and backgrounds, with diverse experience, appointments to the board based on perspectives, personalities, skills and merit.
The board remains committed to Reviews and considers the performance knowledge and uses the nomination strengthening the pipeline of senior female and effectiveness of the committee through Governance 107 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 executives within the group and is satisfied the group who are capable and have appropriately balanced range of skills, that there are no barriers to women the potential to succeed the executive experience and technical ability so that succeeding at thehighest levels within directors and other members of the the group is well placed to achieve its the group.
senior management team in the short, objectives and long-term strategy in the new medium and long term.
We have previously reported that the group also monitors candidates externally to was also committed to achieving a target ensure that the board is continuously Policy on board appointments of 25% women within the wider senior refreshed and strengthened in any areas of management population by 2015 and we are The boards policy on other directorships is perceived weakness.
pleased to report that as at 31 December designed to ensure that all directors remain 2015, 30% of the groups senior management With a greater emphasis on developing able to discharge their responsibilities to are female.
internal candidates, the Chief Executive the company.
prepared a report on the talent within the Last year we reported that despite the The letters of appointment of the nongroup following the acquisition of Moneybarn progress that has been made, the committee executive directors state that any proposed which was reviewed by the board in February was conscious that the divisional boards appointment to the board of another and May 2015 and also by the committee in were considerably lacking in female company will require the prior approval of May 2015.
The report identified the potential representation.
The committee looked at this the board.
The companys policy is that a successors for senior management positions over the course of 2015 and will continue to non-executive director should have sufficient taking into account the groups policy on review this in 2016. time to fulfil his her duties to the company, diversity, the talent pool across the group including, where appropriate, chairing and areas where external recruitment may In support of our policy on diversity, we a committee.
The Chief Executive is in the will continue to operate in accordance with process of arranging for the divisions and the following principles and initiatives that The board will consider all requests for the corporate office to prepare personal promote gender and other forms of diversity permission to accept other directorships development plans for the high potential amongst the board and senior management: carefully, subject to the following principles: individuals who have been identified through We will consider candidates for the process for review by the committee A non-executive director would not be appointment as non-executive directors in 2016. expected to hold more than four other from a wider pool, including those with little material non-executive directorships: and or no listed company board experience: Board composition If a non-executive director holds an We will only engage executive search firms executive role in a FTSE 350 company, who have signed up to the voluntary Code they would not be expected to hold The board of Conduct on gender diversity and best more than two other material nonpractice: and 1 Male 71% executive directorships.
2 Female 29% We will ensure the topic of diversity is raised In line with the Code, an executive director during every board evaluation process.
will be permitted to hold one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company and 2 Succession planning to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the board considers that As discussed above, the group remains this will not adversely affect their executive committed to maintaining and improving, responsibilities to the company.
The board where necessary, its level of female 1 would not permit an executive director to representation, whilst ensuring that the take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 right knowledge, skills and experience company.
Any request for an exception to are being sought.
The committee intends this policy isconsidered on its merits and to support the groups diversity policy determined by the board.
within its succession planning activities Overall senior management by continuing to ensure that the levels of 1 Male 70% Effectiveness female representation within the senior 2 Female 30% management teams across the group is At its meeting in February 2016 the maintained and, where possible, improved committee formally considered its during the course of 2016. effectiveness in 2015, and on the basis of the 2 internal board and committee evaluation The nomination committee will continue which was undertaken, the overall view was its work of ensuring there are appropriate that the committee was working effectively succession plans in place across the group and had made good progress in developing and a suitable mix of skills and experience 1 a succession plan which included the amongst both the executive and nonidentification of high potential individuals executive directors.
The committee keeps through the group talent review.
under review a detailed succession plan for the executive directors, the Chairman Manjit Wolstenholme As the board continues to work towards and the persons discharging managerial Nomination committee chairman securing FCA authorisation for each responsibility.
Below board level, succession 23 February 2016 division, the committee will ensure planning within the divisions safeguards that the board composition retains an the pipeline of talented individuals within
