Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Equally, we continue to attract the best Our award-winning Cha-Ching series of talent from across the industry, as shown in financial education cartoons continues to Anne Richards forthcoming arrival as the be an enormous success in Asia and is now new Chief Executive of M&G.
I would like being rolled out elsewhere.
The Safe Steps to take this opportunity to thank Michael disaster preparedness public service McLintock for his 19 years of exceptional broadcasts created by the Prudence service and to wish him well for his Foundation in collaboration with National retirement from the Group.
Geographic have been highly effective, and we are examining how we can best Alongside the changes in the Executive, build on that success.
I have also been pleased to welcome David Law and Adair Turner to the Board In the UK, we were pleased to be able as independent Non-executive Directors.
to renew our support for Prudential They bring with them a depth of RideLondon.
In the three years since experience in business and regulation that we began our relationship, this festival I know will be a tremendous asset to our of cycling has raised more than 29 million work.
Alongside these changes, we are for charity.
We hope to be able to improve adjusting our subsidiary Board structure to on this figure in the years ahead.
include a number of independent directors.
The 2015 Chairmans Challenge Finally, Alistair Johnston has announced programme which allows colleagues that he will retire from the Board at the from around the Group to give their time AGM to focus on the arts and his charitable and skills to support our charity partners activities.
I want to thank him for his broke previous records.
Over 7,000 significant contribution to the Board volunteers gave up their time to benefit over the last four and a half years.
more than 174,000 people, working with The quality of a companys corporate charities including Plan International, Help governance is a strong indicator of how Age International and Junior Achievement.
well placed it is to succeed.
There can be I would like to conclude by recognising no sustainable commercial success without the contribution made by our employees it.
It will continue to be a focus for us.
It is their commitment A well governed company engages and endeavour that makes possible the regularly and effectively with its delivery of Prudentials strategy.
We have an active continued commitment to delivering for programme of engagement.
It is important our customers, I am certain that we can to us that we hear the views of our investors look to the future with confidence.
and we find it useful to have an open and constructive dialogue with them.
I know that I have found this very helpful.
Another vital relationship is with our regulators.
Prudential engages with many Paul Manduca regulators and supervisors here in the Chairman UK and around the world.
We place great importance on having an effective and Our strategy page 14 positive relationship with those who supervise us and our markets.
Such relationships are the bedrock of a productive exchange that, we believe, ultimately allows us to serve our customers needs.
Prudentials day-to-day business activities provide enormous value to the communities of which we are a part.
We help provide security in retirement, contribute to financial peace of mind, invest in infrastructure and assist in growing economies and creating jobs.
We do all this with an eye to the long term, because that is the very nature of our business.
Alongside these activities, we also carry 38.78p out wide-ranging and highly impactful full-year ordinary dividend corporate responsibility programmes.
We have continued to build on our work in this area.
In partnership with charities and non-governmental organisations we have 5% sought to make a real difference to lives in increase on 2014 the markets where we operate.
These programmes mean a great deal to the many thousands of staff who volunteer for them something I have seen first-hand.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 03
