Nomination committee report Mark Nicholls What we have done Chairman During the year, the committee discussed the composition of the board, recognising that David Harrel, the senior independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee will complete nine years service on 1 December 2016 and will no longer be considered independent from that date.
The committee agreed that, in the first half of 2016, we should seek at least one new non-executive director and that, as soon as possible, a new chairman of the remuneration committee should be identified to ensure a smooth transition.
Nomination committee chairmans The committee discussed the short-term emergency cover annual statement arrangements that would be made if an executive director or executive committee member was unexpectedly unable The nomination committees primary focus this year has to continue working.
It also discussed longer-term executive been on succession planning.
succession planning, the pipeline of internal candidates and potential external candidates.
Whilst the benefits of a diverse Committee members board and management team are recognised, improving the Our current members are Mark Nicholls chairman, James gender balance at senior management level is a challenge, as Dean, Sarah Gentleman, David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
is the case in many other similar businesses.
Sarah Gentleman joined the committee on her appointment to the board on 21 January 2015.
Looking forward We met formally on two occasions in 2015 2014: three.
We will continue to consider what additional skills are Details of attendance by members are set out on page 65. needed on the board and we will keep under review There have been a number of other informal discussions a succession timetable for both executives and nonamongst members of the committee.
We will also monitor the development of management talent below board level, encourage greater Role and responsibilities of diversity and challenge management to develop the talent that exists in the firm.
the committee The remit of the committee is to consider and make Mark Nicholls recommendations to the board for the appointment of Chairman of the nomination committee directors.
The board as a whole then decides upon any such 23 February 2016 appointment.
The committee also considers issues such as appraisals, training and director development.
The terms of reference of the committee are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
An external search consultancy is generally used when recruiting new non-executive directors and may be used when recruiting executive directors.
When considering possible candidates, the committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
The committee is mindful of the benefits of a diverse board with a broad range of skills and experience.
88 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Governance
