Audit committee report James Dean What we have done Non-executive Director Governance We have clarified the roles of the audit and group risk committees and their linkage to our three lines of defence model.
The group risk committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the groups second line of defence, oversight of internal controls and risk management systems.
This now includes oversight of the work of the compliance team.
The audit committee has oversight of the groups third line of defence, primarily by the assessment of the work of the groups internal audit department.
Audit committee chairmans Financial reporting annual statement During the year, we considered the significant financial 2015 has been another busy year for Rathbones.
From an and regulatory reporting issues, the judgements made in audit committee perspective, the work of internal audit connection with the financial statements, viability and going has been an area of particular focus this year following an concern statements and the appropriateness of accounting independent assessment of our internal audit function as policies.
We reviewed the narrative statements in the report required by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors and accounts, interim statement and other market updates standards in late 2014. to ensure that they were fair, balanced and understandable and consistent with the reported results.
Committee members Client relationship intangible assets Our current members are the independent non-executive directors James Dean chairman, Sarah Gentleman, The group assesses whether payments made to newly David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
Sarah Gentleman recruited investment managers under contractual joined the committee on her appointment to the board agreements represent payments for the acquisition on 21 January 2015. of client relationship intangibles or remuneration for ongoing services provided to the group.
Payments made The board is satisfied that at least one member of the for the acquisition of client relationship intangibles are committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
I am capitalised whereas those that are judged to be in relation a chartered accountant while the other committee members to the provision of ongoing services are expensed in the have extensive experience of financial matters and of the period in which they are incurred note 2.1 to the financial financial services industry.
We met on six occasions in 2015 statements.
Typically, any payments made 12 or more 2014: eight.
Details of attendance by members are set out months after the cessation of any non-compete period will on page 65.
The chief executive, finance director, chief risk be expensed.
The audit committee agree that this approach officer, head of internal audit and the external audit partner continues to be appropriate.
and manager attend most meetings by invitation.
Acquisitions and funding Role and responsibilities of the We considered the impact of future acquisitions and committee recruitment activity on capital.
We discussed the issue of 20 million subordinated loan notes by Rathbone These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, Investment Management in July 2015 see note 27 to the which are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
We considered the key terms of the loan agreement and the associated financial reporting requirements, agreeing that it was a cost-effective and capital efficient way to finance future growth.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 85 Governance Audit committee report What we have done Internal audit We discussed the accounting considerations relating to the Following a KPMG independent assessment of internal acquisition of the remaining 80.1% of Vision and Castle.
audit in 2014, we monitored the implementation of the This was not straightforward as payments were due both reports main recommendations during 2015.
Deloitte were on completion at 31 December 2015 and between 2016 and engaged on 1 July 2015 as our internal audit co-source 2020, these latter payments being linked to growth and partner following a tender process.
Their role is to assist with operational targets.
We agreed with management that, audits which require specialist knowledge and to provide whilst the payments on completion should be capitalised, support to the internal audit planning process.
A combined some post-completion payments were conditional on key assurance map has been developed, linking significant risks personnel remaining in employment and so should be to first line controls, second line oversight and internal audit recorded as an expense in future.
With the development of the second line of defence, more work is now done by compliance and risk, freeing up The carrying value of assets internal audit resource.
Enhancements to internal audit We reviewed the methodology for valuing assets where reporting were also agreed.
a significant amount of judgement is required, including Towards the end of the year, we approved the 2016 internal intangible assets, particularly goodwill and client audit plan with a greater focus on higher risk areas and relationships.
We discussed the carrying value of the end-to-end reviews.
We discussed the findings of a number goodwill allocated to the trust and tax cash generating unit of completed internal audit reviews all reviews containing and an impairment charge of 316,000 was recognised in the high risk-related recommendations and a sample of first half of 2015.
No further impairment charge was required other reviews, the status of scheduled work and the in the second half of the year.
follow-up of reviews by management to ensure that the The valuation of defined benefit pension obligations agreed recommendations are acted upon promptly.
We reviewed the key assumptions made, particularly salary External audit increases, investment returns, inflation and the discount rate We reviewed the external audit process, including the when valuing the companys pension schemes liabilities, performance of the external auditors, by gathering feedback which are disclosed in note 28 to the financial statements.
from committee members and from management.
This We reviewed the professional advice taken and considered process was undertaken by internal audit.
We also reviewed feedback provided by the auditors on the assumptions used the annual Financial Reporting Council FRC Audit Quality by us and by other companies.
We satisfied ourselves that Inspection report prepared on our external auditor and the assumptions used were reasonable.
discussed this report with the audit partner.
Provisions and contingent liabilities The committee is responsible for reviewing external audit We discussed provisions totalling 20.1 million summarised arrangements and for any recommendation to the board in note 26 to the financial statements.
These primarily regarding change of audit firm.
This includes consideration include provisions made in respect of future property of the external auditors period in office, their compensation dilapidation liabilities and future payments to be made and the scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their following the acquisition of businesses or amounts payable work.
The last audit services contract tender process was to new investment managers as outlined above.
undertaken in June 2009, which led to the appointment of KPMG.
We plan to undertake an audit services contract tender process again before the tenth anniversary of their appointment.
86 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Governance Audit committee report What we have done Whistleblowing policy We challenged reports from the external auditor outlining We annually review the groups whistleblowing policy, their risk assessments and their audit plans including approve any changes to the document and receive details their proposed materiality level for the performance of of any reports made.
the annual audit, the status of their audit work and issues Other arising from it.
Particular focus was given to their testing of internal controls, their work on the key judgement areas and We also discussed the implication of changes to the possible audit adjustments.
We can confirm that there are no UK Corporate Governance Code and accounting for such material items remaining unadjusted in the financial the Executive Incentive Plan which was approved by statements.
We also reviewed a benchmarking of our IT shareholders at the 2015 annual general meeting.
We controls against a peer group of other investment managers.
discussed updates on any client complaints and attempted frauds.
Client identity theft, cyber crime and the cloning We discussed the independence of the external auditor, the of the websites of FCA registered firms remain significant nature of non-audit services supplied by them and non-audit issues affecting the financial services industry with fee levels relative to the audit fee.
The committees prior fraudsters becoming increasingly sophisticated in approval is required where the fee for an individual nontheir approach.
audit service is expected to exceed 25,000.
Should fees for non-audit services paid to the auditor, in aggregate, exceed As well as meetings with management, I have regular 50% of the audit fee in any year prior approval is required meetings on a one-to-one basis, with the head of internal from the committee.
audit before audit committee meetings to ensure that any concerns can be raised in confidence.
Non-audit fees payable to the auditor in 2015 were 166,000.
This represents 29% of the fees for assurance services of We can access independent professional advice if we 571,000 which includes the assurance reports required consider it necessary.
by our regulators and the review of the interim statement 2014: 206,000, 37% of 517,000.
Other non-audit work James Dean undertaken by the auditor in 2015 was advice on meeting Chairman of the audit committee new regulatory conduct risk requirements.
We recognise 23 February 2016 that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the external auditor to provide certain non-audit services and we are satisfied that their independence has not been impaired by providing these services.
We agreed the external auditors fees which are shown in note 7 to the financial statements and reviewed the audit engagement letter.
We also had discussions with the external auditor with no management present to provide an opportunity for any concerns to be raised and discussed.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 87 Governance
