Group risk committee report Kathryn Matthews Role and responsibilities of Non-executive Director the committee These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, which are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
The key activities of the committee are to: review reports from the investment management performance monitoring team review reports from the risk team on risk appetite issues including any early warning signals and advise the board accordingly Risk committee chairmans review reports from the head of compliance annual statement review reports from the head of anti-money laundering As I mentioned in my report last year, I was delighted that our risk and compliance team was strengthened in March discuss any loss events and near misses, the lessons 2015 with the appointment of Sarah Owen-Jones as chief risk learned and management action taken officer.
Sarah has considerable banking and financial services discuss external risk-related events risk management experience which will be invaluable as Rathbones continues to grow.
discuss significant issues raised at the banking, conduct risk and risk management committee meetings Sarah has already made a number of important changes to our risk framework.
The second line of defence has been review and approve changes to the top ten risk list and the strengthened with the appointment of a dedicated head watch list of emerging risks of anti-money laundering, separating this role from the review end-to-end process risk assessments undertaken head of compliance function.
She has also clarified risk and any resulting internal control enhancements responsibilities with credit risk overseen by the banking committee, conduct risk by a new conduct risk committee advise the board on the risk aspects of proposed major which has formalised our approach to this important strategic change area of regulatory focus and operational risk by the risk review prior to board approval key regulatory management committee.
submissions including the group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP document Committee members review prior to board approval the annual ISAE 3402 Our current members are the independent non-executive report on the investment management operations and directors Kathryn Matthews chairman, James Dean, Sarah custody control systems.
Sarah Gentleman joined the committee on her appointment to the board on 21 January Full details of our risk management framework are included 2015.
We met on four occasions in 2015 2014: four.
Details in the strategic report on pages 20 to 26. of attendance by members are set out on page 65.
Kathryn Matthews Chairman of the group risk committee 23 February 2016 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 69 Governance
