Corporate governance report Mark Nicholls The nomination committee keeps under review board Chairman succession planning for both short-term emergencies and longer-term succession.
A number of the key issues were highlighted in a Financial Reporting Council FRC discussion paper on UK Board Succession Planning published in October 2015.
In between board meetings I maintain frequent contact with the executive team and, in particular, the chief executive who keeps me advised of progress and key developments.
Philip and I also discuss how to bring issues to the board in the most effective way.
I maintain regular contact with Introduction from the chairman our senior independent director and discuss with him my thinking on significant board issues.
I also have frequent You will find commentaries in this annual report from me dialogue with my other non-executive colleagues to ensure and other committee chairmen on important aspects of our that any areas of concern are aired.
The boards primary focus is on ensuring that meeting the non-executive directors meet to discuss any the business prospers for the benefit of our shareholders key issues that have emerged from the board papers.
Whilst there must always be a place for the reporting of 2015 was a busy year, as always, on the regulatory front.
I important operational matters at board level, I am keen to welcome many aspects of the new senior management cut out clutter from our board papers and to ensure that the regime, which will come into force for our investment boards focus is on strategic oversight.
This will replace the current approved person regime which acts as a gateway Finally, Rathbones takes the recommendations of the UK for new senior management with a more robust process Corporate Governance Code the Code seriously and we with defined responsibilities and annual certification have been compliant with it throughout the year.
We are of significant risk takers.
However, as I indicate in my also compliant with Lord Davies recommendations that chairmans statement, I have a concern that the application boards have at least 25% female representation.
of this regime to individual non-executive directors risks undermining the collective responsibility of the board.
I am pleased that there is an increasing focus on culture and a plethora of industry statements of principle and codes of conduct.
Our primary benchmarks remain the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Principles for Businesses, the most important of which are conducting our business with integrity and paying due regard to the interests of our clients in all that we do.
As I reported last year, Sarah Gentleman joined the board in January 2015.
Sarah brings analytical and digital marketing skills to the board which I believe will be of great benefit.
We restructured and strengthened the group executive committee in July 2015 with the appointment of Sarah Owen-Jones, our chief risk officer, and four senior investment managers who now have responsibility for the day-to-day management of the investment management business, reporting to Philip Howell.
There have been some important changes to our risk management processes, including the creation of a conduct risk committee which are covered in the risk and group risk committee reports.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 63 Governance Corporate governance report Governance of the company We meet as a full board at least six times a year.
Most board meetings are preceded by a board dinner which allows for In relation to compliance with the Code, this report together broader discussions on particular topics.
They also provide with the directors report states the position at 23 February an opportunity for the board to meet members of the 2016.
The company was in compliance with the Code issued management team or to receive training.
In months where in September 2014 by the FRC throughout the year.
no formal board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting of the non-executive directors and the chairman and chief The board executive is generally held.
The non-executive directors The biographies of the directors and their details are set also have informal meetings without the chairman or chief out on pages 58 to 60.
The board currently consists of a executive present.
non-executive chairman, three executive directors and four The company secretary manages board and committee other non-executive directors.
The board considers that all meetings, ensures that the board and particularly the nonof the non-executive directors are independent.
The roles of executive directors are receiving appropriate and balanced the chairman, Mark Nicholls, and the chief executive, Philip information, facilitates the induction process for new Howell, are separated and are clearly defined in writing directors, assists with their professional development and and agreed by the board.
The non-executive directors advises the board on corporate governance matters and on bring independent judgement to the board table gained the rules and regulations that affect a UK listed company.
at a senior level in other organisations and constructively The appointment or removal of the company secretary is challenge strategy and management performance.
The a matter for the board.
senior independent director is David Harrel, who is available to shareholders if they have concerns that they would rather Attendance at board meetings not address to the chairman or executive directors or which remain unresolved after an approach through The meeting attendance record of directors who served the normal channels.
during the year is set out in table 1.
Regarding board changes, Sarah Gentleman was appointed to the board on 21 January 2015.
The board and principal board committee structure Board Group executive Group risk committee Remuneration Nomination committee Audit committee committee committee Banking committee Conduct risk committee Risk management committee 64 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Governance Corporate governance report Table 1: Attendance at board and committee meetings Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Group risk 1 2 Plc board committee committee committee committee committee P D G Chavasse 6 6 11 12 J W Dean 6 6 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 S F Gentleman 6 6 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 D T D Harrel 6 6 6 6 4 4 1 2 4 4 P L Howell 6 6 12 12 2 2 K A Matthews 6 6 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 M P Nicholls 6 6 4 4 2 2 R P Stockton 6 6 12 12 1 Scheduled bi-monthly meeting 2 Scheduled monthly meeting Board effectiveness Board effectiveness review There are three key elements to ensuring board Each year, the board undertakes an annual review of its effectiveness: the annual effectiveness review, individual effectiveness.
In 2014, an external review was undertaken director appraisal and training.
This involved their attendance at audit, group risk and board meetings, one-to-one interviews with directors and the company secretary and a review of board and board committee papers and minutes.
The key points raised in the 2014 review, which are summarised in table 2, were discussed by the board and taken forward in 2015.
The 2015 internal board review included a discussion at the October board meeting and follow up discussions at subsequent board and non-executive director meetings.
Table 2: Board effectiveness review Key issues from the 2014 review Action taken in 2015 The board agenda There is now greater board focus on strategic initiatives such as the Rathbone Private Greater focus on oversight, strategy and key risks, Office and our distribution strategy.
However, reporting of day-to-day management less on day-to-day management issues issues provides useful colour and background for the non-executive directors Information flows Whilst progress has been made in some areas, there are challenges in others, Further refinement of board papers to highlight particularly in the reporting of operations, IT and project issues.
New corporate key points and remove clutter management information software to be introduced in 2016 will enhance detailed analysis of our core investment management business Succession planning Short-term emergency and longer-term succession plans were discussed with the For executive and non-executive directors and non-executive directors during the year below board level Induction and development During 2015, a series of training sessions and employee meetings were arranged Develop a more structured programme for the board Code of ethics The board decided that rather than create its own code of ethics, its focus should be Embed a code of business conduct on the FCA Principles for Businesses Risk Risk reporting at board level is now on the key issues register with the group risk Greater board focus on the key business risks committee discussing risk issues in more detail Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 65 Governance Corporate governance report Director appraisal Individual appraisal of each directors performance is undertaken by the chief executive in respect of the executive directors executive roles and the chairman for all directors in respect of their contribution to the board.
This involves meetings with each director on a one-to-one basis.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
Training and induction Rathbones is committed to the training and development of all staff to ensure professional standards are maintained and enhanced.
All directors are required to dedicate a certain number of hours to their own development.
Training and development include activities to keep up-to-date with Rathbones specific issues and industry, market and regulatory changes.
New directors are involved in a thorough induction process designed to enable them to become quickly familiar with the business.
This includes meeting staff in a number of key business areas, attendance at important internal meetings and demonstrations of systems and key business processes.
Board committees Full details of the work of the principal board committees are set out in the separate reports for each committee.
Mark Nicholls Chairman 23 February 2016 66 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Governance
