SECTION 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Introduction practice against which shareholders, boards and the The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate Commission can better assess the governance exercised governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
over companies in Guernseys finance sector.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate The Commission recognises that the dierent nature, scale governance which it believes is appropriate for an and complexity of specic businesses will lead to diering investment company in line with the best practices in approaches to meeting the Code.
Companies which report relation to matters aecting shareholders, communities, against the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC regulators and other stakeholders of the Company.
With a Code are also deemed to meet this code.
The Directors range of relevant skills and experience, all Directors have determined that the Company will continue as a contribute to the Board discussions and debates on Guernsey-registered closed-ended investment company.
In particular, the Board believes in providing as much transparency for investors as is Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments reasonably possible to ensure investors can clearly On 1 January 2014, certain changes to the FCA rules understand the prospects of the business and enhance relating to restrictions on the retail distribution of liquidity of its shares while also preserving an appropriate unregulated collective investment schemes and close level of commercial condentiality.
As announced by the Company on 7 January 2014, AIFM Directive following the receipt of legal advice the Board confirms The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive seeks that it conducts the Companys aairs, and intends to to regulate alternative investment fund managers in this continue to conduct the Companys aairs, such that the paragraph, AIFM and imposes obligations on managers Company would qualify for approval as an investment trust who manage alternative investment funds in this if it were resident in the United Kingdom.
It is the Boards paragraph, AIF in the EU or who market shares in such intention that the Company will continue to conduct its funds to EU investors.
The Company is categorised as a selfaairs in such a manner and that Independent Financial managed Non EEA AIF for the purposes of the AIFM Advisers should therefore be able to recommend its Directive.
In order to maintain compliance with the AIFM Ordinary Shares to ordinary retail investors in accordance Directive, the Company needs to comply with various with the FCAs rules relating to non-mainstream investment organisational, operational and transparency obligations.
Association of Investment Companies The Company is a member of the Association of Investment THE BOARD Companies the AIC and has considered the principles Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate The Board consists of four non-executive Directors.
In Governance the AIC Code and has decided to follow the accordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code all of the nonAICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment executives are independent of the Investment Manager.
The Company has complied The Chairman, Helen Mahy, met the independence criteria with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the of the AIC Code Principle 1 upon appointment and has relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, continued to meet this condition throughout her term of except as set out below.
Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions accordance with guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a relating to the role of the chief executive, executive Senior Independent Director, Shelagh Mason, who was directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit appointed as Senior Independent Director in 2013.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as non-executive Directors, none of the Directors has a service explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board contract with the Company.
considers these provisions are not relevant to the position The Articles of Incorporation currently provide that at least of the Company as it has no executive directors, employees one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not general meeting.
If their number is not three or a multiple reported further in respect of these provisions.
of three, the number nearest to, but not exceeding, one third, shall retire from oce.
In accordance with Principle Guernsey regulatory environment 3 of the AIC Code, all 4 Directors intend to retire and oer The Guernsey Financial Services Commission the themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual Commission issued a Finance Sector Code of Corporate General Meeting on 4 May 2016.
The Code comprises Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good corporate THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Board believes that long serving Directors should not was achieved.
However, gender, knowledge, skills, be automatically prevented from forming part of an experience, residency and governance credentials are all independent majority of the Board upon reaching nine considered by the Nominations Committee when years service.
In accordance with Principle 4 of the Code, recommending appointments to the Board and in if a Director has served more than nine years, the Board formulating succession plans.
Notwithstanding this, the will consider the issue of independence carefully on an selection of the preferred individual to be invited to join annual basis as part of the Board self-evaluation and will the Board will always be based on merit.
disclose its conclusions in the Directors Report.
As the The Board recommends the re-election of each Director Company was formed in 2013 no Director has yet served and supporting biographies are disclosed on page 54 of this for nine years or more.
A Director who retires at an annual annual report.
general meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year and between these formal meetings there is regular The Board believes that the balance of skills, gender, contact with the Investment Manager and Operations experience and knowledge of the current Board provides Manager, the Secretary and the Companys Joint Brokers.
for a sound base from which the interests of investors will The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and be served to a high standard, although as the Company financial controls, and other matters that are relevant to grows, the Board may consider whether additional the business of the Company that should be brought to the directors may be suitable.
The Board has chosen to adopt attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access, a denitive policy with quantitative targets for Board where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to diversity.
The Company aspires to equal representation of independent professional advice at the expense of the men and women on the Board and from 1 March 2014 this Company.
The attendance record of Directors for the period to 31 December 2015 is set out below: Quarterly Management Board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 44343 Meetings Attended: H Mahy 44343 J Bridel 44343 S Mason 44343 K Hammer 44343 During the period a further twenty-seven ad hoc shareholders received directly or from the Managers.
The Board Committee meetings were held in Guernsey to deal investment strategy, which was set out in the Companys with matters substantially of an administrative nature and IPO prospectus, is reviewed regularly with the Investment these were attended by those directors available.
Board meetings include a review of investment performance and associated matters such as health and The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the safety, marketing investor relations, risk management, Company and the Directors believe that any changes to the gearing, general administration and compliance, peer Boards composition can be managed without undue group information and industry issues.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice Performance evaluation and agenda of meeting which are circulated to the Board The Board evaluates its performance and considers the in advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
tenure and independence of each Director on an annual Directors may request any agenda items to be added that basis.
The annual evaluation for the period ended they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Each 31 December 2015 has been completed by the Chairman Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or and took the form of a questionnaire completed by all of actual conicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
the Directors and additionally by the Managers and the Company Secretary, including one to one interviews with The Board constantly considers the Companys strategy each Director holding oce as at 31 December 2015.
For with regard to market conditions and feedback from 62 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 the evaluation of the Chairman, the Senior Independent coordinating all corporate service providers to the Group Director discussed the results of a questionnaire with the and giving the Board general advice.
Chairman following consultation with the other Directors.
The Operations Manager is responsible for monitoring, Actions which resulted include assessing and monitoring evaluating and optimising technical and financial training for Directors, arranging more visits by Directors to performance across the portfolio.
The services provided by see the investments and their operations, ensuring the the Operations Manager include maintaining an overview Board continues to receive regular feedback from investors of project operations and reporting on key performance and continuing to focus on risk management and controls.
measures, recommending and implementing strategy on The Board will also continue to consider its composition as management of the portfolio including energy sales appropriate in 2016.
As part of the annual evaluation agreements, insurance, maintenance and other areas exercise, the independence of each Director has been requiring portfolio level decisions, maintaining and considered and each has been confirmed as being monitoring health and safety and operating risk independent of the Company.
The Operations Manager also works The Board believes that the composition of the Board and jointly with the Investment Manager on sourcing and its Committees reected a suitable mix of skills and transacting new business, providing assistance in due experience, and that the Board, as a whole, and its diligence of potential new acquisitions, renancing of Committees functioned eectively during 2015 and since existing assets and investor relations.
The Operations the launch of the Company in 2013.
It is also proposed that Manager does not participate in any investment decisions during 2016 the Boards performance will be reviewed by taken by or on behalf of the Company or undertake any an external consultant.
other regulated activities for the purposes of the UKs Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Delegation of responsibilities Members of the Investment Managers and or the The Board has delegated the following areas of Operations Managers teams are also appointed as responsibility: directors of the Groups project companies and or The day-to-day administration of the Company has been intermediate holding companies and as part of their role delegated to Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited in its in managing the portfolio, they attend board meetings of capacity as Company Secretary and Administrator.
these companies and make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to the TRIGs investment The Investment Manager has full discretion within agreed committee and or advisory committee for consideration parameters to make investments in accordance with the and determination, and the TRIG board is consulted on key Companys Investment Policy and has responsibility for matters relevant to TRIGs strategy, policies or overall financial administration and investor relations, in addition performance, both on an ad hoc basis where required and to advising the Board in relation to further capital raisings during formal reporting sessions, including all matters and the payment of dividends amongst other matters, outside the Managers delegated authority.
subject to the overall supervision and oversight of the Board.
Among the specic tasks of the Investment Committees of the Board Manager are the overall financial management of the The committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Company and existing portfolio as a whole, including the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and deployment of capital, management of the Groups debt a Management Engagement Committee.
Terms of facilities, hedging arrangements, the sourcing of new reference for each Committee have been approved by the investments, preparing the semi-annual valuations, the Board.
statutory accounts, the management accounts, business plans, presenting results and information to shareholders, The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Management Audit Remuneration Nomination Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman J Bridel S Mason H Mahy H Mahy Members H Mahy H Mahy J Bridel J Bridel S Mason J Bridel S Mason S Mason K Hammer K Hammer K Hammer K Hammer THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Nomination Committee Relations with shareholders AIC Code Principle 19 The main terms of reference of the Committee are: The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its regularly review the structure, size and composition shareholders.
The Investment Manager produces a regular required of the Board and make recommendations to factsheet which is available on the Companys website.
the Board with regard to any changes including skills, Senior members of the Investment Manager and knowledge and experience in accordance with Principle 6 Operations Manager make themselves available, as of the AIC Code : practicable, to meet with principal shareholders and key give full consideration to succession planning for sector analysts.
Feedback from these meetings is provided directors taking into account the challenges and to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully opportunities facing the Company: and informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Companys Financial PR agency, as well as be responsible for identifying and nominating for the receiving relevant updates from the Managers and the approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies Companys brokers.
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year The Nomination Committee met three times during 2015. and will hold an Annual General Meeting in Guernsey on The Board is currently composed of 50% male and 50% 4 May 2016, at which members of the Board will be female directors.
available to answer shareholder questions.
In addition, Shareholders receive written communications from the Management Engagement Committee Company either with documents enclosed or to notify The terms of reference of this committee are to review the them of new information available to view on the relationships between the Company and its main service Companys website.
providers, including their performance, compliance with their contracts, and levels of fees paid.
Recommendations Results of Extraordinary and Annual General Meetings are from the Committees review are given to the Board for announced by the Company promptly after the relevant consideration and action.
Additionally, other notices and information are provided to Shareholders on an ongoing basis through the The Management Engagement Committee met three times Companys website in order to assist in keeping in 2015 in accordance with its plan to review the Shareholders informed.
The Secretary and Registrar performance of the key service providers to the Group and monitor the voting of the Shareholders and proxy voting is the Company.
No material weaknesses were identied, taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual some recommendations were conveyed to certain General Meeting.
providers, and the recommendation to the Board was that the current arrangements are appropriate and provide Shareholders may contact the Board via the Company good quality services and advice to the Company and the Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 101 of Group.
It was resolved that the Committee would convene the report and accounts.
a planning meeting in August each year followed by a meeting in November of each year to review the Investment Manager and Operations Manager, and a meeting in February of each year to review the other service providers.
On 22 December 2015 the Company announced the appointment of Liberum as its Joint Corporate Broker, alongside Canaccord Genuity, with immediate eect.
The Managers were duly considered at the meeting of the Management Engagement Committee in November 2015 and no material issues were identied in connection with their respective appointments.
Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee are set out in Section 7 and Section 8 respectively.
All terms of reference for committees are available from the Companys website or Company Secretary upon request.
64 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
