SECTION 8 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee has been in operation since the meetings at which the annual and interim accounts are inception of the Company.
Chaired by Jon Bridel, it considered, and at which they have the opportunity to operates within clearly dened terms of reference and meet with the Committee without representatives of the comprises all of the Directors.
It met four times in 2015 and Managers being present.
The Audit Committee has direct is also the formal forum through which the auditors report access to the auditors and to key senior sta of the to the Board of Directors.
It meets at least three times Investment Manager and it reports its findings and annually.
recommendations to the Board which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial statements of the Company.
The main duties of the Audit Committee are: giving full consideration and recommending to the Board SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED for approval the contents of the half year and annual After discussion with both the Managers and the external financial statements and reviewing the external auditors auditors, the Audit Committee determined that the key report thereon including consideration of whether the risks of misstatement of the Companys financial financial statements are overall fair, balanced and statements related to the valuation of the investments.
understandable: VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS agreeing with the auditors the external audit plan As outlined in Note 13 to the Financial Statements, the including discussing with the external auditors the key total carrying value of the investments at fair value risk areas within the financial statements: excluding the fair value of TRIG UK at 31 December 2015 considering and understanding the key risks of was 712.3m.
Market quotations are not available for misstatement of the financial statements and these financial assets, and as such their valuation is formulating an appropriate plan to review these and undertaken using a discounted cash ow methodology.
agreeing with the Managers their processes to manage This requires a series of material judgements to be made these risk areas: as further explained in Note 4 to the Financial Statements.
reviewing the draft valuation of the Companys The valuation process and methodology were discussed by investments prepared by the Investment Manager and the Audit Committee with the Investment Manager at the making a recommendation to the Board on the time of the interim review, in November 2015 prior to the valuation: year-end valuation process and again in February 2016 as part of the year-end sign o process.
The Committee met reviewing the scope, results, cost eectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors as with the auditors at the time at which the Audit Committee well as reviewing the eectiveness of the external audit reviewed and agreed the auditors Group audit plan and process and making any recommendations to the Board also at the conclusion of the audit of the financial for improvement of the audit process: statements and in particular discussed the valuation process.
The Investment Manager carries out a valuation reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval semi-annually and provides a detailed valuation report to the audit, audit related and non-audit fees payable to the Company.
the external auditors or their aliated rms overseas and the terms of their engagement: VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS KEY FORECAST reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys ASSUMPTIONS accounting policies: The Audit Committee considered in detail those assumptions that are subject to judgement that have a ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal material impact on the valuation.
The key assumptions are: control systems: and Power price assumptions reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its duties.
A significant proportion of the wind and solar projects income streams are contracted subsidy streams and None of the members of the Audit Committee have any power income under long-term PPAs, some of which involvement in the preparation of the financial statements have xed price mechanisms.
However over time the of the Company, as this has been contracted to the proportion of power income that is xed reduces and Investment Manager.
the proportion where the Company has exposure to The Audit Committee meets the external auditors before wholesale electricity prices increases.
Market and after their audit and has discussed with the auditors participants expect electricity prices to increase in real the scope of their annual audit work and also their audit terms i. e. ahead of ination over the medium and long findings.
The auditors attend the Audit Committee term.
The Investment Manager considers the forecasts 68 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 provided by expert energy advisors and then adopts a projections, the economic assumptions and discount rates, prole of assumed future power prices by jurisdiction.
On the basis of their audit work Further detail on the assumptions made in relation to there were no adjustments proposed that were material in power prices and other variables that may be expected the context of the financial statements as a whole.
to aect these are included in the Valuation section of the Strategic Report.
Internal controls and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the Companys system of Macroeconomic assumptions internal control and for reviewing its eectiveness, and the Macroeconomic assumptions include ination, interest Board has therefore established an ongoing process and tax rate assumptions.
The Investment Managers designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in assumptions in this area are set out and explained in the managing the risks to which it is exposed.
Valuation section of the Strategic Report.
The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal Other key income and costs assumptions control through a matrix which identies the key functions carried out by the Investment Manager, Operations Other key assumptions include operating costs, facility Manager and other key service providers, the various energy generation levels and facility remaining operating activities undertaken within those functions, the risks life assumptions.
These assumptions are updated semiassociated with each activity and the controls employed to annually and reect the recent actual results for each minimise and mitigate those risks.
A scoring based on 1 to facility.
5 for Likelihood and 1 to 5 for Impact is used and these are The Investment Manager has discussed and agreed the multiplied together to give a total score.
Mitigation is valuation assumptions with the Audit Committee.
In considered on a scale of 1 to 5 and this leads to a residual relation to the key judgements underpinning the valuation risk rating being derived.
The matrix is updated on an onthe Investment Manager has provided sensitivities showing going basis and reviewed quarterly and the Board the impact of changing these assumptions and these have considers all material changes to the risk ratings and the been reviewed by the Investment Committee and the Audit action which has been, or is being, taken.
these procedures will provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS VALUATION DISCOUNT At each Board meeting the Board also monitors the Groups RATES investment performance and it reviews the Groups The discount rates adopted to determine the valuation are activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the selected and recommended by the Investment Manager.
Investment Manager is adhering to the Companys The discount rate is applied to the expected future cash investment policy and approved investment guidelines.
The ows for each investments financial forecasts derived pipeline of new potential opportunities is considered and adopting the assumptions explained above amongst others the prices paid for new investments during the quarter are to arrive at a valuation discounted cash ow valuation.
The resulting valuation is sensitive to the discount rate selected.
The Investment Manager is experienced and Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports active in the area of valuing these investments and adopts from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect discount rates reecting its current extensive experience of compliance matters and duties performed by them on of the market.
It is noted however that this requires behalf of the Company.
subjective judgement and that there is a range of discount The Board has considered the need for an internal audit rates which could be applied.
The discount rate function and it has decided that the systems and assumptions and the sensitivity of the valuation of the procedures employed by the Investment Manager, the investments to this discount rate are set out in the Operations Manager and the Administrator, including their Valuation section of the Strategic Report.
own internal review processes and processes in place in The Audit Committee discussed with the Investment relation to the Company provide sucient assurance that Manager the process adopted to arrive at the selected a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the valuation discount rates which includes comparison with Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function other market transactions and an independent review of specic to the Group is therefore considered unnecessary.
valuation discount rates both at December 2014 and at The Board recognises that these control systems can only December 2015 and satisfied itself that the rates applied be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of were appropriate.
The external auditors explained the failure to achieve business objectives, and to provide results of their review of the valuations, including their reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material consideration of the Companys underlying cash ow THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued misstatement or loss, and relies on the operating controls audit related services to the Company and its subsidiary, established by the Companys Administrator, the TRIG UK, and 178,330 related to audit of the Groups Investment Manager and the Operations Manager.
The project subsidiaries and other audit related services.
The Board considers on a periodic basis whether further third only non-audit services provided by Deloitte in the year to party assurance is appropriate.
the Company and its subsidiaries are in relation to the review of the interim financial statements at the half year.
The Investment Manager prepares management accounts and updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and considers Deloitte LLP to be independent of the Company review its performance.
The Board and the Investment and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a Manager have agreed clearly dened investment criteria, threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct return targets, risk appetite, and exposure limits.
on these performance measures, coupled with cash To full its responsibility regarding the independence of the projections and investment valuations, are submitted to external auditors, the Audit Committee considered: the Board at each quarterly meeting.
changes in audit personnel in the audit plan for the The Operations Manager prepares quarterly project current period: performance and project financial analysis and highlights a report from the external auditors describing their the key activities performed and any specic new risks arrangements to identify, report and manage any identied relating to the operating portfolio for conicts of interest: and consideration by the Board.
the extent of non-audit services provided by the external Appointment of the external auditors auditors.
Deloitte LLP was appointed to be external auditors for the To assess the eectiveness of the external audit process, TRIG Group on 19 September 2013 following a competitive the Audit Committee reviewed: tendering process.
This process involved a review of the audit proposals and interviewing and challenging of each the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan rm.
and variations from it: The objectivity of the external auditors is reviewed by the reports highlighting the major issues that arose during Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under the course of the audit: and which the external auditors may be appointed to perform the eectiveness and independence of the external non-audit services.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope auditors having considered the degree of diligence and and results of the audit, its cost eectiveness and the professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to any non-audit work that the auditor The Audit Committee has noted the revisions to the UK may undertake.
In order to safeguard auditor Corporate Governance Code introduced by the Financial independence and objectivity, the Audit Committee Reporting Council in September 2012 and the AIC Code of ensures that any other advisory and or consulting services Corporate Governance issued in February 2013 and in provided by the external auditors do not conict with their particular the recommendation, in each, to put the statutory audit responsibilities.
external audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
This is the third year of Deloittes appointment as the Companys Advisory and or consulting services generally only cover auditors.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with Deloittes reviews of interim financial statements, tax compliance and eectiveness and independence as auditor having capital raising work.
Any non-audit services conducted by considered the degree of diligence and professional the external auditors outside of these areas which are scepticism demonstrated by them.
As such, the Committee above 20,000 in aggregate in any period require the has not considered it necessary during this period to consent of the Audit Committee before being initiated.
The conduct a tender process for the appointment of its external auditor may not undertake any work for the auditors for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Company in respect of the following matters preparation of the financial statements, valuations used in financial The Audit Committee confirms that TRIG has complied with statements, provision of investment advice, taking the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large management decisions or advocacy work in adversarial Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of situations.
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 since it became a member of Total fees paid amounted to 269,210 for the period ended the FTSE 350 Index on 18 December 2015 and up to 31 December 2015 of which 90,880 related to audit and 31 December 2015.
Deloitte were appointed as external 70 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 auditor in 2013 following a competitive process and our Audit Committee terms of reference are in line with the Order.
The Audit Committee continues to monitor the proposed changes by the European Union UK Competition Commission in respect of auditor services and retendering, which remain a work in progress.
The Committee intends to conduct a full review of Deloitte following the issue of these financial statements as it did in 2015 to ensure that the Committee considers all aspects of the auditors service and performance.
The outcome of the review in April 2015 was positive and led to no material concerns over the performance of the auditor.
Having satisfied itself that the external auditors remain independent and eective, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor for the period ending 31 December 2016.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 71
