Corporate Governance Report Introduction management to the Executive Committee of JRCM, are The Directors present the Companys Corporate considered by the Board as appropriate for a selfGovernance Report.
This describes its principal managed investment trust and its shareholders on an governance bodies, their composition, purpose and ongoing basis.
The Terms of Reference of each of the operation within the context of the Principles of the UK permanent committees may be viewed at Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code of the UK www.
Financial Reporting Council, which can be viewed at As Chairman of the Board, Lord Rothschild is responsible www.
for its leadership and its effectiveness in dealing with the Leadership matters reserved for its decision with adequate time for The Company is headed by its Board of Directors the consideration.
This includes ensuring a culture of Board which is collectively responsible for setting the openness and debate and that Directors are properly Companys long-term strategic aims, and its ongoing briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
He is also business and investment strategies.
Its Schedule of responsible for ensuring effective communication with Reserved Matters may be viewed at www.
shareholders, making Directors aware of any concerns The day-to-day management of the business is delegated raised by shareholders and for facilitating the contribution to the Executive Committee of the Companys whollyof the non-executive Directors.
owned subsidiary and Manager, JRCM.
The Audit and Risk Committee The Board currently comprises 10 Directors, including The Audit and Risk Committee Report is shown on pages seven independent non-executives, two non-independent 29 to 31. and non-executive Directors and one executive.
This The main features of the Companys internal controls and balance is intended to limit the scope for an individual, or risk management are described in the Audit and Risk a small group of individuals, to dominate the Boards Committee Report on page 30 and in Principal Risks & decision making.
More than half of the Board comprises Viability on pages 15 to 17. non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Conflicts Committee The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year on a Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as and executive.
Although this is arguably at variance with the when required.
The Committee is chaired by The Duke of Code, the Company has in place a structure of five Wellington and is comprised of independent Directors.
permanent committees which are designed to devolve The Committees principal responsibilities cover the responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board monitoring of arrangements with parties related to Lord responsibility away from the Chairman.
Four of these Rothschild or any other Directors as described in note committees are comprised entirely of independent non- 28, to ensure that any conflicts of interest are avoided, or executive Directors.
Independent non-executive Directors managed appropriately.
Such arrangements include coalso comprise a majority of the Nominations Committee, investments and related party transactions.
The structure of permanent committees, together with JRCMs appointment of a Chief Executive and the delegation of day-to-day The members of the five permanent Board committees are as follows: Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee John Cornish Chairman The Duke of Wellington Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman Mike Power John Cornish Michael Marks Amy Stirling Michael Marks The Duke of Wellington Mike Wilson Mike Wilson Valuation Committee Conflicts Committee John Cornish Chairman The Duke of Wellington Chairman Lord Myners John Cornish Mike Power Michael Marks Amy Stirling 24 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report The Nominations Committee Mr Marks is a Principal at a financial services The Nominations Committee comprises three Directors, company unconnected to RIT.
two of whom are independent non-executives and the He does not receive any remuneration from the third is Lord Rothschild, the Chairman of the Committee.
Group other than his Director's fee.
The Committee meets at least once each year and on additional occasions as required.
It is responsible for the There are no relationships or circumstances likely to process of the appointment of new Directors to the affect the judgement of Mr Marks, who continues to Board, and other matters set out in its Terms of challenge objectively and robustly question Reference including overall Board composition, management.
succession planning, and the annual performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and the During the year, the Committee evaluated and Directors.
recommended the appointment of one new Director to the Board, oversaw the rotation of members on the Audit The Committee is mindful of Board balance and diversity, and Risk Committee and discharged its other including gender, when considering appointments to the responsibilities as summarised above.
Neither open advertising nor external search consultancies have been used for non-executive Director The Remuneration Committee appointments, as the Board and Nominations Committee The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages utilise their broad range of business contacts to identify 32 to 38. candidates on the basis of their potential contribution to the Company.
The Valuation Committee The Valuation Committee comprises four Directors, all of The Committee considered and confirmed the whom are independent.
The Committee, chaired by John independent status of those Directors so designated.
Cornish, meets at least twice each year and additionally Mr Marks has served for more than nine years and his as may be required.
Its principal responsibility is to review independence was confirmed after consideration of the the Companys direct private and other investments to following: ensure that they are presented in the annual and halfyearly accounts at fair value.
Board and Committee Attendance The Board and Committee attendance of the Directors during the year is shown below.
In each case the number of meetings attended is shown first, followed by the number of meetings that the Director was eligible to attend as a member of the Board or Committee.
Board Audit & Risk Conflicts Nominations Remuneration Valuation Number of meetings held during the year 441123 Chairman Lord Rothschild 4 4 1 1 Non-executive Directors John Cornish 3 4 4 4 1 1 2 2 3 3 Jean Laurent-Bellue 3 4 1 John Makinson 3 3 3 3 Michael Marks 3 4 1 1 0 1 2 2 Lord Myners 3 4 1 1 3 3 Mike Power 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 Sandra Robertson 2 2 1 1 Hannah Rothschild 3 4 3 Amy Stirling 2 3 3 3 2 2 The Duke of Wellington 4 4 1 1 1 1 2 2 Mike Wilson 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 John Makinson retired as a Director on 30 September 2015.
2 Sandra Robertson retired as a Director on 30 April 2015.
3 Amy Stirling was appointed as a Director on 26 February 2015.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 25 Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness satisfactory performance.
Therefore, neither the Many of the Directors hold or have held senior positions Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that it at prominent investment banks, asset management would be in the best interests of the Company for noncompanies or audit firms specialising in the asset executive Directors to be appointed for specified terms.
In addition, there are Directors The re-election of Directors at the forthcoming Annual with considerable experience beyond these areas, General Meeting is therefore recommended by the including Government and general commercial Board.
The biographies of the Directors and Accountability executive management on pages 20 to 23 demonstrate a The presentation of the Companys prospects and strength of experience in the areas required to oversee position in these Report and Accounts taken as a whole and implement the Companys strategic, investment and is considered by the Board to be fair, balanced and operational aims.
As described above, the process for the appointment of The Board, acting where appropriate through the Audit new Directors to the Board is the responsibility of the and Risk Committee, is responsible for determining the Nominations Committee, as is their induction and nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take ensuring on an ongoing basis that each Director is able to in achieving its strategic objectives.
It is also responsible allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their for maintaining sound risk management and internal responsibilities effectively.
control systems, for setting corporate reporting, risk JRCM provides relevant and timely information on management and internal control principles and for financial and regulatory developments in the papers maintaining an appropriate relationship with the provided for Board and Committee meetings.
These areas are further described in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 29 to 31.
The Board annually undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its performance, its committees and Relations with Shareholders individual Directors.
This exercise is led by Michael The Board ensures that an ongoing dialogue with Marks, the Senior Independent Director.
Every third year, institutional shareholders and analysts is maintained, the evaluation is conducted externally and the most based on a mutual understanding of the Companys recent assessment was carried out by Trust Associates in objectives.
Responses from other shareholders are 2015.
Following the Trust Associates review, all Directors responded to promptly.
performance was considered to be satisfactory.
The JRCM reports to the Board on its institutional shareholder report was then discussed with the Chairman, and and analyst meetings to ensure that the members of the considered in documented form, at the annual meeting of Board understand the views of major shareholders about non-executive Directors held in January 2016.
Associates has no other connection with the Company.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual All Directors other than those who are retiring stand for General Meeting and ask questions of the Directors and re-election annually, subject of course to continued management.
26 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Code The Company has complied with all relevant provisions of the Code during the year, save as follows: Code provision Explanation The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should not As described above, the structure of Board committees and be exercised by the same individual.
the formal delegation of day-to-day management of the business to the Executive Committee of JRCM devolve executive responsibilities away from Lord Rothschild.
He retains membership of the Investment Committee.
Non-executive Directors should be appointed for specified As all Directors stand for re-election annually, subject to terms.
continued satisfactory performance, neither the Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that it would be in the best interests of the Company for nonexecutive Directors to be appointed for specified terms.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Statement of Directors Responsibilities accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable and Accounts, in accordance with applicable law and accuracy at any time the financial position of the regulations.
Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 as Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company amended and, as regards the Group financial statements, financial statements in accordance with International Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the not approve the financial statements unless they are prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these United Kingdom governing the preparation and financial statements, the Directors are required to: dissemination of financial statements may differ from select suitable accounting policies and then apply legislation in other jurisdictions.
them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 27 Corporate Governance Report The Directors consider that the Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and responsibilities are listed in the Corporate Governance Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Directors Report contains a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited 28 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc
