Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Hayden, Responsibilities operates within clearly defined terms of reference The main duties of the Audit Committee are: which are available from the Companys website www.
com and include all matters reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1, Financial Statements of the Company and any formal the AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Code.
announcements relating to the Companys financial Its other members are Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
performance, reviewing significant financial reporting Ms. Whittet was also formally appointed to the Audit judgements contained in them: Committee from 28 July 2015.
Only independent reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of Directors can serve on the Audit Committee, not the Companys accounting policies and practices: including the Chairman of the Company, who may, however, be invited to attend.
Members of the Audit reviewing the valuations of the Companys Committee must be independent of the Companys investments prepared by the Investment Manager, external auditor and Investment Manager.
Appointments and making a recommendation to the Board on the to the Committee shall be for a period of up to three valuation of the Companys investments: years, extendable for two further three-year periods.
meeting the external auditor to review their The Audit Committee will meet no less than three times proposed audit programme of work and the in a year, and at such other times as the Audit Committee subsequent audit report and assess the effectiveness chairman shall require, and will meet the external auditor of the audit process and the levels of fees paid in at least once a year.
respect of both audit and non-audit work: The Board has taken note of the requirement that at making recommendations to the Board in relation to least one member of the Audit Committee should have the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied external auditor and approving their remuneration that the Audit Committee is properly constituted in that and the terms of their engagement: respect, with all members being highly experienced and in particular, one member having a background as a monitoring and reviewing annually the external chartered accountant.
auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification: The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual Report considering annually whether there is a need for the and Financial Statements and Interim Financial Report, Company to have its own internal audit function: the valuation of the Companys investment portfolio, the monitoring the internal financial control and risk system of internal controls, and the terms of appointment management systems on which the Company is of the external auditor together with its remuneration.
reliant: and It is also the formal forum through which the external auditor reports to the Board.
The objectivity of the reviewing and considering the Corporate external auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee Governance Code, the AIC Code, the GFSC Code, which also reviews the terms under which the external the AIC Guidance on Audit Committees and the auditor is appointed to perform non-audit services and Stewardship Code.
the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
The Audit Committee is aware that several sections of The Audit Committee reviews, considers and, if the Annual Report are not subject to formal statutory thought appropriate, recommends for the purposes of the audit, including the Chairmans Statement and the Companys Financial Statements, valuations prepared by Investment Managers Report.
Financial information in the Investment Manager in respect of the investments of these sections is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit Committee meetings at which the Annual Report and Interim Financial Report are considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without representatives of the Investment Manager or Administrator being present at least once per year.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED detailed review of the valuations of the Companys Financial Reporting investment portfolio and recommendation for The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to approval by the Board: financial reporting is to review with the Administrator, detailed review of the Annual Report and Financial Investment Manager and the external auditor and report Statements, Interim Financial Report and quarterly to the Board on the appropriateness of the Annual portfolio valuations, and recommendation for Report and Financial Statements and Interim Financial approval by the Board: Report, concentrating on, amongst other matters: assessment of the independence of the external auditor: the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process as described below: and the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial review of the Companys key risks and internal controls.
and governance reporting requirements: material areas in which significant judgements have Significant Areas of Judgement been applied or there has been discussion with the The Audit Committee has determined that a key risk external auditor: of misstatement of the Companys Financial Statements whether the Annual Report and Financial relates to the valuation of the investment in the Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Partnership at fair value through profit or loss, in the understandable and provides the information context of the judgements necessary to evaluate market necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys values of the Investment Undertakings of the Partnership.
performance, business model and strategy: and The Directors have considered whether any discount any correspondence from regulators in relation to our or premium should be applied to the net asset value of financial reporting.
In view of the Companys investment in the Partnership and the nature of the Partnerships assets, To aid its review, the Audit Committee considers reports no adjustment to the net asset value of the Partnership from the Administrator and Investment Manager and also has been made, as this is deemed equivalent to fair value.
reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their half-year review and annual audit.
The Audit As outlined in Note 6 to the Financial Statements, the Committee supports Ernst and Young LLP in displaying total carrying value of the investment in the Partnership at the necessary professional scepticism their role requires.
fair value through profit or loss at 31 December 2015 was $1,345 million 31 December 2014: $1,234 million.
Market quotations are not available for this financial asset Meetings such that the value of the Companys investment is based During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Audit on the value of the Companys limited partner capital Committee met formally four times and maintained account with the Partnership, which itself is based on the ongoing liaison and discussion between the external value of the Partnerships investments as determined by auditor and the chair of the Audit Committee with the Investment Manager, along with the cash and fixed regards to the audit approach and the identified risks.
The valuation for each individual investment The Audit Committee has met on one occasion since held by the Partnership is determined by reference the year end through to the date of this report on to common industry valuation techniques, including 25 February 2016.
The matters discussed at those comparable public market valuation, comparable merger meetings include: and acquisition transaction valuation, and discounted cash flow valuation, as detailed in the Investment review of the terms of reference of the audit Managers Report on page 24 and Note 5 to the committee for approval by the Board: Financial Statements.
review of the accounting policies and format of the The valuation process and methodology was Financial Statements: discussed with the Investment Manager and with the review and approval of the audit plan of the external external auditor at an Audit Committee meeting held on auditor: 25 February 2016.
The Investment Manager has carried out a valuation quarterly and provided a detailed discussion and approval of the fee for the external audit: valuation report to the Company at each quarter.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment The Audit Committee will continue to monitor the Managers Report.
The Investment Manager confirmed performance of the external auditor on an annual basis to the Audit Committee that the external auditors work and will consider their independence and objectivity, had not identified any errors or inconsistencies that were taking account of appropriate guidelines.
material in the context of the Annual Report and The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of Financial Statements as a whole.
the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and The external auditor explained the results of their objectivity of the external auditor, with particular regard review of the valuations, including their assessment of to the level of non-audit fees.
Notwithstanding such services managements valuation of those Investment Undertakings the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be remaining at 1.0x Gross MOIC.
On the basis of their independent of the Company and that the provision of audit work, there were no adjustments proposed that such non-audit services is not a threat to the objectivity were material in the context of the Annual Report and and independence of the conduct of the audit.
To further safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor from becoming compromised, the Audit Committee has a formal policy Risk Management governing the engagement of the external auditor to The Companys risk assessment process and the way in provide non-audit services.
This precludes Ernst & Young which significant business risks are managed is a key area LLP from providing certain services such as valuation of focus for the Audit Committee.
The work of the Audit work or the provision of accounting services and also Committee was driven primarily by the Companys sets a presumption that Ernst & Young LLP should only assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties as set be engaged for non-audit services where Ernst & Young out in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Audit LLP are best placed to provide the non-audit service Committee receives reports from the Investment Manager for example, the interim review and reporting accountant and Administrator on the Companys risk evaluation services.
Note 15 details services provided by Ernst & process and reviews changes to significant risks identified.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence Internal Audit of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considers: The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year discussions with or reports from the external auditor whether or not there is a need for an internal audit describing its arrangements to identify, report and function.
Currently, the Audit Committee does not manage any conflicts of interest: and consider there to be a need for an internal audit the extent of non-audit services provided by the function, given that there are no employees in the external auditor.
Company and all outsourced functions are with parties who have their own internal controls and procedures.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the committee reviews: External Audit the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from it: Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external auditor since the Companys incorporation.
This is the discussions or reports highlighting the major issues third year of audit.
that arose during the course of the audit: and The external auditor is required to rotate the audit feedback from other service providers evaluating the partner every five years.
The current partner is in his performance of the audit team.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor and the Company will put the audit services contract out to tender at least every ten years in line with the FRCs suggestions on audit tendering for FTSE 350 companies.
This will be considered further when the audit partner rotates every five years.
Under Companies Law, the reappointment of the external auditor is subject to Shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The AQRT of the Financial Reporting Council carries out inspections of the audits of public interest entities in the UK and Crown Dependencies, including Guernsey.
Each year the AQRT routinely selects a number of audits carried out by the large audit firms, including Ernst & Young LLP, with a view to inspecting the audits of all FTSE 250 companies over a five year cycle.
Ernst & Young LLPs audit of the Companys 31 December 2014 Financial Statements was part of this routine inspection programme in the 2014 2015 cycle.
The inspection was carried out during the second half of 2015 and the results of the inspection were reported to Ernst & Young LLP and the Company in December 2015.
The AQRT reported two findings from their work.
These have been carefully considered by the Audit Committee.
They have also been discussed between Ernst & Young LLP and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP has appropriately responded to these findings in the 2015 audit and that the quality of the 2014 audit was not compromised.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with Ernst & Young LLPs effectiveness and independence as external auditor having considered the degree of diligence and professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
Having carried out the review described above, and having satisfied itself that the external auditor remains independent and effective, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016.
The Audit Committee has provided the Board with its recommendation to the Shareholders on the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016.
Accordingly a resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as our external auditor will be put to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Richard Hayden Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 February 2016
