| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Audit and Risk Committee Report The Audit and Risk Committee I am pleased to present the Report of the Audit and Risk The Committee also reviews the Groups whistleblowing Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015. procedures for staff to follow in the event that they might have any concerns about possible improprieties in The Committee has oversight responsibilities delegated matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The to it by the Board in three principal areas: financial procedures in place provide for staff to have direct reporting and audit, risk management and the recourse to the Committee, through its Chairman.
engagement of the external auditor.
The responsibilities are set out in more detail in the Committees Terms of The most significant matters considered by the Reference, which may be viewed at www.
Committee during the year included: Committee composition UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 The Committee comprises four Directors, each of whom The Committee reviewed the information and analysis is non-executive and independent of the Company.
The provided by the Manager to support the additional Board is satisfied that I have requisite recent and relevant disclosures required to be made to shareholders in the financial experience to chair the Committee: I am a annual report as follows: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, a The confirmation that the Directors have carried out former Partner at Deloitte LLP and also chair the audit a robust assessment of principal risks, as described committees of two other public companies.
on pages 15 to 18: The composition of the Committee changed during the The statement that the Board monitors risk year: Lord Myners stepped down as a member of the management and internal control systems, reviews Committee on 30 April and was replaced by Amy Stirling their effectiveness at least annually and reports on on the same date.
John Makinson retired as a Director on these in the annual report: 30 September and was replaced on the Committee by Mike Wilson on 15 October.
Mike Power served as a The statement on Going Concern, shown on member of the Committee throughout the year.
page 18: and All of the three other members of the Committee at the The Viability Statement shown on page 18. year end have recent and relevant financial experience and two others are also Fellows of the Institute of The Valuation of Direct Private Investments Chartered Accountants.
Their individual biographies are Direct private investments comprise approximately 9% of shown on pages 20 and 21. net assets.
By their very nature such investments merit individual attention when considering their fair value.
The Committee meetings and activity during the year estimation of fair value requires the exercise of The Committee meets twice each year to review the considerable judgement and most likely the use of a Groups half-yearly and annual financial statements.
The range of valuation techniques.
This subjectivity means reviews include the assessment and assurance that the that there is a higher degree of uncertainty in such reports, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and valuations compared with those of other assets.
understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and The Committee has considered the work of the Valuation performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee and the results of the discussions of that Committee also considers reports from the external committee with both the Manager and the external auditors and discusses any matters arising with the auditors.
We consider the work to be detailed, Manager.
The adequacy of the Groups accounting comprehensive and that the persons preparing the policies and financial reporting procedures are discussed reports have sufficient and appropriate expertise through with the external auditor at least annually.
Furthermore we believe that the process is planned and managed so as to Two further meetings of the Committee are held each devote adequate time and resource to preparation and year to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk review by both the Manager and the members of the management and internal controls, by reference to Valuation Committee.
reports prepared by the Managers, its internal audit function and BNP Paribas Securities Services as Depositary.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 29 Audit and Risk Committee Report Related Party Disclosures Related party transactions are a common feature of As part of the review of the control environment, an commerce and business.
The Group often takes internal audit of selected areas is undertaken.
This is advantage of opportunities offered to it, or services performed on an annual basis and follows a rolling provided to it via the many relationships it and its programme targeting key areas.
The precise scope and Directors has built up over time.
Disclosure of such depth of the remit is subject to ongoing review.
Where transactions is a legal requirement in order to allow required improvements are identified, timetables are shareholders and other users of the financial statements agreed for implementing these and progress is monitored to assess the risks and opportunities facing the Group.
Clear and direct reporting lines Any failure to properly address this requirement could between those conducting the reviews and the Chairman expose the Group to legal, regulatory or reputational risk.
of the Audit and Risk Committee have been established to maximise the independence of the function from We consider the work of the Conflicts Committee in JRCMs executive management.
reviewing cost sharing arrangements, co-investment transactions and any other similar arrangements with JRCM also monitors the compliance of external parties related to any Director, and have discussed with managers with the terms of their investment the Manager the systems and processes in place to management arrangements as well as reviewing their identify, review, record and disclose such transactions.
We note the importance the Chairman and the Manager The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key place upon this.
We have reviewed the disclosures made systems of internal control in operation during the in the financial statements regarding such transactions financial year, and up to the date of this report, through and consider them to be the result of a process designed the Audit and Risk Committee.
During the course of the to ensure that not only are the transactions themselves reviews conducted, the Audit and Risk Committee has on appropriate terms but that the necessary disclosures not identified or been apprised of any failings or have been made.
weaknesses representing a significant business risk.
Internal Control The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
system of internal control although it has delegated the Duties are segregated to an extent commensurate with supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk the size of the Groups organisation and business Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, environment.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only External Auditors reasonable and not absolute assurance against any The external auditors are  LLP material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to JRCM the implementation of PwC attended the meeting of the Committee at which the system of internal control within an established the annual accounts were considered and provided framework acceptable throughout the Group.
The system reports on their audit approach and work undertaken, the of internal control is reviewed twice each year.
The Board quality and effectiveness of the Groups accounting considers that the necessary procedures in place are records and their findings in connection with the Groups consistent with the Guidance on Risk Management, annual statutory audit.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in The Committee considers PwCs independence, September 2014 and previously the relevant sections of objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012. through formal and informal feedback from the Manager.
30 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Audit and Risk Committee Report PwC, or its antecedent firms, have been the Groups auditors since inception and there has not been an audit tender process.
The Committee intends to tender the statutory audit in advance of the required deadline of 2020 in accordance with the requirements set out by the Competition & Markets Authority on audit tendering.
The level of non-audit services provided to the Group by the auditors is monitored as is the auditors objectivity in providing such service, to ensure that the independence of the audit team from the Group is not compromised.
Non-audit services provided by PwC in the year ended 31 December 2015 totalled 67,000 and were primarily in relation to taxation services.
Their selection for this work was due to their expertise in this area.
Further information on fees paid to PwC is set out in note5to the financial statements.
John Cornish Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 31
