Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT All companies with a premium listing of equity shares in For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as the UK are required under the Listing Rules to report explained in the Corporate Governance Code, the Board on how they have applied the Corporate Governance considers that the above provisions are not currently Code in their Annual Report and Financial Statements.
relevant to the position of the Company, being an The Directors recognise the importance of sound externally managed investment company, which delegates corporate governance, particularly the requirements of most day-to-day functions to third parties.
The Company does not have a chief executive or any The Company became a member of the AIC executive directors.
The Company has not established a effective 15 January 2014 and has therefore put in place separate remuneration committee as the Company has no arrangements to comply with the AIC Code and, in executive officers and the Board is satisfied that any relevant accordance with the AIC Code, voluntarily complies with issues that arise can be properly considered by the Board.
The Company is subject The Company has no employees or internal to the GFSC Code, which applies to all companies operations and has therefore not reported further in registered as collective investment schemes in Guernsey.
The need for an internal audit The GFSC has also confirmed that companies that function is discussed in the Audit Committee report.
report against the Corporate Governance Code or AIC Code are deemed to meet the GFSC Code.
The Board The Board monitors developments in corporate The Company believes that the composition of the Board governance to ensure the Board remains aligned with is a fundamental driver of its success as the Board must best practice especially with respect to the increased focus provide strong and effective leadership of the Company.
The Board acknowledges the importance of The current Board was selected, as their biographies on diversity, including gender, for the effective functioning pages 30 to 32 illustrate, to bring a breadth of knowledge, of the Board and commits to supporting diversity in the skills and business experience to the Company.
It is the Boards ongoing aspiration to have a well diversified representation.
The Board also values The Board consists of eight Non-Executive Directors diversity of business skills and experience because Directors 31 December 2014: nine, five of whom, including the with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained Chairman, are independent of the Companys Investment from different geographical backgrounds enhance the Board Manager: Sir Robert Wilson, Mr Barker, Mr Firth, by bringing a wide range of perspectives to the Company.
Mr Hayden and Ms Whittet 31 December 2014: five.
Mr Hackett, Mr Lapeyre and Mr Leuschen are not The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, considered independent because of their nomination addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate for appointment to the Board by the Investment Governance Code, as well as setting out additional Manager, pursuant to a right set out in the Investment principles and recommendations on issues that are of Management Agreement.
specific relevance to investment companies such as the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the The Chairman of the Board must be independent principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, by and is appointed in accordance with the Companys reference to the AIC Guide, provides better information Articles of Incorporation.
Sir Robert Wilson is to Shareholders.
considered to be independent because he: The AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on has no current or historical employment with the the AICs website, www.
The Corporate Investment Manager: Governance Code is available on the Financial has no current directorships or partnerships in any Reporting Councils website, www.
other investment funds managed by the Investment The Company has complied with the recommendations Manager: and of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the is not an executive of a self-managed company or an Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
ex-employee who has left the executive team of a The Corporate Governance Code includes provisions self-managed company within the last five years.
relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements New Directors receive an induction from the Investment Director retires, the Company neither re-elects that Manager and all Directors receive other relevant training Director nor appoints another person to the Board in the as necessary.
place of that Director, the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been re-elected unless at the At each subsequent Annual General Meeting of the general meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or Company, each of the Directors at the date of the notice unless a resolution for the re-election of the Director is convening the Annual General Meeting shall retire from put to the meeting and not passed.
office and may offer themselves for election or re-election by the Shareholders.
Directors do not have service contracts.
Directors are appointed under letters of appointment, copies of which The Board meets at least four times a year for regular, are available at the registered office of the Company.
scheduled meetings and, should the nature of the activity The Board considers its composition and succession of the Company require it, additional meetings may be planning on an ongoing basis.
held, some at short notice.
At each meeting the Board follows a formal agenda that covers the business to be Directors Remuneration discussed.
The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters The level of remuneration of the non-executive such as asset allocation, share price discount premium Directors reflects the time commitment and management, investor relations, peer group information, responsibilities of their roles.
The remuneration of gearing, industry issues and principal risks and uncertainties the non-executive Directors does not include any in particular those identified at the end of this report.
share options or other performance related elements and there are no plans to seek any Shareholder waivers Between meetings there is regular contact with the to deviate from this or to increase the existing level Investment Manager and the Administrator, and the of remuneration set for non-executive Directors.
Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Manager, the Company The Chairman is entitled to annual remuneration Secretary and other advisers in a form and of a quality to of $176,809 120,000 31 December 2014: $186,960 enable it to discharge its duties.
The other independent Directors are entitled to annual remuneration of $88,404 60,000 Following discussion, it is the opinion of the 31 December 2014: $93,480 60,000.
The three Management Engagement Committee that the non-independent Directors have chosen not to be performance of the Investment Manager for the year remunerated by the Company for their services.
ended 31 December 2015 was satisfactory and the continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on During the year ended 31 December 2015 and the terms agreed is in the interests of the Shareholders as 31 December 2014, the Directors remuneration was a whole.
The Board consider the performance of the as follows: Investment Manager based, on selection of high quality 2015 2014 E&P and midstream investments and comparative $000 $000 resilience in weak markets, to be satisfactory.
1 Sir Robert Wilson 177 187 1 Peter Barker 88 93 Board Tenure and Re-election 3 Lord John Browne 1 No member of the Board has served for longer than Patrick Firth 88 93 eight years to date.
As such no issue has arisen to be James Hackett 1 2 Richard Hayden 88 93 considered by the Board with respect to long tenure.
In Pierre Lapeyre accordance with the AIC Code, when and if any director David Leuschen shall have been in office or on re-election would at the 3 Dr Tidu Maini 32 93 end of that term of office for more than nine years the 4 Claire Whittet 56 Company will consider further whether there is a risk that such a director might reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through such long service.
The above fees due to the Directors are for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, A Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting and none were outstanding at 31 December 2015 may, if willing to continue to act, be elected or re-elected 31 December 2014: $Nil.
If, at a general meeting at which a 1 3 Non-executive Independent Director Stepped down from their duties on the Board on 13 May 2015 2 4 Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board on 13 May 2015 Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Directors have access to the advice and services of Duties and Responsibilities the Administrator, who is responsible to the Board for The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the overall ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it management of the Company.
The duties and powers complies with Companies Law and applicable rules and reserved for the Board include decisions relating to the regulations of the GFSC and the LSE.
Where necessary, determination of investment policy and approval of in carrying out their duties, the Directors may seek investments in certain instances, strategy, capital raising, independent professional advice and services at the statutory obligations and public disclosure, financial expense of the Company.
The Company maintains reporting and entering into any material contracts by directors and officers liability insurance in respect of the Company.
legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis.
The Board has overall responsibility for maximising The Boards responsibilities for the Annual Report the Companys success by directing and supervising the are set out in the Directors Responsibility Statement affairs of the business and meeting the appropriate on page 38.
The Board is also responsible for issuing interests of Shareholders and relevant stakeholders, while appropriate half-yearly financial reports, quarterly portfolio enhancing the value of the Company and also ensuring valuations and other price-sensitive public reports.
A summary of the Boards responsibilities is as follows: statutory obligations and public disclosure: strategic matters and financial reporting: risk assessment and management including reporting, compliance, governance, monitoring and control: and other matters having a material effect on the Company.
Directors attendance at Board and Committee Meetings: One of the key criteria the Company uses when selecting non-executive Directors is their confirmation prior to their appointment that they will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities in a timely and effective manner.
The Board formally met four times during the year with attendance further set out below: Management Scheduled Board Audit Nomination Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director max 4 max 2 max 4 max 1 max 1 1 Sir Robert Wilson 4 n a n a 11 1 Peter Barker 4 n a 41 1 3 Lord John Browne 1 n a n a n a n a 1 Patrick Firth 42 411 James Hackett 4 n a n a n a n a 1 2 Richard Hayden 4 n a 4 n a n a Pierre Lapeyre 4 n a n a n a n a David Leuschen 4 n a n a n a n a 1 3 Dr Tidu Maini 2 n a n a n a n a 4 5 Claire Whittet 32 1 n a n a A quorum is comprised of any two or more members of the Board from time to time, to perform administrative and other routine functions on behalf of the board, subject to such limitations as the Board may expressly impose on this committee from time to time.
1 5 Non-executive Independent Director Ms. Whittet was appointed to the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Management Engagement Committee from 2 Senior Independent Director 28 July 2015, at which point two Audit Committee Meetings, 3 Stepped down from their duties on the Board on 13 May 2015 one Nomination Committee Meeting and one Management 4 Ms. Whittet was appointed to the Board from 13 May 2015, Engagement Committee Meeting had already taken place at which point one Board Meeting had already taken place Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements The Board also believes that diversity of experience and Committees of the Board approach, including gender diversity, amongst Board members is of great importance and it is the Companys Audit Committee policy to give careful consideration to issues of Board The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Hayden and balance and diversity when making new appointments.
comprises Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
Ms. Whittet was The Board is satisfied with the current composition also formally appointed to the Audit Committee on and functioning of its members.
The chair of the Audit Committee, members, its priority is based on merit, but will be the Investment Manager and the external auditor, influenced by the strong desire to maintain board Ernst & Young LLP, have held discussions regarding the diversity, including gender.
audit approach and identified risks.
The Audit Committee activities are contained in the Report of the Audit All Directors are subject to annual re-election by Committee on pages 47 to 50.
The Audit Committee Shareholders at the AGM.
has terms of reference which are available on the Companys website www.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee is chaired Nomination Committee by Sir Robert Wilson and comprises Mr Barker, The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir Robert Mr Firth and Ms. Whittet was also formally appointed Wilson and comprises Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
to the Management Engagement Committee on Ms. Whittet was also formally appointed to the 28 July 2015.
The Management Engagement Committee Nomination Committee on 28 July 2015 following her meets at least once a year pursuant to its terms of election to the Board at the AGM on 13 May 2015. reference which are available on the Companys website At a Board meeting on 13 April 2015, the Nomination www.
Committee recommended to the Board that Ms. Whittet The Management Engagement Committee provides be added as an additional Director to the Board at the a formal mechanism for the review of the performance AGM, which the Board approved.
In advance of making of the Investment Manager and the Companys other their proposal, the Nomination Committee, which utilised advisors and service providers.
It carries out this review the Directors existing network rather than an external through consideration of a number of objective and search consultancy or open advertising, presented the subjective criteria and through a review of the terms and two most suitable candidates to the Chairman of the conditions of the advisors appointments with the aim of Board for an interview.
The Nomination Committee evaluating performance, identifying any weaknesses and had confirmed to the Board that the proposed candidates ensuring value for money for the Shareholders.
were independent, resident in Guernsey, and had relevant experience with listed businesses, similar in both size and Following discussion, it is the opinion of the composition to the Company.
The Chairman advised that Management Engagement Committee that the following the interview process, each candidate had met performance of the Investment Manager for the year with the Directors either in person or had spoken with ended 31 December 2015 was satisfactory and the them on the telephone.
continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of the Shareholders The Nomination Committee meets at least once a as a whole.
The Board consider the performance of the year pursuant to its terms of reference which are available Investment Manager based, on selection of high quality on the Companys website www.
com E&P and midstream investments and comparative and met on 25 February 2016.
The Nomination resilience in weak markets, to be satisfactory.
Committee is convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of additional Directors as and when Board Performance and Evaluation considered appropriate.
In considering appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee takes into In accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code which account the ongoing requirements of the Company and requires a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence, performance, the Board formally reviews its performance and knowledge of each candidate.
The Board believes annually through an internal process.
Internal evaluation that the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination ensure that it operates in a rigorous and transparent Committee, the Management Engagement Committee manner.
The Board believes that, as a whole, it comprises and individual Directors has taken the form of self-appraisal an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
questionnaires and discussions to determine effectiveness and performance in various areas as well as the Directors continued independence.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED During the year, a formal Board performance the Board monitors the actions of the Investment appraisal was carried out.
The results have been collated Manager at regular Board meetings and is given and reviewed whereby it was noted that overall frequent updates on developments arising from the performance of the Board during the year had been operations and strategic direction of the underlying satisfactory and that the Board is confident in its ability investee companies: to continue effectively to lead the Company and oversee the Administrator provides administration and its affairs.
The Board believes that the current mix of company secretarial services to the Company.
skills, experience, knowledge and age of the Directors The Administrator maintains a system of internal is appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
control on which they report to the Board: and New Directors receive an induction on joining the the Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit Board and regularly meet with the senior management function and has decided that the systems and employed by the Investment Manager both formally and procedures employed by the Administrator and informally to ensure that the Board remains regularly Investment Manager, including their own internal updated on all issues.
All members of the Board are controls and procedures, provide sufficient assurance members of professional bodies and serve on other that an appropriate level of risk management and Boards, which ensures they are kept abreast of the latest internal control, which safeguards Shareholders technical developments in their areas of expertise.
investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
The Board arranges for presentations from the An internal audit function specific to the Company Investment Manager, the Companys brokers and other is therefore considered unnecessary.
advisors on matters relevant to the Companys business.
The Administrator and Investment Manager both operate The Board assesses the training needs of Directors on risk controlled frameworks on a continual ongoing basis an annual basis.
The Administrator has undertaken an ISAE 3402: Assurance Reports on Controls at a Service Organisation audit and formally reports to Internal Control and Financial the Board quarterly through a compliance report.
The Reporting Investment Manager formally reports to the Board quarterly including updates within Riverstone and also The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for engages with the Board on an ad-hoc basis as required.
establishing and maintaining the Companys system of No weaknesses or failings within the Administrator or internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal Investment Manager have been identified.
control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and The systems of control referred to above are designed can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance to ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal against material misstatements or loss.
The Directors control and compliance with laws and regulations.
In carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing establishing the systems of internal control, regard is paid the Company, including those that would threaten its to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
being incurred and costs of control.
It follows therefore The key procedures which have been established to that the systems of internal control can only provide provide internal control are that: reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
the Board has delegated the day-to-day operations of the Company to the Administrator and Investment Manager: however, it retains accountability for all Investment Management Agreement functions it delegates: The Investment Manager has been appointed as the sole the Board clearly defines the duties and investment manager of the Company and the responsibilities of the Companys agents and advisors Partnership.
Pursuant to the Investment Management and appointments are made by the Board after due Agreement, the Investment Manager has responsibility and careful consideration.
The Board monitors the for and discretion over investing and managing the ongoing performance of such agents and advisors and Companys and the Partnerships direct and indirect will continue to do so through the Management assets, subject to and in accordance with the Companys Engagement Committee: investment policy.
The Investment Manager is entitled to delegate all or part of its functions under the Investment Management Agreement to one or more of its affiliates.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements The Company has delegated the provision of all Each Director is fully aware of the risks inherent in services to external service providers whose work is the Companys business and understands the importance overseen by the Management Engagement Committee of identifying, evaluating and monitoring these risks.
at its regular scheduled meetings.
Each year a detailed The Board has adopted procedures and controls that enable review of performance pursuant to their terms of it to carry out a robust assessment of the risks facing the engagement is undertaken by the Management Company, manage these risks within acceptable limits Engagement Committee.
and to meet all of its legal and regulatory obligations.
In accordance with Listing Rule 15.6.
2 2 R and The Board thoroughly considers the process for having formally appraised the performance and resources identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks of the Investment Manager, in the opinion of the faced by the Company on an ongoing basis and these risks Directors their continuing appointment of the are reported and discussed at Board meetings.
It ensures Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks interests of the Shareholders as a whole.
and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all applicable local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
Relations with Shareholders For each material risk, the likelihood and The Board welcomes Shareholders views and places consequence are identified, management controls and great importance on communication with its frequency of monitoring are confirmed and results Shareholders.
The Companys AGM provides a forum reported and discussed at the quarterly Board meetings.
for Shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the The Companys principal risk factors are fully Directors of the Company.
The Chairman and other discussed in the Prospectuses, available on the Companys directors are also available to meet with Shareholders website www.
com and should be at other times, if required.
In addition, the Company reviewed by Shareholders.
com which contains comprehensive information, including company The key areas of risk faced by the Company are notifications, share information, financial reports, summarised below: investment objectives and policy, investor contacts and 1.
The Company intends to only invest in the global information on the Board and corporate governance.
energy sector, with a particular focus on oil and The Investment Manager has regular contact with gas exploration and production, and midstream Shareholders, in particular Cornerstone Investors, and investments, which will expose it to concentration risk.
any views that they may have are communicated to the 2.
The Ordinary Shares may trade at a discount to NAV Board and vice versa.
No sensitive information is per Share for reasons including but not limited to: provided to the Cornerstone Investors that is not market conditions, liquidity concerns and actual provided to the Shareholders as a whole and at the same or expected Company performance.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant guarantee that attempts to mitigate such discount market commentary on the Company by the Investment will be successful or that the use of discount control Manager and the Corporate Brokers.
mechanisms will be possible, advisable or adopted by the Company.
Investments in the exploration and production and The Companys assets consist of investments, through midstream sectors of the global energy sector involve the Partnership, within the global energy sector, with a a degree of inherent risk.
particular focus on opportunities in the global exploration The countries in which the Company invests may and production and midstream energy sub-sectors.
Its be exposed to geopolitical risks.
principal risks are therefore related to market conditions in the energy sector in general, but also the particular The change in the price of oil could adversely circumstances of the businesses in which it is invested affect the investment valuations through the through the Partnership.
The Investment Manager to the public market trading and transaction Partnership seeks to mitigate these risks through active comparables, the discounted cash flow discount asset management initiatives and carrying out due rates, and potentially limit exit opportunities.
diligence work on potential targets before entering into A change in interest rates could adversely affect any investments.
efficient access to debt as a source of capital for both portfolio investments and potential buyers of portfolio investments.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The regulatory and tax environment of the Companys target investments is potentially subject to change, which may adversely affect the value or liquidity of investments held by the Company or its ability to obtain leverage.
The Company will be exposed to increased risk by investing in build-up and early-stage investments that have little or no operating history and are comparably more vulnerable to financial failure than more established companies.
The investor should be aware there can be no assurance that losses generated by these types of entities will be offset by gains if any realised on the Companys other investments.
An investments requirements for additional capital may require the Company to invest more capital than it had originally planned or result in the dilution of the Companys investment or a decrease in the value of that investment.
The Company may not have sufficient dry powder to participate in all investment opportunities presented.
These inherent risks associated with investments in the global energy sector could result in a material adverse effect on the Companys performance and the value of Ordinary Shares.
The above key risks are mitigated and managed by the Board through continual review, policy setting and updating of the Companys risk matrix at each Audit Committee Meeting to ensure that procedures are in place with the intention of minimising the impact of the above mentioned risks.
The Board relies on periodic reports provided by the Investment Manager and Administrator regarding risks that the Company faces.
When required, experts will be employed to gather information, including tax advisors, legal advisors, and environmental advisors.
The Companys financial instrument risks are discussed in Note 12 to the Financial Statements.
By order of the Board Sir Robert Wilson Chairman 25 February 2016
