For further Governance at a glance 29 information - 36 83 see pages Our Board Board of directors The Board has eleven directors comprising the Chairman, two executive directors and eight independent non-executive directors, one of Chairman Executive directors whom is the Senior Independent Director.
Howard Davies Ross McEwan Biographies for each director can be found on Ewen Stevenson pages 37 to 40.
In September 2015, Howard Davies was Non-executive directors appointed Chairman of RBS, succeeding Philip Sandy Crombie Hampton.
Mike Rogers was appointed to the Penny Hughes Senior Independent Director Board on 26 January 2016.
Brendan Nelson Alison Davis The Board is collectively responsible for the Baroness Noakes Morten Friis long-term success of RBS and delivery of Mike Rogers sustainable shareholder value.
Its role is to Robert Gillespie provide leadership of RBS within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel risks to be assessed and managed.
An external evaluation of the effectiveness of Aileen Taylor Company Secretary the Board and its committees was conducted in 2015, led by Condign Board Consulting Limited.
Governance at a glance Our Board committees RBS Capital Resolution RCR Board will be needed on the Board in future.
In order to provide effective oversight Oversight Committee In 2016, the Nominations Committee and leadership, the Board has established Provides oversight of RCRs progress will be replaced by the Nominations and a number of Board committees with against, and compliance with, its primary Governance Committee, which has an particular responsibilities.
The work of the objective and asset management expanded remit including governance Board committees is discussed in their principles.
The RCR BOC met for the oversight.
The terms of reference final time in January 2016 to finalise the for each of these committees is available closure of RCR.
The Board is supported by the Executive Sustainable Banking Committee Committee comprising the executive The full Governance report is on pages Provides support to the Board in directors and other senior executives.
It 36 to 83. overseeing actions being taken by supports the Chief Executive in managing management to run a sustainable long RBSs businesses.
It reviews and debates Group Audit Committee term business, with specific focus on relevant items before consideration by the Assists the Board in discharging its culture, people, customer, brand and Board.
It is responsible for developing and responsibilities for monitoring the quality of Environmental Social and Ethical issues.
delivering RBSs strategy and it monitors the financial statements of RBS.
It reviews and manages financial performance, the accounting policies, financial reporting Group Performance and capital allocation, risk strategy and policy, and regulatory compliance practices of Remuneration Committee risk management, operational issues and RBS and RBSs systems and standards of Responsible for approving remuneration customer issues.
internal controls, and monitors the work of policy and reviewing the effectiveness internal audit and external audit.
It also considers UK Corporate Governance Code senior executive remuneration and makes Throughout the year ended 31 December Board Risk Committee recommendations to the Board on the 2015, RBS has complied with all of Provides oversight and advice to the remuneration of executive directors.
the provisions of the UK Corporate Board on current and potential future Governance Code issued by the Financial risk exposures of RBS and future risk Group Nominations Committee Reporting Council dated September 2014 strategy.
It reviews RBSs compliance with Assists the Board in the selection and except in relation to provision D. 2.2 that approved risk appetite and oversees the appointment of directors.
It reviews the Group Performance and Remuneration operation of the RBS Policy Framework the structure, size and composition of Committee should have delegated and submissions to regulators.
the Board, and the membership and responsibility for setting remuneration for chairmanship of Board committees.
It the Chairman and executive directors.
considers succession planning taking into RBS considers that this is a matter which account the skills and expertise which should rightly be reserved for the Board.
