Governance Page Our Board 37 Corporate governance 41 Report of the Group Nominations Committee 47 Report of the Group Audit Committee 49 Report of the Board Risk Committee 55 Report of the RBS Capital Resolution RCR Board Oversight Committee 61 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee 62 Directors remuneration report 65 Other Remuneration Disclosures 81 Compliance report 84 Report of the directors 86 Statement of directors responsibilities 92 36 Our Board Chairman Howard Davies age 65 External appointment s : Nationality: British Independent director of Prudential plc Date of appointment: 14 July 2015 Board, and chair of the Risk Committee 1 September 2015 Chairman Member of the Regulatory and Compliance Advisory Board of Experience: Howard was Deputy Governor of the Millennium Management LLC Bank of England from 1995 to 1997 and Chairman Chair of the International Advisory of the UK Financial Services Authority from 1997 Council of the China Securities to 2003.
Howard was Director of the London Regulatory Commission School of Economics and Political Science from Member of the International Advisory 2003 until May 2011.
He is also Professor of Council of the China Banking Practice at the Paris Institute of Political Science Regulatory Commission Sciences Po.
Committee membership s : Group Nominations and Governance Howard recently chaired the UK Airports Committee Chairman Commission and is also the author of several books on financial subjects.
Executive directors Chief Executive Ross McEwan age 58 External appointment s : Nationality: New Zealand None Date of appointment: 1 October 2013 Committee membership s : Experience: Ross became Chief Executive of The Executive Committee Chairman Royal Bank of Scotland Group in October 2013.
Between August 2012 and September 2013, he was Chief Executive Officer for UK Retail, joining from Commonwealth Bank of Australia where he was Group Executive for Retail Banking Services for five years.
Prior to this he was Executive General Manager with responsibility for the branch network, contact centres and third party mortgage brokers.
Ross has more than 25 years experience in the finance, insurance and investment industries.
Prior to Commonwealth Bank of Australia, he was Managing Director of First NZ Capital Securities.
He was also Chief Executive of National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd AXA New Zealand Ltd. Ross has an MBA from Harvard.
Chief Financial Officer Ewen Stevenson age 49 External appointment s : Nationality: British New Zealand None Date of appointment: 19 May 2014 Committee membership s : Experience: Prior to his current role, Ewen was at Executive Committee Credit Suisse for 25 years where he was latterly co-Head of the EMEA Investment Banking Division and co-Head of the Global Financial Institutions Group.
He has over 20 years of experience advising the banking sector while at Credit Suisse.
Ewen has a Bachelor of Commerce and Administration majoring in Accountancy and a Bachelor of Law from Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand.
37 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Sandy Crombie age 67 External appointment s : Nationality: British President of the Cockburn Date of appointment: 1 June 2009 Association Senior Independent Director Committee membership s : Experience: Sandy spent his entire full-time career Group Performance and with Standard Life plc, retiring as group chief Remuneration Committee Chairman executive.
An actuary, he has served his Group Audit Committee profession in a variety of roles and has also Group Nominations and Governance served as a director of the Association of British Committee Insurers.
GRG Board Oversight Committee Sandy has had a variety of cultural and community roles, and was previously Chairman of Creative Scotland, Chairman of the Edinburgh World City of Literature Trust and vice Chairman of the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland.
Alison Davis age 54 External appointment s : Nationality: British USA Non-executive director and member of Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 the compensation committee of Unisys Corporation Experience: Previously, Alison served as a Non-executive director, chair of the director of City National Bank, First Data compensation committee and member Corporation and Xoom and as chair of the board of the audit committee of Diamond of LECG Corporation.
She has also worked at Foods Inc. McKinsey & Company, AT Kearney, as Chief Non-executive director, and member Financial Officer at Barclays Global Investors of the audit committee of Fiserv Inc now BlackRock and as managing partner of Non-executive director and chair of the Belvedere Capital, a private equity firm focused audit committee of Ooma Inc. on buy-outs in the financial services sector.
Member of Advisory Board of Strategic Global Advisors, LLP Committee membership s : Group Nominations and Governance Committee Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Sustainable Banking Committee Morten Friis age 63 External appointment s : Nationality: Norwegian Member of the Board of Directors of Date of appointment: 10 April 2014 The Canadian Institute for Advanced Research Experience: Prior to joining the RBS Board, Member of the Board of Directors of Morten had a 34 year financial services career the Harvard Business School Club of and held various roles at Royal Bank of Canada Toronto and its subsidiaries including Associate Director at Orion Royal Bank, Vice President, Business Committee membership s : Banking and Vice President, Financial Institutions.
Group Audit Committee In 1997, he was appointed as Senior Vice Board Risk Committee President, Group Risk Management and served CIB Board Oversight Committee as the Chief Credit Officer then Chief Risk Officer from 2004 to 2014.
He was also previously a Director of RBC Bank USA, Westbury Life Insurance Company, RBC Life Insurance Company and of RBC Dexia Investor Services Trust Company.
38 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Robert Gillespie age 60 External appointment s : Nationality: British Independent board director at Ashurst Date of appointment: 2 December 2013 LLP Chairman of Council at the University Experience: Robert began his career with Price of Durham Waterhouse now  Chairman of the Boat Race Company where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
He Limited then moved into banking joining SG Warburg, Director of Social Finance Limited specialising in corporate finance, and was appointed as Co-Head and Managing Director of Committee membership s : its US investment banking business in 1989.
Group Nominations and Governance Following the acquisition in 1995 of Warburg by Committee Swiss Bank Corporation which subsequently Group Performance and merged with UBS, he then held the roles of Head Remuneration Committee of UK Corporate Finance, Head of European Board Risk Committee Corporate Finance and Co-Head of its global Sustainable Banking Committee business and CEO of the EMEA region.
He CIB Board Oversight Committee relinquished his management roles at the end of Chairman 2005, and was appointed Vice Chairman of UBS GRG Board Oversight Committee Investment Bank.
Robert left UBS to join Evercore Partners, from where he was seconded to the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, as Director General, from 2010 to 2013.
Penny Hughes, CBE age 56 External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-executive Chairman of The Gym Date of appointment: 1 January 2010 Group plc.
Also chair of the nominations and member of the audit, Experience: Previously a non-executive director risk and remuneration committees and chairman of the corporate compliance and Non-executive director and member of responsibility committee of Wm Morrison the audit and nomination committees Supermarkets plc, other former non-executive of SuperGroup plc directorships include Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Home Retail Group plc, Vodafone Committee membership s : Group plc, Reuters Group PLC, Cable & Wireless Sustainable Banking Committee Worldwide plc and The Gap Inc. Penny spent the Chairman majority of her executive career at Coca-Cola Board Risk Committee where she held a number of leadership positions, GRG Board Oversight Committee latterly as President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland.
Brendan Nelson age 66 External appointment s : Nationality: British Non-executive director and chairman Date of appointment: 1 April 2010 of the audit committee of BP plc Member of the Financial Reporting Experience: Brendan was global chairman, Review Panel financial services for KPMG.
He previously held senior leadership roles within KPMG including as a Committee membership s : member of the KPMG UK board from 1999 to 2006 Group Audit Committee Chairman and as vice-chairman from 2006.
Chairman of the Group Nominations and Governance Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered Committee Accountants of Scotland from 2005 to 2008.
Board Risk Committee President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants GRG Board Oversight Committee of Scotland 2013 14.
Chairman CIB Board Oversight Committee 39 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Baroness Noakes, DBE age 66 External appointment s : Nationality: British Deputy chairman, Ofcom Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 Committee membership s : Experience: An experienced director on UK listed Board Risk Committee Chairman company boards with extensive and varied political Group Audit Committee and public sector experience.
A qualified chartered CIB Board Oversight Committee accountant, she previously headed KPMGs GRG Board Oversight Committee European and International Government practices and has been President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
She was appointed to the House of Lords in 2000 and has served on the Conservative front bench in various roles including as shadow treasury minister between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously held nonexecutive roles on the Court of the Bank of England, Hanson, ICI, Severn Trent, Carpetright, John Laing and SThree.
Mike Rogers age 51 External appointment s : Nationality: British Chief executive, Liverpool Victoria Date of appointment: 26 January 2016 Group Non-executive director of the Experience: Has extensive experience in retail Association of British Insurers.
Mike joined Barclays in 1986 where he undertook a variety of Committee membership s : roles in the UK and overseas across business Sustainable Banking Committee banking, wealth management and retail banking.
Mike was Managing Director of Small Business, Premier Banking and UK Retail Banking.
Mike is currently Chief Executive of Liverpool Victoria Group, a role he was appointed to in 2006.
Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel Aileen Taylor age 43 Aileen is a fellow of the Chartered Institute Nationality: British of Bankers in Scotland and a member of Date of appointment: 1 May 2010 the European Corporate Governance Company Secretary Council.
Experience: A qualified solicitor, Aileen joined RBS in 2000.
She was appointed Deputy Group Secretary and Head of Group Secretariat in 2007, and prior to that held various legal, secretariat and risk roles including Head of External Risk Retail, Head of Regulatory Risk Retail Direct and Head of Legal and Compliance Direct Line Financial Services.
Executive Committee The Board is supported by the Executive Committee comprising the executive directors and other senior executives.
Details of the composition of the Executive Committee and biographies of its members can be found at rbs.
com about us corporate governance ce and board executive committee.
40 Corporate governance Chairmans introduction The Chairmans key responsibilities are to: I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance report, my provide strong and effective leadership to the Board: first since being appointed Chairman of the Board.
A brief review ensure the Board is structured effectively, observes the of the principal issues addressed by the Board during the year is highest standards of integrity and corporate governance, included in my Chairmans Statement on page 10.
The following and sets the tone from the top in terms of culture and report provides an overview of key roles and responsibilities of values: the Board, and sets out in greater detail how the Board spent its build an effective and complementary Board with an time in 2015.
Board effectiveness and performance evaluation appropriate balance of skills and personalities, and as are also covered, as well as an overview of how we communicate Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee consider with shareholders.
succession planning for Board appointments: manage the business of the Board and set the agenda, style I and my fellow directors are committed to observing high and tone of Board discussions to promote effective decisionstandards of corporate governance, integrity and professionalism.
making and constructive debate: Our statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance facilitate the effective contribution and encourage active Code the Code can be found on page 84. engagement by all members of the Board: in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Chief Howard Davies, Chairman of the Board Governance Officer and Board Counsel, ensure that members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear The Board information, to enable the Board to lead RBS, take sound The Board has eleven directors comprising the Chairman, two decisions and monitor effectively the performance of executive directors and eight independent non-executive executive management: directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
ensure that the performance of individual directors and of the Board as a whole and its committees is evaluated Biographies for each director and details of which Board regularly: and committees they are members of can be found on pages 37 to ensure RBS maintains effective communication with 40.
The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on shareholders and other stakeholders.
appointment and that all non-executive directors are independent for the purposes of the Code.
Chief Executive The Chief Executive has responsibility for all of RBSs business Board changes and acts in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
Philip Hampton stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2015.
The Chief Executives key responsibilities are to: exercise executive accountability for the RBS businesses Howard Davies was appointed as a non-executive director on 14 delivering operational management and oversee the full July 2015 and assumed the role of Chairman on 1 September range of activities of the customer businesses and functions: 2015.
Mike Rogers was appointed as a non-executive director develop, drive and deliver the strategy approved by the and a member of the Sustainable Banking Committee on 26 Board: January 2016. drive and deliver performance against financial plans, acting in accordance with authority delegated by the Board: Roles and responsibilities consult regularly with the Chairman and Board on matters The Board which may have a material impact on RBS: The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of act as champion of the culture and values of RBS, creating RBS and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
The Boards an environment where employees are engaged and terms of reference include a formal schedule of matters committed to good customer outcomes: specifically reserved for the Boards decision and are reviewed at lead, manage and develop RBSs senior leadership team, least annually.
The terms of reference are available at ensuring professional capability is developed and that rbs.
succession coverage meets the needs of RBS: ensure RBS has effective frameworks and structures to Chairman identify, assess and mitigate risks: and The role of Chairman is distinct and separate from that of the in conjunction with the Chairman and Chief Governance Chief Executive and there is a clear division of responsibilities Officer and Board Counsel, ensure the Board receives with the Chairman leading the Board and the Chief Executive accurate, timely and clear information.
managing RBSs business day to day.
41 Corporate governance Senior Independent Director Conflicts of interests Sandy Crombie, as Senior Independent Director, acts as a RBS has procedures in place to ensure that the Boards sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for management of conflicts of interest and its powers for authorising other directors when necessary.
He is also available to certain conflicts are operating effectively.
On appointment, each shareholders to discuss any concerns they may have, as director is provided with RBSs guidelines for referring conflicts of appropriate.
Each director is required to notify the Board of any actual or potential situational or transactional conflicts of Non-executive directors interest and to update the Board with any changes to the facts Along with the Chairman and executive directors, the nonand circumstances surrounding such conflicts.
executive directors are responsible for ensuring the Board fulfils its responsibilities under its terms of reference.
The nonSituational conflicts can be authorised by the Board in executive directors combine broad business and commercial accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the companys experience with independent and objective judgement and they Articles of Association.
The Board considers each request for provide independent challenge to the executive directors and the authorisation on a case by case basis and has the power to leadership team.
The balance between non-executive and impose conditions or limitations on any authorisation granted as executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and part of the process.
effective leadership across RBSs business activities.
Details of all directors conflicts of interest are recorded in a The standard terms and conditions of appointment of nonregister which is maintained by the Chief Governance Officer and executive directors are available on rbs.
com or from RBS Board Counsel and reviewed annually by the Board.
Board meetings Board Committees In 2015, nine Board meetings were scheduled and individual In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board attendance by directors at these meetings is shown in the table has established a number of Board committees with particular below.
Please see page 29 of the Strategic Report for more details.
The terms of reference are available on rbs.
In addition to the nine scheduled meetings, 25 additional meetings and committees of the Board were held, including During 2015, two additional temporary committees were meetings to consider and approve financial statements.
The established to support the Boards oversight of Global Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least once per Restructuring Group GRG and CIB.
year without executive directors present.
Attended Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel scheduled Aileen Taylor is the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel Howard Davies 1 4 4 and is also the Company Secretary.
Reporting directly to both the Ross McEwan 9 9 Chairman and the Chief Executive, she provides support and Ewen Stevenson 9 9 advice to the Board on a broad range of strategic and Sandy Crombie 9 9 governance issues.
She acts as a trusted advisor in the effective Alison Davis 9 9 functioning of the Board, ensuring appropriate alignment and Morten Friis 9 9 information flows between the Board and its committees, Robert Gillespie 9 9 including the Executive Committee.
As Board Counsel, she is Penny Hughes 9 9 responsible for delivery of commercial corporate governance Brendan Nelson 9 9 support and related legal advice to the Board and overseeing the Baroness Noakes 9 9 provision of legal advice to the Board by the General Counsel.
Mike Rogers 2 The Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsels key Former director responsibilities include: Philip Hampton 3 6 6 advising on Board skills and composition including induction, Notes: ongoing training and professional development: 1 Appointed to the Board on 14 July 2015. executive responsibility for Chairman non-executive director 2 Appointed to the Board on 26 January 2016.
3 Stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2015. search and appointment process: delivery of a global corporate governance strategy across RBS: the provision of professional secretariat support to the Board and its committees: and leading on implementation of recommendations from the annual Board evaluation.
42 Corporate governance Principal activities of the Board during 2015 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter In advance of each Board meeting, the directors are provided Interim results Q3 results with comprehensive papers.
During 2015 there has been an Individual Liquidity 2016 budget and 2017-20 enhanced focus on organisational culture, including risk culture, Adequacy Assessment plan and on continued enhancement of the risk appetite framework.
Citizens divestment ICB update These have been recurring themes underpinning Board Culture CIB strategy review discussions during the year.
A revised approach to Board papers Executive talent session Dear Chairman Exercise II was adopted in 2015 in order to improve and enhance the quality, Brand hierarchy Feedback response content and consistency of information presented to the Board Board evaluation update Ulster Bank strategic which has been well received.
An overview of the principal review Stress testing activities of the Board during 2015 is shown below.
Williams & Glyn capital RBSI strategic review plan Data and analytics Each meeting session Litigation update Chairmans report Risk report including Technology update Legal report Chief Executives report updates on conduct Transformation Technology update Chief Financial Officers matters Programme Board and committee report including monthly Reports from Committee Banking Standards external evaluation results and update on Chairmen Board session Pension funding capital, funding and Governance and Executive talent session Senior Manager Regime liquidity Company Secretarys Board session with PRA responsibilities map Franchise updates report routine matters for Transformation Transactions update approval noting Programme 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter Williams & Glyn Programme Budget Q1 results Executive director Risk culture Executive Committee members attend part of each Board remuneration proposals Resolution plan meeting to provide an update on the performance of each of the Annual results and AGM Recovery plan notice franchises and risk and conduct issues.
Other relevant senior Annual General Meeting Board and committee executives attend Board meetings to present reports to the Board preparations evaluations as appropriate.
This provides the Board with an opportunity to Citizens divestment Internal Audit evaluation engage directly with management on key issues and supports the Stress testing External Auditor Boards succession planning activity.
Internal Capital Adequacy evaluation Assessment Process Board effectiveness ICB design Non-executive directors Skills and experience of the Board Risk appetite framework training proposals The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide RBS Stress testing ICB update with the appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge RBS contingency funding Digital update as well as independence.
Given the nature of RBSs businesses, plan Technology update experience of banking and financial services is clearly of benefit, Restructuring update Transformation and we have a number of directors with substantial experience in Employee survey results Programme that area.
The Board also benefits from directors with experience Litigation update Board strategy offsite in other fields.
Technology update Executive talent session Transformation The table below illustrates the breadth of skills and experience on Programme the Board.
Retail Banking Chief Executive Other Financial Services experience Markets Investment Finance & Accountancy Banking Risk Government & Regulatory Technology Digital Mergers & Acquisitions Operations Corporate Restructuring Change Management Stakeholder Management Consumer Facing Board committees also comprise directors with a variety of skills and experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
43 Corporate governance Induction and professional development Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the FRC discussion paper on UK board succession planning.
Board, which is co-ordinated by the Chief Governance Officer New RBS leadership programme.
This includes visits to RBSs major Davies Report on gender balance on British boards.
businesses and functions and meetings with directors and senior EU Market Abuse Regulations.
Meetings with external auditors, counsel and The Investment Association Principles of Remuneration stakeholders are also arranged as appropriate.
Each induction 2015. programme has a core element that the director is required to Institutional and Shareholder Services UK & Ireland Proxy complete, with the remainder of the programme tailored to the Voting Guidelines.
A list of example meetings EBA report on the use of Role Based Allowances.
arranged during an induction programme for a new director is set European Commission consultation on the impact of the out below: bonus cap, October 2015.
Chairman Franchise Chief Executives PRA FCA Report into the failure of HBOS plc and report by Chief Executive Business visits UK and Andrew Green QC assessing the FSAs enforcement Chief Financial Officer overseas actions in relation to the failure of HBOS plc.
Senior Independent Director Finance Other non-executive directors Risk The Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel maintains Chief Governance Officer and Internal Audit continuing professional development logs.
These are reviewed Board Counsel Tax regularly between the Chairman and each director individually, to Chief Risk Officer Chief Human Resources assist in identifying future training and development opportunities Chief Conduct & Regulatory Officer that are specific to the individual directors requirements.
Affairs Officer Chief Administration Chief Marketing Officer Officer Information RBS Treasurer Investor Relations All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all RBS General Counsel Strategy & Corporate relevant matters and have access to the advice and services of External Auditor Development the Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
In addition, all External Counsel Regulators directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent Institutional Investors professional advice at the companys expense.
The Chairman continues to progress his tailored and Time commitment comprehensive induction programme, which includes all of the It is anticipated that non-executive directors will allocate sufficient above, together with additional customer, employee, shareholder time to RBS to discharge their responsibilities effectively and will and governmental engagement sessions, to support the nature devote such time as is necessary to fulfil their role.
Directors and scope of the Chairmans role.
have been briefed on the limits on the number of other directorships that they can hold under the requirements of the The directors have access to a wide range of briefing and training fourth Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV.
Each director is sessions and other professional development opportunities.
required to seek the agreement of the Chairman before accepting Internal training relevant to the business of RBS is also provided.
additional commitments that might affect the time the director is Business visits are arranged as part of the Group Audit able to devote to his or her role as a non-executive director of Committee and Board Risk Committee schedule details of which RBS.
The Board monitors the other commitments of the can be found on pages 50 and 56 and all non-executive Chairman and directors and is satisfied that they are able to directors are invited to attend.
Directors undertake the training allocate sufficient time to enable them to discharge their duties they consider necessary to assist them in carrying out their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The time commitment currently and responsibilities as directors.
required of our non-executive directors continues to be significant.
During 2015, the directors received updates on a range of subjects to enhance their knowledge, including: Election and re-election of directors In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors stand ICB ring-fencing.
for election or re-election by shareholders at the companys Client Money and Asset rules.
In accordance with the UK Listing Senior Managers Regime.
Rules, the election or re-election of independent directors also Cyber security.
requires approval by a majority of independent shareholders.
PRA consultation on board responsibilities.
PRA policy statement on the implementation of ring-fencing.
EBA consultation on guidelines on sound remuneration policies.
44 Corporate governance Performance evaluation A summary of the key themes arising from the 2015 performance In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board evaluation is set out below, together with an overview of the key takes place every three years.
An internal evaluation takes place actions proposed: in the intervening years.
Key themes Board resourcing and succession planning The 2013 and 2014 evaluations were conducted internally by the The need to plan for rotation in the Boards membership was Chief Governance Officer and Board Counsel.
In 2014, an highlighted, as a number of directors reach or exceed the six year evaluation of the Boards effectiveness was also carried out by point in their tenure.
The review highlighted the importance of the PRA.
Following the 2014 evaluations, a number of initiatives regularly reviewing Board and Board Committee composition, were implemented, aimed at improving the overall performance according to business and staffing needs, with scope also and effectiveness of the Board.
These included improving the identified to streamline Nominations Committee processes.
quality and volume of information provided to the Board, ensuring sufficient time on Board agendas for customer matters and RBSs Agenda planning priorities, enhancing the professional development provided to The evaluation highlighted the continuing need to ensure the right directors and a focus on succession planning.
Work continues to preparations take place before a paper reaches the Board.
It also address these topics and will be kept under regular review as a highlighted the challenge of achieving an appropriate balance matter of good practice.
between Board and Committee agendas to ensure the best use of directors time and to support effective decision-making.
In 2015, the Board and committee evaluation process was externally facilitated by Condign Board Consulting Limited, a Tone from the top and ensuring Board executive alignment specialist board evaluation consultancy which was selected The evaluation also acknowledged the continuing importance of following a competitive tender process.
The Board is satisfied the Boards role in developing the appropriate performance and that Condign has no other connection with RBS.
behavioural culture which is shared with the organisation, and ensuring appropriate alignment between the Board and the Performance evaluation process executive as remediation issues reduce and the forward agenda The external facilitator undertook a formal and rigorous develops.
evaluation by: Proposed actions using a tailored discussion guide to structure individual The full performance evaluation report set out a series of meetings held with each director, as well as the Chief recommendations which have been carefully considered by the Governance Officer and Board Counsel, the Chief Risk Board.
An action plan has been agreed to progress these Officer and the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer: recommendations, as appropriate, during 2016.
Key actions discussing outcomes and recommendations with the include: Chairman and Chief Governance Officer and Board Creation of a Nominations and Governance Committee, Counsel: and adding a governance oversight function, and streamlining outlining outcomes and suggesting areas for improvement processes and membership.
through a written report and oral presentation to the Board.
In January 2016 the Board approved proposals to establish a Amongst the areas reviewed were Board dynamics, culture and Nominations and Governance Committee.
The committee report engagement: Board and committee meetings and processes on page 47 contains more detail on the remit of the new including information quality and flows and the balance between Committee and areas of focus for 2016.
Board and committee agendas : Board and committee composition and structuring, external relationships with A focused review of Board and committee agendas and their regulators, shareholders and stakeholders: and overall Board supporting information and processes.
The priorities for this exercise are to minimise duplication, Outcomes of the 2015 performance evaluation optimise the use of directors time, and to engage directors The 2015 performance evaluation concluded that the Board was insights and experience fully.
This in turn will allow sufficient strong and operated effectively and within its terms of reference.
space for focus on RBSs onward priorities, particularly its customers.
Key strengths identified included the following: the Board was exceptionally hard-working, engaged, and A number of actions to improve alignment between the appropriately composed throughout the year: board and executives which were identified in light of the the group dynamic between Board members was good and reviews findings, and will be progressed during 2016 to on the whole members continued to work well together, ensure a consistent tone from the top.
creating effective challenge, considerable debate and detailed oversight: and the Boards committees also operated effectively within their terms of reference throughout the year providing a great deal of support to the Board.
45 Corporate governance These actions include undertaking post-decision reviews to the Chairman independently meets with RBSs largest pinpoint learnings for future Board development and continuing to institutional shareholders annually to hear their feedback on ensure appropriate Board involvement in executive succession management, strategy, business performance and corporate planning.
The forward agenda planner will also be discussed bigovernance.
Additionally, the Chairman, Senior Independent annually to ensure that business needs, the Boards expectations Director and chairmen of the Board committees met with the and executive support are aligned.
governance representatives of a number of institutional shareholders during the year: Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews the Senior Independent Director is available if any The Chairman met with each director individually to discuss their shareholder has concerns that they feel are not being own performance and ongoing professional development and addressed through the normal channels: and also shared peer feedback provided as part of the evaluation the Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration process.
Separately, the Senior Independent Director sought Committee consults extensively with major shareholders in feedback on the Chairmans performance from the nonrespect of the Groups remuneration policy.
executive, executive directors and key external stakeholders and discussed it with the Chairman.
Throughout the year, the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Group Performance and Relations with investors Remuneration Committee communicate shareholder feedback to The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective the Board.
The directors also receive reports reviewing share communication with shareholders.
The company communicates price movements and performance against the sector.
Detailed with shareholders through the Annual Report and Accounts and market and shareholder feedback is provided to the Board after by providing information in advance of the Annual General major public announcements such as a results release.
Individual shareholders can raise matters relating to arrangements in place are to ensure that directors develop an their shareholdings and the business of RBS at any time understanding of the views of major shareholders and that these throughout the year by letter, telephone or email via rbs.
are considered as part of the annual Board evaluation.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the The Investor Relations programme also includes communications Annual General Meeting and any General Meetings held or can aimed specifically at its fixed income debt investors.
The Chief submit written questions in advance.
The Senior Independent Financial Officer and or the RBS Treasurer give regular Director and the chairmen of the Board committees are available presentations to fixed income investors to discuss strategy and to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
There is also a separate section on the RBS website for fixed income investors which includes Communication with the company's largest institutional information on credit ratings, securitisation programmes and shareholders is undertaken as part of the Investor Relations securities documentation.
Further information is available at programme: rbs.
the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with UKFI, the organisation set up to manage the Governments investments in financial institutions, to discuss the strategy and financial performance of the business.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer also undertake an extensive annual programme of meetings with the companys largest institutional shareholders: 46 Report of the Group Nominations Committee Chairman search Letter from Howard Davies In September 2014, it was announced that Philip Hampton would Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee step down as Chairman in 2015 and Egon Zehnder International EZ was engaged to support the search process for his successor.
EZ does not provide services to any other part of RBS.
On 26 February 2015, it was announced that I would be appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 September 2015, and I joined the Board as a non-executive director on 14 July 2015.
Consideration of new non-executive directors EZ has continued to support the search for new non-executive directors during 2015 and to support the future Board succession planning.
The Committee has considered the skills and experience required to complement the Board and these have Dear Shareholder, been incorporated into the search process.
As Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Group During 2015, the Committee considered a number of potential Nominations Committee I am pleased to present our report on candidates and in December it was announced that Mike Rogers the committee's activity during 2015. would join the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 26 January 2016.
Mikes extensive experience of retail banking Role and responsibilities and financial services will strengthen the Board.
The Group Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, and membership and In December 2015, following a rigorous tender process, JCA chairmanship of Board Committees.
The Committee engages Group was appointed to support the search for further nonwith external consultants, considers potential candidates and executive directors in future and the EZ engagement will come to recommends appointments of new directors to the Board.
JCA Group does not provide search services to any other terms of reference of the Group Nominations Committee are part of RBS.
reviewed annually, approved by the Board and are available at rbs.
Tenure of non-executive directors The chart below sets out the tenure of non-executive directors.
Principal activity during 2015 In 2015, discussions principally focused on the Chairman search and the search for new non-executive directors.
The Committee 0-3 years also continued to monitor succession planning taking into account business requirements and industry developments.
3-6 years Membership and meetings 6 years All non-executive directors are members of the Group Nominations Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are invited to attend meetings.
The Group Nominations Committee holds at least two scheduled meetings per year, and also meets on an ad hoc basis as Board and Committee membership required.
In 2015, there were four Group Nominations Committee My appointment as successor to Philip Hampton aside, there meetings, three of which were chaired by Philip Hampton, and have been no other material changes made to the Board or its individual attendance by directors at these meetings is shown in Committee membership during 2015.
As previously mentioned the table below.
In addition a number of ad hoc meetings were Mike Rogers joined the Board and was appointed to the held to discuss Chairman succession prior to my appointment.
Sustainable Banking Committee in January 2016.
Attended scheduled During 2015, two temporary Board oversight committees were formed in relation to CIB and the banks Global Restructuring Howard Davies Chairman 1 2 2 Sandy Crombie 4 4 Group GRG.
Alison Davis 4 4 The CIB Board Oversight Committee first met in March 2015 to Morten Friis 4 4 oversee the strategic change programme for the Banks CIB Robert Gillespie 4 4 business, including monitoring execution risk and external Penny Hughes 4 4 stakeholder management.
Robert Gillespie chairs the Committee.
Brendan Nelson 4 4 Morten Friis, Brendan Nelson and Baroness Noakes are Baroness Noakes 4 4 members.
It is anticipated that the Committee will be stood down Mike Rogers 2 in the first half of 2016.
The GRG Board Oversight Committee first met in May 2015 to Former member provide oversight in relation to matters related to GRG including Philip Hampton 3 3 3 the Groups response to the FCAs Section 166 Review.
Notes: 1 Appointed to the Committee on 14 July 2015.
2 Joined the Committee on 26 January 2016.
3 Stepped down from the Committee on 31 August 2015.
47 Report of the Group Nominations Committee Brendan Nelson chairs the Committee.
Sandy Crombie, Robert As part of this extended remit, the Committee will consider Gillespie, Penny Hughes and Baroness Noakes are members.
It developments relating to banking reform and analogous issues is anticipated that this Committee will be stood down once the affecting the Group in the markets where it operates, and will FCA has confirmed the outcome of its Section 166 Review.
make recommendations to the Group Board on any consequential changes to the Groups governance model.
In Following my appointment as Chairman and the output of the order to reflect the revised remit, the Group Nominations Board Evaluation, I intend to lead a review of the Board Committee has been renamed as the Group Nominations and Committee membership during 2016.
The Board also approved changes to Performance evaluation the composition of the Committee, effective as at 26 January The 2015 performance evaluation was independently facilitated 2016.
I continue in my role as chairman of the Committee with by Condign Board Consulting Limited, a specialist board membership now comprising Sandy Crombie, Alison Davis, evaluation consultancy.
The Committee has considered and Robert Gillespie and Brendan Nelson.
The Group Nominations discussed the outcomes of this evaluation.
and Governance Committee held its first meeting in February 2016.
Overall the evaluation concluded that the Group Nominations Committee continued to operate effectively although some areas Boardroom diversity for potential improvement were identified.
The Board currently exceeds the target of 25 per cent female board representation as set out in Lord Davies 2011 report on A summary of the key themes arising from the evaluation is set women on Boards.
We also acknowledge the additional out below together with an overview of the key actions proposed: recommendations that have recently been published and await Key themes with interest the next steps to be taken in this regard.
consideration should be given to expanding the Committees remit to include a governance oversight function: The chart below details the gender diversity of the Board.
the search and nomination process for new non-executive directors should be reviewed and further streamlined as appropriate: Female non-executive director recruitment remains challenging for a number of reasons, including the significant time Male commitment expected of RBS non-executive directors: Group Nominations Committee membership should be reviewed, as part of a wider review of Board Committee composition: and succession planning should receive particular focus in the next few years, as a number of non-executive directors reach or exceed the six year point in their tenure.
Key Actions In January 2016, the Board approved proposals to expand the The Board operates a boardroom diversity policy and a copy of Committees remit, adding a governance oversight function and the Boards diversity statement is available on rbs.
changing its name to the Nominations and Governance Committee.
RBS understands the importance of diversity and, with regard to gender diversity, recognises the importance of women having Areas of focus for the Committee during 2016 will include the key greater representation at key decision making points in themes identified during the external evaluation process, as set organisations.
The search for Board candidates will continue to out above.
be conducted, and nominations appointments made, with due The review included a small number of general recommendations regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
However, all which are relevant for both the Board and its senior committees.
appointments to the Board are ultimately based on merit, Key themes and actions arising from these general measured against objective criteria, and the skills and experience recommendations are set out in the Board report on pages 45 the individual can bring to the Board.
and 46 and will be considered, and addressed as appropriate, at Board level.
The balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity on the Board, and how the Board operates together as a The review also recommended that all Committee chairmen unit is reviewed annually as part of the Board evaluation.
Where should ensure continued focus on agenda planning and appropriate, findings from the evaluation will be considered in the streamlined reporting to the Board, which will also be a priority for search, nomination and appointment process.
If appropriate, the Group Nominations and Governance Committee during 2016. additional targets on diversity will be developed in due course.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board Further details on RBSs approach to diversity can be found on and the Committee will track progress on its 2016 priorities during page 88. the year.
On 26 January 2016, the Board approved changes to the remit of the Group Nominations Committee which now includes responsibility for monitoring the Groups governance Howard Davies arrangements, in order to ensure best corporate governance Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee standards and practices are upheld.
25 February 2016 48 Report of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson, Systems of internal control Chairman of the Group Audit Committee In line with the requirements of the Code and related FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial & Business Reporting, the Committee has reviewed a priority of the and reported to the Board on the effectiveness of RBSs internal Committee has controls.
While there has been increased focus and attention been to monitor during 2015 from management on addressing and closing the impact of identified deficiencies, some known issues continued to impact transformation internal controls during 2015 as set out in the report that follows.
on the banks Timely and sustainable remediation will remain a focus of the control Committee in 2016. environment.
While it is clear that execution of the banks simplification strategy Dear Shareholder, will deliver benefits, the transformation programme is unprecedented in scale and the Committee has monitored the 2015 has been another significant year for the bank as it impact of such significant change upon the control environment progresses on its journey to becoming number one for customer of the organisation during the year.
The Committee has reviewed service, trust and advocacy.
I am pleased to report that the reports from Internal Audit assessing progress of the banks Group Audit Committee has supported the bank in its ambitions major change programmes and where appropriate has and has carried out its responsibilities effectively in the period, as challenged management regarding the associated impact on confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
of the outcomes of that review, and a description of the activity of the Committee during the year, is set out in the report that Embedding robust controls, driving the correct risk behaviours follows.
and ensuring the effectiveness of the three lines of defence remains a work in progress across RBS and, in conjunction with Accounting and financial reporting the Board Risk Committee, will continue to be priority areas for A key role of the Group Audit Committee is to satisfy itself that the Group Audit Committee during 2016. the accounting policies, risks and significant management judgements which underpin the banks financial disclosures are External audit reasonable and transparent.
During 2015, the Committee While Deloitte continued as RBSs external auditor throughout reviewed and challenged management on material judgements, 2015, we supervised the transition period of the new auditors, in particular those relating to accounting for provision for litigation Ernst & Young LLP EY, who were selected in 2014 following a and regulatory investigations and the treatment of committed competitive tender process.
The Committee reviewed the pension obligations in light of accounting developments during processes followed to ensure EYs independence and extended 2015.
Other key matters debated included: loan impairments: our policy on non-audit services to the firm to ensure that there valuation of financial instruments: conduct provisions, including was no impact on the audit service or EYs independence.
EY Payment Protection Insurance: goodwill: and deferred taxation.
shadowed the audit process in 2015 and I am confident that they The Committee received independent views from the external will be well-positioned and appropriately informed to commence auditor on these topics and was satisfied that the accounting as the external auditor in 2016. judgements applied were appropriate.
I would like to thank Deloitte for their work as auditor of RBS and its subsidiaries over the past 16 years and for their Following consideration of these matters ahead of the 2015 professionalism in securing an orderly handover to EY.
results, it was determined that a public announcement was appropriate and the Group Audit Committee recommended that Key priorities for 2016 the Board release a trading statement to the market on 27 2016 is set to be no less challenging for the bank and the January 2016.
The Committee also supported the proposal to Committee will continue to balance support to management with change the banks reporting segments based on the six independent oversight and challenge.
Focus will be placed on segments within the banks three core franchises, plus Capital maintaining appropriate oversight over financial reporting, Resolution and Williams & Glyn.
This re-segmentation reflects preparedness for accounting and regulatory changes including the manner in which the bank is now managed.
IFRS 9, monitoring systems of control and ongoing remediation programmes through a period of continued change and As part of our overall assessment of the Annual Report and embedding the correct culture and behaviours across the bank.
Accounts, we assisted the Board in determining that the disclosures taken as a whole were fair, balanced and More detailed information on the topics considered are set out in understandable, and provided the information necessary for the report that follows.
This demonstrates the breadth and scale shareholders to assess RBSs position and performance, of the matters considered and I would like to thank my fellow business model and strategy.
members for their continued support and focus during 2015.
The Committee has also considered compliance with the revised Brendan Nelson UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires directors to Chairman of the Group Audit Committee make a longer-term viability statement.
This statement is set out 25 February 2016 on page 32.
The Group Audit Committee reviewed the processes in place to allow the Board to make a robust assessment of the banks principal risks, in order to support this statement.
49 Report of the Group Audit Committee Report of the Group Audit Committee During 2015, in conjunction with members of the Board Risk Membership Committee, members of the Committee took part in an annual The Group Audit Committee GAC is comprised of the following programme of visits to businesses and control functions in order four independent non-executive directors.
to gain a deeper understanding of the risks and issues they face.
Attended This value-adding programme included two visits to Risk: C&RA scheduled and Internal Audit plus visits to: PBB: CPB: CIB: Services: Brendan Nelson Chairman 7 7 Finance: and Restructuring.
Sandy Crombie 7 7 Morten Friis 7 7 In October 2015, the Committee, in conjunction with the Board Baroness Noakes 7 7 Risk Committee, undertook a visit to India which has over 14,000 staff and contractors engaged in significant back office activities.
Brendan Nelson, Morten Friis and Baroness Noakes are also During the week-long trip the Committee spent time in both Delhi members of the Board Risk Committee.
Sandy Crombie is and Chennai meeting with local management teams to discuss Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration key risk and control matters in the country.
This common membership helps facilitate effective were held with the following local teams: Internal and External governance across all finance and risk issues, including Audit, Finance functions, Risk infrastructure, Services and compensation decisions, and that agendas are aligned and Technology.
overlap of responsibilities is avoided where possible.
Allocation of Group Audit Committee agenda time: The members of GAC are selected with a view to the expertise and experience of the Committee as a whole and with proper regard for the key issues and challenges facing RBS.
The Board is satisfied that all GAC members have recent and relevant financial experience and that each member of the Committee is independent as defined in the SEC rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act and related guidance.
The Board has further determined that Brendan Nelson, Committee Chairman, and Baroness Noakes are both financial experts for the purposes of compliance with the Exchange Act Rules and the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.
Full biographical details of GAC members are set out on pages 37 to 40.
Financial reporting and policy 34% Meetings were attended by the Chief Executive and Chief Systems of internal control and Financial Officer: the Group Chairman: the Internal and External regulatory oversight 38% Auditors: and Finance, Legal and Risk Management executives.
Process of internal audit 18% Other executives, subject matter experts and external advisers were also invited to attend, as required, to present and advise on Process of external audit 10% reports commissioned by the Committee.
The Committee also met privately with the external auditors and separately with Performance evaluation Internal Audit management.
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior Committees, including the Group Audit Committee, was Purpose of the Group Audit Committee conducted by Condign Board Consulting Limited, an external The Committees responsibilities are set out in more detail in its consultant, in 2015.
The Committee has considered and terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the discussed the outcomes of this evaluation.
Overall the review Committee and approved by the Board.
These are available on concluded that the Group Audit Committee continued to operate the Banks website: rbs.
Meetings and visits A small number of general recommendations which are relevant The Committee held seven scheduled meetings during 2015, four for both the Board and its senior committees were made.
Key of which were held immediately prior to the submission of the themes and actions arising from these general recommendations quarterly financial statements to the Board.
The Committee also are set out in the Board report on pages 45 and 46 and will be convened three ad hoc meetings to consider the outputs and considered, and addressed as appropriate, at Board level.
required affirmations relating to the annual external audit of benchmark interest rate submissions, to finalise the H1 company The Committee also tracked progress on the implementation of announcement prior to publication and the selection and approval the recommendations from the 2014 Committee effectiveness of the external auditor for Williams & Glyn.
evaluation during the year to ensure successful delivery.
50 Report of the Group Audit Committee Matters considered by the Committee in 2015 Key area Matters considered and action taken by the GAC Accounting and financial reporting Accounting The Group Audit Committee focused on a number of salient judgements and reporting issues in the preparation of judgments and the 2015 accounts, in particular, the Committee considered: reporting issues the capital impact and accounting treatment of committed pension obligations in light of accounting considered in the developments during 2015, including the issue of exposure draft amendments to IFRIC 14.
In light of these preparation of changes, the Committee supported the decision to amend the accounting policy for pensions and to apply this financial reports retrospectively leading to the recognition of an additional liability in the 2015 year end accounts in relation to committed future pension payments: provision and disclosure for ongoing regulatory and litigation actions: including foreign exchange trading: retail mortgage backed securities litigation in the US: UK shareholder actions: and Payment Protection Insurance PPI.
Following discussion, the Committee was satisfied that it would be appropriate to take further incremental provisions against both retail mortgage backed securities litigation and PPI in the 2015 year end accounts: the going concern basis of accounting including considering evidence in relation to RBSs capital, liquidity and funding position.
The Committee supported the directors going concern conclusion.
Further information is set out on page 89: the revised UK Corporate Governance Code requirement to make a longer-term viability statement in the 2015 report and accounts.
The Committee considered the processes to support the assessment of principal risks: assessed the companys prospects in the light of its current position and the identified principal risks: selected the time period to be covered by the statement: and reviewed the disclosure on behalf of the Board: the adequacy of loan impairment provisions, focusing in particular on judgements and methodology applied to provisions.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall loan impairment provisions and underlying assumptions and methodologies were reasonable and applied consistently: valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments carried at fair value including RBSs credit market exposures and own liabilities assessed at fair value: the level of goodwill and other intangible assets to be carried.
Following discussion and based on year end testing, the Committee supported recognition of an impairment in goodwill attributed to Private Banking driven primarily by weaker forecast future profitability for Private Banking: the judgements that had been made by management in assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, in light of continued execution of the banks strategy and changes to the UK corporate tax system: the assessment by management of the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, and assessment of identified deficiencies.
Weaknesses had been identified in user access controls relating to certain IT applications within the bank: the Committee monitored remediation plans to address the issue: and the quality and transparency of financial and risk disclosures contained within the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee recommended the quarterly and interim results announcements and the Annual Report and Accounts to the Board for approval.
Consideration was given to the comprehensive review process that supports both the Group Audit Committee and ultimately the Board in reaching the conclusion that the disclosures taken as a whole were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The review process included: central coordination of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Director of Finance with guidance on requirements being provided to individual contributors: review of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Executive Disclosure Committee prior to consideration by the Audit Committee: and a management certification process which required members of the Executive Committee and other senior executives to provide confirmation following their review of the Annual Report and Accounts that they considered them to be fair, balanced and understandable.
This process was also undertaken in respect of the half year and quarterly results announcements.
In addition, the External Auditor considered the Boards statement as part of its audit requirements.
51 Report of the Group Audit Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the GAC Systems of internal control FRC Guidance The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of RBSs internal controls at both Group-wide and business functional on Risk levels.
This was undertaken via scrutiny of the first line of defences actions and plans in respect of internal Management, controls and consideration of reports from the second and third lines of defence.
Internal Control and Related Detailed consideration was also given to disclosure contained within the Annual Report and Accounts concerning Financial & relevant internal control matters.
Business Reporting Control The Committee considered the outputs of bi-annual self-assessments of the robustness of the internal control Environment environment for the bank's customer-facing businesses, and customer support and control functions.
Certification In conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the Committee also continued to monitor the remediation of the Markets Control Environment to address some of the deficiencies as set out in the report of the Board Risk Committee report.
The Committee received separate reports from management on progress in this area.
Three Lines of Reports on the work underway to fully embed the three lines of defence model within the organisation were Defence considered by the Committee.
Particular attention was given to the articulation of responsibilities and accountabilities of the first and second lines of defence.
This will remain a focus of the Committee in 2016. Credit Risk The Committee received quarterly updates on risk assurance activities and monitored the deliverables of the credit Assurance risk assurance team.
Whistleblowing The Committee received updates on whistleblowing activity including reports on incidents reported and investigated.
It monitored the development by C&RA of an enhanced whistleblowing regime for employees, including the outputs of a benchmarking exercise.
Ledger The Committee considered the plan and approach to align data for Risk, Finance, and Treasury, under the Ledger Transformation Transformation Programme.
Key dependencies and risks to delivery were debated and oversight of the Programme programme will remain a key focus of the Committee in 2016.
Coutts Control The Committee monitored progress of the Coutts Control Remediation Programme, established to drive Remediation improvements to the control environment in Private Banking: progress was made on the delivery of the end-to-end Programme credit process.
Taxation The Committee reviewed the banks tax position and the tax audits being conducted across various jurisdictions including an in-depth session on tax compliance in October 2015.
Litigation and The Committee considered regular reports on material litigation and regulatory investigations and on the work of Regulation the Sensitive Investigations Unit.
Notifiable Event The Committee received bi-annual reports on the banks notifiable event process.
Each Board member was Process alerted to each major event.
Fraud In line with the Committees terms of reference, consideration was given to managements processes for identifying and responding to the risk of fraud.
Sarbanes-Oxley The Committee considered RBSs compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and was Act of 2002 satisfied in this respect.
Deficiencies were identified in the review processes over user-access to certain IT applications within the bank: these deficiencies did not lead to the identification of any errors in the financial statements.
Action is being taken by Management to improve these processes.
52 Report of the Group Audit Committee Internal audit Reports and The Committee received quarterly reports and opinions from Internal Audit throughout 2015 on the overall Opinions effectiveness of the governance, risk management and internal control framework, its control environment ratings, details of emerging and iterative issues and the adequacy of remediation activity.
Reports also included assessments of the banks management control approach being a measure of how management ensures that risks are understood, assessed and mitigated in a transparent and efficient manner.
The Committee requested an additional report from Internal Audit on matters which could potentially cause the banks overall control environment rating to deteriorate.
Annual Plan A refreshed audit plan for 2015 was approved in H2 following the banks extensive strategic changes to ensure appropriate focus on the highest risks and change initiatives.
The Committee considered and approved Internal Audits plan for 2016.
The Committee also challenged resourcing levels for the revised plan and approved budget and resource for 2016.
Internal Audit Minor changes to Internal Audits charter were approved by the Committee and it confirmed the independence of Charter Internal Audit.
Visits During two visits to Internal Audit in 2015, the Committee reviewed resourcing and recruitment, strategy and internal quality assurance.
Chief Audit The Chief Audit Executive continued to report to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, with a secondary reporting Executive line to the Chief Executive for administrative purposes.
The Committee assessed the annual performance including risk performance of the Chief Audit Executive.
Evaluation The Committee received regular updates on the actions taken by Internal Audit following the external review by EY the previous year.
The annual review of effectiveness of Internal Audit was undertaken internally in 2015.
The evaluation concluded that Internal Audit had operated effectively during the year.
Certain recommendations were made to enhance particular practices within the function.
These will be implemented during 2016, with progress tracked by the Committee.
Relationship with regulators Regulatory The Committee received regular reports on the status of ongoing regulatory investigations and the progress of investigations mandatory and remediation projects.
It challenged the management of individual business areas and functions on and their ability to meet regulatory expectations and the level of resource required to do so.
enforcements External audit External audit Considered reports from the External Auditor on its observations and conclusions from the year-end audit and summary reports half-year review of RBSG plc, RBS plc and NatWest Plc, work in connection with the first and third quarter financial results and any recommendations for enhancements to RBSs reporting and controls.
Audit Agreement Approval of Deloittes 2015 Audit Agreement, audit engagement plan and 2015 audit fees including its fee for the and Plan and fees review of the 2015 interim results, as authorised by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Williams & Glyn The Committee approved the appointment of both an auditor and a reporting accountant for Williams & Glyn.
Annual Evaluation The Committee conducted an internal evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor during 2015 and the effectiveness of the audit process including seeking the views of Committee members and attendees and other key members of management.
Regard was had to: experience of the audit engagement team: scope of audit work planned and executed: standards of communication and reporting: quality of insights on the internal control environment: and independence.
Transition of The Committee made recommendations to the Board on the transition of external auditors and appointment of EY auditors with effect for the financial year ending 31 December 2016.
The Committee supervised the transition of the external auditor from Deloitte to EY during 2015 and reviewed EYs initial Audit engagement plan for 2016.
EY achieved the requisite independence from RBS in June 2015.
The Board will recommend the appointment of EY as external auditor to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
53 Report of the Group Audit Committee Audit and non-audit services Non-audit To help safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the Committee maintains a policy that services policy sets out the circumstances in which the external auditor is permitted to supply audit and non-audit services.
The policy is reviewed annually and audit services and permitted non-audit services are approved in advance.
As mentioned above, since the start of EYs transition towards becoming the external auditor the firm has been subject to the policy in full.
Categories of permitted non-audit services not covered by the annual pre-approval, require ad-hoc approval in advance on a case-by-case basis.
Engagements below 100,000 may be approved by the Committee Chairman.
A competitive tender process is required for all proposed non-audit services engagements where the fees are expected to exceed 100,000 and approval of the full Committee is required.
As an additional governance control all engagements have to be approved by the Director of Finance and Supply Chain Services.
Where the engagement is tax related, approval must also be obtained from the Director of RBS Tax.
Ad hoc approvals of non-audit services are ratified by the Group Audit Committee each quarter.
As EY transitions towards being appointed the banks external auditor, it has been subject to the full audit nonaudit services policy since reaching the point of independence from the bank in June 2015.
Prior to that, all engagements of EY for non-audit services work were approved by either the Financial Controller or Committee Chairman.
During 2015, the current and incoming external auditors were approved to undertake the significant engagements set out below: assurance testing in relation to RBSs 2014 and 2015 Sustainability Report.
The External Auditor was selected given its significant experience in specialist sustainability reporting Deloitte and EY : review of financial statements of certain defined benefit funds within RBS Americas.
The External Auditor was selected as it was already responsible for reviewing the financial statements of the existing defined benefit funds, and there were clear synergies to ensuring continuity of service Deloitte : and as part of the preparations for a possible future sale of HM Treasurys shareholding in RBS, it is possible that a prospectus would be prepared for which the Group and Directors would have statutory responsibility and uncapped liability.
In order to comply with relevant UKLA rules on such activities, a working capital report from an independent reporting accountant on RBSs financial projections was required to be included in a circular to shareholders.
The appointment of the External Auditor offered significant synergies in undertaking the reporting accountant role and preparing the working capital report having undertaken audit procedures on the Groups forecasts and budgets for the five years ending 31 December 2019 Deloitte.
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and permitted under the policy can be found on rbs.
Information on fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the External Auditor can be found in Note 5 to the consolidated accounts on page 291.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 54 Report of the Board Risk Committee We will continue to monitor discussions with regulators in other Letter from Baroness Noakes jurisdictions over the coming months and make Chairman of the Board Risk Committee recommendations to the Group Performance and Remuneration a strong risk culture Committee on accountability matters as appropriate.
is fundamental to Risk Culture achieving our strategic A strong culture risk is fundamental to achieving our strategic risk objectives for our objectives for our customers, employees and wider stakeholders customers, employees and was a key focus of the Committee this year.
We reviewed and wider the outputs of benchmarking surveys by both McKinsey and PwC stakeholders in this area and discussed and agreed the dimensions of the banks target risk culture prior to consideration by the full Board.
Risk culture standards will ultimately be linked to the banks people and leadership standards and wider industry standards.
We will keep this under close review and plan to examine the Dear Shareholder, next steps to achieving our target risk culture state in the first quarter of 2016.
I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues on the Board Risk Committee for their contribution and support during 2015.
It Other has been another challenging year.
The report which follows Other material areas of Committee focus during the year have describes how the Committee discharged its responsibilities in included: 2015 and provides details of the key issues considered and internal and external stress testing exercises and capability: debated during the year.
I will also highlight some of the key the risk appetite framework of RBS and individual risk themes below.
appetite statements for material risks, franchises and functions: Transformation improvements to the Operational Risk Management The banks extensive programme of transformation has Framework and preparedness for compliance with the Basel continued throughout 2015 in line with the strategy to be a Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting RDAR Standards: smaller, simpler UK focused bank.
The transformation the capital and liquidity position of RBS and related programme has been a primary focus for the Board Risk regulatory submissions: Committee and we dedicated significant time to monitoring improvements to risk reporting: and execution risk on behalf of the Board.
During 2015, we received oversight of the banks risk profile through monitoring the regular updates from the project team and considered the impact risks inherent in the banks operations and portfolios.
of the programme on the banks change risk profile and control environment.
We made recommendations to management in More detailed information on each of these areas is set out in the relation to governance and prioritisation and requested focus Board Risk Committee report that follows.
sessions on the key work streams under the programme.
Key priorities for 2016 Another key deliverable is the planned separation and disposal of Management remains committed to the reduction of risk within Williams & Glyn and we examined the risks and challenges to the organisation and demonstrated real progress in many areas meeting the delivery target in some detail during the year.
The Committee will continue to oversee the work September 2015, acting under delegated authority from the being undertaken to ensure that the bank progresses towards Board, we approved the main regulatory filings for the Williams & operating within risk appetite and that historic issues are fully and Glyn Banking Licence Application.
Oversight of the Williams & Glyn separation and disposal process will be a key focus for the Committee in 2016 and, as the bank advances its strategic Remediation and Conduct Regrettably, customer experience was impacted again by an IT ambitions, it will be essential that the heightened change agenda issue in June resulting in a delay in transactions being posted to does not adversely impact on the control environment and this customer accounts.
We oversaw the exchange of will be closely monitored.
Other areas of focus will include correspondence with the regulator explaining how the matter had continued supervision of the embedding of the three lines of been resolved, considered the outputs of the post implementation defence model, data quality, cyber risk, further evolution and review exercise and examined the residual risks following the enhancement of the risk appetite framework and the incident.
IT resilience and the stability of the banks payments implementation of the Senior Managers Regime across the infrastructure will remain a priority of the Board and the organisation.
The conduct issues that have impacted the banks recovery and reputation continued to be of concern in 2015.
We oversaw the Baroness Noakes remaining internal and regulatory investigations into the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, manipulation of foreign exchange markets and were kept 25 February 2016 appraised of the negotiations that culminated in the announcement of settlements with two US regulators in May 2015.
55 Report of the Board Risk Committee Report of the Board Risk Committee The Committee also held in-depth sessions on risk reporting, risk The role and responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee appetite, economic capital and an education session on stress The Board Risk Committee assumes responsibility on behalf of testing.
the Board to provide oversight of current and potential risk exposures and future risk strategy, including the determination of Performance Evaluation risk appetite and tolerance, and to promote a culture of risk The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior awareness within RBS.
Committees, including the Board Risk Committee, was conducted by Condign Board Consulting Limited, an external consultant, in The Committees responsibilities are set out in more detail in its 2015.
The Committee has considered and discussed the terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the outcomes of this evaluation.
Overall the review concluded that Committee and approved by the Board.
These are available on the Board Risk Committee continued to operate effectively.
However, it was recognised that the agenda of the Committee was substantial and complex, and that meetings were lengthy as a result.
It was acknowledged that the situation would also be Membership The Board Risk Committee comprises independent nonexpected to improve as the banks simplification programme executive directors.
Details of the skills and experience of each of progressed.
the Committee members are set out in their biographies on A small number of general recommendations which are relevant pages 37 to 40.
Attended for both the Board and its senior committees were made.
Key scheduled themes and actions arising from these general recommendations Baroness Noakes Chairman 9 9 are set out in the Board report on pages 45 and 46 and will be Morten Friis 9 9 considered, and addressed as appropriate, at Board level.
Robert Gillespie 1 8 9 Penny Hughes 9 9 The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board Brendan Nelson 9 9 and the Committee will track progress on its 2016 priorities during the year.
Note: 1 The BRC meeting in March 2015 had to be rescheduled at short notice, meaning Mr Gillespie was unable to attend owing to a clash with a Citizens Financial Group Allocation of Board Risk Committee agenda time: Inc. Board meeting.
Baroness Noakes, Morten Friis and Brendan Nelson are also members of the Group Audit Committee.
Robert Gillespie is also a member of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee and the Sustainable Banking Committee, and Penny Hughes chairs the Sustainable Banking Committee.
This common membership across Committees ensures effective governance across all risk, finance, reputational and remuneration issues, that agendas are aligned and that overlap of responsibilities is avoided where possible.
Committee meetings are also attended by relevant executive directors, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer, Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel and Chief Audit Executive.
The lead partner of the External Auditor also became a regular attendee of all meetings from January 2015 onwards.
External advice is sought by the Committee, where appropriate.
Meetings and visits Five scheduled meetings and four ad hoc meetings were held in 2015.
The ad hoc meetings were required to consider: the preliminary 2015 Bank of England regulatory stress test results: the final 2015 Bank of England regulatory stress test results: and the key elements of the Williams & Glyn Banking Licence Application and regulatory submissions.
In 2015, members of the Committee undertook a programme of visits to various businesses and control functions in conjunction with members of the Group Audit Committee.
The purpose and scope of this programme is discussed in detail in the Report of the Group Audit Committee above.
56 Report of the Board Risk Committee Matters considered by the Committee in 2015 Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Risk strategy and policy Transformation Consideration of execution risk of the bank-wide transformation programme and the impact of mandatory change programmes on the programme.
The Committee requested regular updates from the transformation team on progress including independent opinions from Risk Management, Internal Audit, HR and C&RA.
Focus sessions were provided at the Committees request on the key workstreams under the transformation programme including: control: the RAG assessment framework: people risk: and technology.
Williams & Glyn Detailed examination of the risks and challenges to the timely separation of physical assets in advance of the planned divestment, confirming appropriate governance was in place to support the programme.
The Committee will oversee delivery closely during 2016 and that appropriate contingency arrangements are in place.
The Committee reviewed and approved the key documents for the Banking Licence and Consumer Credit Permission Applications namely the Regulatory Business Plan, Business Strategy including five year financials, ILAAP, ICAAP and RRP and oversaw the governance and assurance processes in place for the whole of the applications.
Change risk profile Consideration of the change risk profile of the banks transformation programme and recommendations from Risk regarding prioritisation and Board and management oversight.
The Committee asked management to map transformation initiatives and in-flight programmes to the banks risk and control environment for use in future prioritisation considerations.
Recovery plan and Review and recommendation of the 2015 Recovery Plan to the Board for approval prior to submission to the resolution planning PRA in June 2015.
The Committee considered feedback from the regulator in Q4 2015 and will oversee enhancement plans throughout 2016.
The Committee also reviewed the major milestones and responsibilities aimed at improving the banks resolvability.
The Committee considered the work already underway and further steps that may be required as regulatory expectations evolve over the coming years.
The Committee also considered proposed enhancements to the management, governance and alignment of recovery and resolution planning.
Regular updates on progress against plan will be provided to the Committee.
RBS Policy Consideration of the operation of the RBS Policy Framework, including plans to simplify the structure in line Framework with the banks strategic aims.
The Committee requested that management continue to improve the process for exceptions to policy.
Risk profile Macroeconomic and Received updates on macroeconomic and geopolitical risks including developments in Russia, China, the geopolitical removal of the Swiss Franc floor and the possible UK exit from the EU.
The Committee also considered the developments implications of reduced secondary market liquidity, driven by changing market conditions, on the banks risk profile and control environment.
Reporting The Committee dedicated considerable meeting time to providing oversight of the banks risk profile through the review of emerging risks and changes in the banks most significant portfolios and operations, presented within the monthly risk report.
This was supplemented by oral updates, provided by the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Conduct and Regulatory Affairs Officer on current and material risks at each Committee meeting.
An in-depth session on risk reporting in July 2015 led to further recommendations for improvements to the monthly risk report.
In response to a Committee request, the monthly MI pack will transition to a quarterly report during 2016, enabling more strategic insights to be highlighted.
Management will continue to refine the data provided during 2016.
During 2015, the General Counsel was also invited to provide a report at each meeting on current and emerging legal and litigation risks facing the bank.
Focus sessions on Detailed overviews of key risk types were provided to the Committee on a rotational basis.
Topics covered in key risk types 2015 included reputational risk, market risk, operational risk, credit risk and country risk.
57 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Enterprise wide risk Risk appetite Considerable time was spent reviewing the banks risk appetite framework.
The Committee recommended the proposed risk appetite for the banks strategic objectives earnings volatility, capital adequacy, stakeholder confidence and liquidity to the Board for approval.
The Committee held two deep dive meetings to consider the risk appetite statements for material risks and for each of the franchises and Services, placing a particular focus on: how the statements aligned with business plans and how deeply risk appetite was embedded within each area.
In 2016, the Committee will look at all of these areas in greater depth including in particular the coherence of top down strategic risk appetite statements with the lower level business and risk level statements.
Risk culture The Committee discussed and agreed the dimensions of the banks target risk culture before this was considered further by the full Board.
A further report covering franchise and functional action plans will be presented to the Committee in Q1 2016.
Stress testing Considerable time was dedicated to stress testing throughout 2015.
In Q1, the Committee considered the outputs of the 2014 reverse stress testing exercise and made recommendations to the Board.
It has since recommended the reverse stress test thresholds that will underpin the 2015 exercise and will review outputs in the first quarter of 2016.
The Committee discussed and agreed the underlying assumptions and scenario selection for both internal and external Bank of England stress tests including Internal Audits opinion and monitored the results.
Recommendations were made to the Board where formal Board approvals were required for regulatory purposes.
A key focus of the Committee has been overseeing enhancements to the banks stress testing capability as well as meeting internal and external regulatory milestones and requirements.
Capability enhancement will remain a priority during 2016.
Three lines of Oversight of progress to fully embed the Three Lines of Defence model and checking the project had an defence appropriate plan to deliver targeted results.
The Committee is aware of the importance of staff understanding their roles and accountability and in conjunction with the Group Audit Committee, will oversee that the model continues to be reinforced across the organisation, placing particular emphasis on managements identification and control of risk within the first line of defence.
RDAR Monitored ongoing preparations for the new Basel Principles on Effective Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting RDAR, which come into effect in January 2016, and recommended to the Board approval of the banks RDAR programme scope and approach to compliance.
Model risk Continued to monitor model risk management and oversaw the redesign of the model governance structure.
The Committee requested the articulation of a model risk appetite statement and risk rating methodology and for a full inventory of models to be prepared.
Progress will be reviewed by the Committee in Q1 2016.
Risk assurance The Committee received its first quarterly report on risk assurance which highlighted the emerging issues and any deteriorating trends in the control framework for Credit and Market Risk.
Regulatory, conduct and remediation Regulatory reviews Oversaw ongoing investigations into foreign exchange manipulation.
The Committee was kept appraised of the negotiations of settlements with the United States Department of Justice and US Federal Reserve System that were announced in May 2015.
Reviewed the progress of the Skilled Persons review of the Global Restructuring Group GRG early in 2015.
This is now being overseen by a temporary GRG Board Oversight Committee and the Committee has received updates on progress.
Also monitored the outcomes of the Skilled Persons review into anti-money laundering compliance, the independent consultants report on the banks sanctions regime following the December 2013 Cease & Desist Order issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and the status of the investigation into the alleged misselling of Interest Rate Hedging Products.
IT Incident The remediation programme established in response to the IT incident in June 2012 was closed in H1 2015 remediation following completion of the major deliverables and based upon assurances from Risk, Internal Audit and also independent advice from PwC, that the work undertaken had been appropriate and sustainable.
Residual issues will be monitored by Internal Audit and reported to the Committee by exception.
Considered the regulatory response to a systems incident in June 2015.
A systems issue delayed a number of customer transactions over a two day period, as a result of software failure.
Remedial actions have been taken following a post-incident review.
The Committee considered its root causes and mitigation and will keep the residual risks under review.
58 Report of the Board Risk Committee Key area Matters considered and action taken by the BRC Regulatory, conduct and remediation Conduct and The Committee also received reports on other conduct and regulatory issues including: regulatory issues the remediation of issues arising within the former Markets Division, as part of the Markets Standards Portfolio Programme, which draws together a number of work streams to remediate broader risk and control issues, including regulatory and conduct risk, to strengthen the control environment.
the remediation of identified trade and transaction reporting compliance and collateral management issues in CIB: the implementation of the banks strategy to reduce the volume of customer complaints: tax risk and European tax-related investigations: and status reports on Americas remediation issues.
In particular, the Committee considered section 12 of the US Bank Holding Company Act BHCA and its implementing rules the Volcker rule and approved the banks Volcker compliance programme FCA Firm Evaluation An FCA Presentation in June 2015 on its strategic approach to regulation, the evolving risk landscape for banking groups and the areas of focus for the next 12 months.
The FCA also presented the outcome of its firm evaluation, covering cultural change at the bank, root cause analysis, the scale and complexity of the banks transformation programme and the challenges of simplification.
Representations to The Committee requested a full inventory of key representations to regulators and sought assurances on the Regulators processes and governance in place to support submissions.
This work is ongoing and will be kept under regular review.
Senior Managers The Committee exercises oversight of implementation of the new Senior Managers Regime across the bank Regime and received reports on preparation and progress.
Market, credit and operational risk Credit, market and Consideration of credit, market and operational risks formed an integral part of the agenda of each meeting, operational risk with detailed MI demonstrating the impact on risk profile, presented within the monthly risk report.
Operational risk Monitored progress of plans to improve the banks Operational Risk Management Framework ORMF management including the work underway to complete risk and control assessments across the businesses.
The Committee framework noted that significant progress had been made and agreed that the programme could move to reporting only by exception if any major issues arise.
IT resilience and Received a bi-annual report on Security & Resilience risks and internal controls in place across the bank.
The cyber risk Committee also separately received a report on Information Security and insights from an external industry expert on cyber risk.
It reviewed the responses to the PRA and FCA Dear Chairman II Exercises and the subsequent letters from the PRA and FCA and made recommendations to the Board for approval prior to submission.
Payments Examined the stability and operational risks inherent within the banks payments environment and considered resilience, the adequacy of resource and controls.
The Committee received reports on the changing regulatory environment.
Data quality Exercised oversight of the banks data quality programme, which aims to measure the quality of the most important data in the bank and to remediate data quality issues.
The Committee noted the progress made.
A detailed plan will be presented to the Committee in Q1 2016.
Capital and Liquidity ICAAP and ILAA The Committee regularly reviewed the capital and liquidity position of the bank.
This included reviewing the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA and Internal Audits assurance opinion on the adequacy of the processes supporting their preparation and recommending that the Board approve these submissions to the PRA.
Contingency Funding Considered the banks contingency funding plan and recommended it to the Board for approval.
Plan 59 Report of the Board Risk Committee Risk and C&RA Conducted visits to Risk and C&RA and considered people engagement, resources and budget, bench strength and succession planning and the control environment of both functions.
Assessed and made recommendations to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee on the performance of the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer.
Accountability and Remuneration Continued to provide strategic risk oversight over performance and remuneration arrangements, working closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee RemCo.
RemCos report on pages 64 to 83 includes further detail on how risk is taken into account in remuneration decisions.
Key matters considered by the Committee included: the risk and control objectives of members and attendees of the banks Executive Committee, with additional focus on underlying objectives for the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer: an assessment of the risk conduct performance of members and attendees of the banks Executive Committee, with recommendations made to RemCo as appropriate to inform its decision on pay and awards: an assessment of the risk conduct performance of the bank and its businesses, with recommendations made to RemCo to inform its decision on adjustments to the annual bonus pools: accountability recommendations in respect of significant material events and high earners, including those current and former employees identified as part of the investigation into the manipulation of foreign exchange markets: and consideration of the performance conditions for the banks Long Term Incentive Plans and assessment of proposed vesting levels to ensure risk management conduct performance is fairly reflected in vesting outcomes.
Baroness Noakes Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 60 Report of the RBS Capital Resolution RCR Board Oversight Committee Letter from Baroness Noakes, Membership and meetings Chairman of the RCR Board Oversight Committee The Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
The Senior Independent Director, the Chairman RCR of RBS and the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee are substantially members.
Attendance at meetings is shown below.
Attended completed its scheduled work by the end Baroness Noakes Chairman 4 4 of 2015 Sandy Crombie 4 4 Howard Davies 1 0 1 Brendan Nelson 4 4 Former member Philip Hampton 2 3 3 Notes: Dear Shareholder, 1 Howard Davies joined the Committee on 1 September 2015 when he succeeded Philip Hampton as Group Chairman.
He did not attend the meeting in October 2015 as he was on business in the US.
The RBS Capital Resolution Board Oversight Committee was 2 Stepped down from the Committee on 31 August 2015. established following the creation of RBS Capital Resolution RCR on 1 January 2014.
Principal activities during 2015 At each meeting during the year the Committee considered RCR was established to separate and wind down RBSs high RCRs financial performance, outlook and delivery against the capital intensive assets.
Targets were set to remove 55-75% targets and asset management principles.
There is a well of these assets from the balance sheet by the end of 2015 and established framework for quarterly reporting which includes 85% by the end of 2016. impact on RBSs capital levels and impairment releases.
Market conditions allowed for exits to be accelerated and the Committee Key principles are: received regular updates on progress and market conditions, as removing risk from the balance sheet in an efficient, well as RCR's ability to execute and complete transactions expedient and economic manner: efficiently.
The Committee also received quarterly updates on key transactions and the exit strategy for assets deemed to pose reducing the volatile outcomes in stressed environments: higher operational risk.
Customer, conduct and control and environment considerations were also discussed regularly.
The Committee also received reports on activities of the RBS Ireland accelerating the release of capital through management and Capital Resolution Board Oversight Committee.
I was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 1 April 2014 and In April 2015, the Committee discussed the RCR transfer closure am pleased to present the report on the Committees activity plan, noting requirements for the completion of RCR and how this during 2015. would be evidenced to the relevant stakeholders.
At the later meetings more detailed plans were considered, including The role and responsibilities of the RCR Board Oversight regulatory expectations, internal audit approach and Committee arrangements for reporting to the Board.
The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Committee and Committee meetings are attended by senior RCR managers and approved by the Board.
These are available on rbs.
also representatives from the control functions, in particular from the Risk function.
The Committees role is to: RCR substantially completed its work by the end of 2015.
The oversee the actions of RCRs management, including Committee met for its final meeting in January 2016 to finalise the implementation of RCRs strategy: transfer closure of RCR.
The RBS Board agreed closure of RCR review and report to the Board on RCRs progress against on the recommendation of the Committee, which confirmed its and compliance with the primary objective to eliminate the satisfaction that RCR had met its 85% asset reduction target.
banks exposure to RCR assets and the asset management This conclusion was supported by an external audit opinion from principles criteria for taking decisions on the reduction of Deloitte on RCRs statement of assets as at 31 December 2015 capital and assets : and an opinion from Internal Audit.
The relevant confirmations and information were provided to the PRA at the end of January agree in consultation with the Group Performance and 2016.
Remuneration Committee specific incentives for RCR management, aligned to the objectives of RCR: consider financial disclosures in respect of RCR: and Baroness Noakes, report to the Board on the Committees activities and Chairman of the RCR Board Oversight Committee recommend changes to RCR strategy.
25 February 2016 61 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Letter from Penny Hughes oversight of the brand strategy and building on our legacy as Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee a bank of brands, developing our brands to build on the connection with our customers: efforts to rebuild a development of the Sustainability agenda, meeting the responsible and needs of all our stakeholders whilst aligning with the Banks sustainable business overall strategy: are being recognised ongoing commitment to stakeholder engagement through through independent face to face sessions with advocacy groups on key topics: considering sustainability positioning on environmental and external targets, climate change, sustainable energy and the social measures economy: and transparent reporting through the annual Sustainability Report which describes our performance and approach to making RBS a more sustainable business.
Dear Shareholder, Although there is still much to be done to rebuild trust, it is Having now completed my first full year as Chairman of the pleasing that the efforts to build a responsible and sustainable Sustainable Banking Committee, I am pleased with the progress business are being recognised through independent and external made under the Committees refocused strategic direction.
We have successfully retained our place in the Dow There has been broader, strategic debate and ownership from Jones World Sustainability Index with a score of 80 and have the executive to drive forward sustainability in their businesses, also been included in the Carbon Disclosure Projects FTSE 350 aligned to customer priorities.
Climate Disclosure Leadership Index with a score of 99 100 for disclosure and B for performance.
RBS has also been RBS continues to have a clear ambition to be number one for reselected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good index which measures customer service, trust and advocacy in each of our chosen the performance of companies against globally recognised business areas.
Delivery of this ambition depends in large part on responsibility criteria.
our ability to demonstrate beyond question that we are a responsible company doing business in a sustainable way.
The Committee will continue to operate at a strategic level, supporting and challenging the executive on their key priority of We will rebuild our reputation and earn our customers trust by turning RBS into a customer centric bank.
The work to putting customers first, making RBS a great place to work, strengthen our customer and employer brands will continue and supporting our communities, and being mindful of environmental culture will be a key focus, with the Committee reviewing actions impacts.
being taken to deliver on the goals agreed by the Board.
The Sustainable Banking Committee is primarily concerned with My thanks go to the Committee members and attendees for their overseeing, supporting and challenging actions taken by contribution and support in steering the work of the Committee management to run the bank as a sustainable business, capable through another challenging year.
of generating long term value for its shareholders.
Some good progress was made in 2015 under our core themes: considering what is being done to foster a sustainable business for customers and understanding the needs of Penny Hughes particular customer groups: Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee oversight of how management is embedding culture and 25 February 2016 standards including engagement, motivation, living the values and leadership: 62 Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee Report of the Sustainable Banking Committee The review also recommended that all Committee Chairs should Meetings ensure continued focus on agenda planning and streamlined The Sustainable Banking Committee held six scheduled reporting to the Board, which will be a priority for the Committee Committee meetings in 2015 which were attended by senior during 2016. representatives from the customer-facing franchises as well as The Committee recently conducted a review of its terms of Human Resources, Sustainability, Risk, C&RA, Communications reference to reflect the Committees strategic role of overseeing, and Marketing, and Strategy.
supporting and challenging actions being taken by management Stakeholder engagement sessions to run the bank as a sustainable business.
During 2016, the In addition to ongoing engagement which takes place across our Committee will structure its meetings around five key drivers: business each day, the Sustainable Banking Committee runs a culture, people, customer, brand & communications and proactive engagement programme to which we invite external Environmental, Social & Ethical issues.
stakeholders to meet with, and challenge, the most senior The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board decision makers in RBS.
These discussions help shape future and the Committee will track progress on its 2016 priorities during policies, influence strategic priorities and inform decision making the year.
across the Bank and will continue to play a key role.
To date we have met with over 50 different groups of NGOs, civil society Role and responsibilities of the Sustainable Banking groups, government bodies, consumer groups and investors in Committee this way.
In particular, in 2015 we held four such stakeholder Authority is delegated to the Sustainable Banking Committee by engagement sessions covering the following topics: the Board and the Committee reports and makes recommendations to the Board as required.
The terms of financial inclusion including the issue of debt and access to reference of the Committee are available on rbs.
com and these affordable credit: are reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
A report on the issues the Bank should prioritise to become number one the activities of the Committee in fulfilling its responsibilities is for customer service, trust and advocacy: provided to the Board following each meeting.
The principal the disintermediation of the banking sector and the responsibilities of the Committee are shown below and during increasing availability of alternative sources of finance: and 2015 were grouped under three core themes of work: Bank-wide stakeholders views on RBS Indias sustainable Reputation and Trust: Serving Customers: and development programs.
In addition, the programme of UK-based events aimed at individual shareholders continued in the first half of 2015 and Bank-wide reputation and trust led by the Chief Executive provided an opportunity for shareholders to meet directors and Oversight of: senior management to learn more about the business.
management of reputation and delivery of commitments on trust, advocacy and customer service: Membership reputational challenges relating to people agenda including The Sustainable Banking Committee comprises three embedding values and cultural change activity: independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman and development of brand strategy in line with RBSs purpose, members of the Committee, together with their attendance at vision and values: meetings, are shown below.
sustainable growth of business and measures taken to Attended scheduled support economic development and how banks can better Penny Hughes Chairman 6 6 serve society: Alison Davis 6 6 community programmes and employee engagement in Robert Gillespie 1 5 6 charitable partnerships: Mike Rogers 2 Serving customers Notes: provide challenge on how well RBS is integrating 1 Required to attend Citizens Financial Group, Inc meeting.
2 Appointment with effect from April 2016. sustainable banking into its business strategy and what is being done to foster a sustainable business for customers: Performance evaluation oversee customer centricity priorities including receiving The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its senior reports on key customer metrics: committees, including the Sustainable Banking Committee, was consider product sustainability, transparency and fairness: conducted by Condign Board Consulting Limited.
The receive reports on how RBS is supporting SMEs and Committee has considered the findings of the review.
Overall the oversee the approach to responsible lending and financial review concluded that the Sustainable Banking Committee inclusion: continued to operate effectively.
Whilst no specific recommendations were made in relation to the Committee, the Sustainability emerging issues review highlighted the importance of maintaining focus around oversight of Environmental, Social and Ethical risk policies the remit of the committee.
engage with key internal and external stakeholder groups on The review also included a small number of general emerging sustainability issues: recommendations which are relevant for both the Board and its approve the annual Sustainability Report and receive the senior committees.
Key themes and actions arising from these external auditors assurance report: and general recommendations are set out in the Board report on oversee priorities, targets and reputational challenges on pages 45 and 46 will be considered, and addressed as key emerging sustainable banking issues and consider best appropriate.
63 Directors Remuneration Page Annual statement from the Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 65 Remuneration and the business strategy 66 At a glance summary for executive directors 67 Summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy Policy table for executive directors 68 Recruitment remuneration policy 70 Service contracts and termination 70 Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company 70 Remuneration policy table for the Chairman and non-executive directors 71 Annual report on remuneration Implementation of policy in 2016 72 Total remuneration paid to executive directors 72 Assessment of long-term incentive LTI awards 73 LTI awards granted during 2015 74 Performance conditions for 2016 LTI awards 75 Payments to past directors 76 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors 76 Directors interests in shares and shareholding requirements 77 Total Shareholder Return TSR performance 78 Pay comparisons 78 The Committee and its activities during 2015 79 Shareholder voting and views on the remuneration policy 80 Other Remuneration Disclosures Eight highest paid senior executives below Board 81 Remuneration process and adjustments for risk, malus and clawback 81 Remuneration policy for all employees 82 Remuneration of Material Risk Takers 83 64 Directors Remuneration Report Annual statement from Sandy Crombie I know that bonuses remain an emotive issue, particularly when Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration RBS is posting losses and continuing to deal with conduct and Committee litigation issues from the past.
Against this background, bonuses have fallen by over 72% across RBS and by over 90% in the we believe the investment bank since 2010.
While the bonus pool has been focus on culture coming down year on year, including a further reduction in 2015, and encouraging it is important that RBS does not become too disconnected from good behaviours industry norms.
The Committee recognises the need to maintain a commercial approach to pay and reward the hard work by will, in time, make those employees who are helping to turn around RBS.
a significant contribution to Pay decisions for 2015 driving sustainable I know that it is in the public interest to show restraint on returns remuneration while at the same time there is a need to deliver fair Dear Shareholder, and reasonable pay outcomes for employees.
Average annual salary increases are in line with the financial services market.
I am pleased to set out the Directors Remuneration Report for There is a focus on paying the right wage to employees and our 2015.
This report details the remuneration policy for the year rates of pay exceed the Living Wage Foundation Benchmarks.
ahead as well as our pay decisions for 2015 and the reasons behind them.
The Committees aim is to make sure the The bonus pool has fallen from 421 million in 2014 to 373 remuneration policy supports RBS strategy, a key element of million in 2015, a reduction of 11%.
In order to ensure there is a which is to deliver our ambition of becoming the number one balanced distribution, over 90% of this pool will be directed to bank in the UK for customer service, trust and advocacy.
those below the most senior RBS employees.
Where employees do receive a bonus, the average bonus amounts remain relatively Developments in 2015 modest with 52% of employees receiving 2,000 or less and a It has been a year of continuing progress.
On the one hand, good further 21% receiving less than 5,000. progress has been made against our strategic targets.
We believe the focus on culture and encouraging good behaviours No changes are being made to the remuneration structure for will, in time, make a significant contribution to driving sustainable executive directors at this time.
Executive directors are not returns for shareholders.
On the other hand, while we continue to eligible for annual bonuses.
Instead, for them and their most make progress in addressing and resolving legacy and conduct senior colleagues, variable pay continues to be delivered in longissues, these continue to drag on financial results and the term incentives, aligning to shareholder value over the long term.
Committee appreciates the impact this has on all our One change to the performance measures for long-term incentive stakeholders.
awards is a slight amendment to the comparator group for Total Shareholder Return performance to more accurately reflect RBS In November, changes were announced to the pay arrangements strategic direction.
Further details are set out on page 75. for customer-facing employees in Personal & Business Banking.
These changes are intended to reinforce the message that our Considerations for the year ahead employees should offer services and advice solely on the basis of In accordance with UK regulatory requirements, further what best meets the needs of the customer.
Accordingly, we amendments will be made to the variable pay awarded to have removed incentives based on sales and other criteria from individuals identified as Senior Managers under the PRA regime.
these employees, and instead have made a modest increase to Variable pay to Senior Managers for performance years starting their fixed pay.
I believe this is a bold and significant step in our on or after 1 January 2016 will be subject to deferral over seven efforts to rebuild trust in RBS.
years and the potential clawback period will be extended to ten years.
While pay remains an important and sensitive topic, an encouraging sign is that pay is not dominating discussions with Further guidance on remuneration practices has been published shareholders in the way that it used to.
I hope this reflects the by the European Banking Authority EBA which will also be efforts of the Committee in recent years to implement a considered by the Committee when reviewing policy in 2016. remuneration policy that is simpler than before and strongly The Directors Remuneration Policy will then be presented to aligned to shareholders interests over the long term.
shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM, at the end of its current three year cycle.
Market context Variable pay at RBS remains restrained in a market context, I would like to conclude by thanking my fellow Committee reflecting both our ownership structure and the transition to a members and those who support the Committee for their smaller bank, centred in the UK and Ireland.
Decisions by the commitment and guidance over the year.
I am also grateful for Committee on variable pay are driven by a thorough step by step the input received from shareholders which plays an important process with adjustments for performance, risk and conduct part in developing responsible pay practices.
events in order to determine appropriate outcomes.
Sandy Crombie Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 25 February 2016 65 Directors Remuneration Report Fair Remuneration and the business strategy The Committee must ensure that good behaviours are To provide customers with the best possible service, RBS is encouraged and that conduct issues are accounted for.
building a strong, simple and fair bank.
Performance and pay Being fair is grounded in paying people appropriately for management is part of that process and good progress was their work and commitment to serve customers well.
made on all three fronts during 2015.
2015 is the first full year that RBS has been operating as a Strong fully accredited living wage employer.
RBS needs to build an engaged and inclusive workforce, If conduct falls short of the standard expected, the capable of providing excellent customer service.
Committee can apply malus reduction or cancellation of Senior leaders have collective performance objectives that variable pay awards prior to payment or clawback target financial strength as well as customer experience recovering awards that have already been paid.
improvements through net promoter and trust scores.
In 2015, malus has been applied to remuneration Employee engagement is also targeted and 2015 results outcomes as part of the accountability review process.
show an improvement of six points on 2014.
RBS is now The Committee aims to strike a fair balance between within three points of industry peers.
adjustments to variable pay as a targeted measure to In 2015, RBS announced its intention to increase the change behaviour whilst not disproportionately penalising proportion of women in the top three leadership layers to employees who are not directly responsible for events.
30% by 2020 and to have an approximate 50 50 balance Bonuses have continued to shrink at RBS, aligned with the at all levels by 2030. restructuring that has taken place and the actions taken by Pay is not the only lever and employees are supported by the Committee, but a certain level is considered necessary wider people initiatives with over 13,000 employees in order to run a commercial and sustainable business.
undertaking the Determined to Lead programme in 2015.
This programme is aimed at ensuring stronger and more consistent leadership.
Bonus pool levels have been transformed since 2010 Building on established processes and ways of working, 1,600 new professional Standards Frameworks set out the relevant knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours 1,375 -72% 1,400 expected of RBS employees in their role, to embed good 1,200 conduct and an appropriate culture.
-92% 1,000 937 789 800 679 Simple 576 600 Simplifying RBS and the way it operates will reduce costs 421 373 and our senior leaders are measured on this as part of their 360 400 287 237 LTI performance targets.
200 114 RBS is simplifying how employees get paid.
In PBB, pay is 71 linked to supporting customers, rather than short-term 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 incentive schemes.
Group Markets CIB Any variable pay for executive directors is delivered as an LTI award not bonus, with future looking performance measures linked to the strategic plan.
Shareholder support was strong for last years Directors Remuneration Report with over 99% voting in favour.
No changes are being made to the remuneration policy, approved at the 2014 AGM, at this time.
66 m Directors Remuneration Report At a glance summary for executive directors Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 Remuneration outcomes for 2015 Ross Ewen McEwan Stevenson 000s 000s Salary 1,000 800 Fixed share allowance 1,000 800 Benefits 1 88 26 Pension allowance 350 280 Bonus n a n a Vesting of 2013 LTI award 2 1,347 Total 3,785 1,906 Notes: 1 Amount for Ross McEwan includes standard benefit funding and relocation benefits.
2 Estimated value of the LTI award due to vest in March 2016.
A summary of the performance assessment is set out below and full details can be found on page 73.
2013 LTI award Ross McEwan was granted an LTI award in March 2013 while CEO of UK Retail and became Chief Executive in October 2013.
His change in role over the three year vesting period has The LTI shown above is the award to be granted in March resulted in 25% of the award being based on UK Retail 2016.
The notional value at 48% of the grant reflects an measures and 75% based on RBS-wide measures.
estimate of the potential value in light of the stretching performance conditions and risk of forfeiture over the five year Vesting outcome for UK Retail performance measures vesting period.
Financial and operational Linking remuneration to the business strategy performance 13% Effective Risk Management 47% 80% Customer and People measures 20% Vesting outcome for RBS-wide performance measures Relative TSR 0% 18% Economic Profit 56% Balance Sheet & Risk 16% 22% Strategic Scorecard Combined vesting outcome for 2013 LTI award Number of shares Number of shares Final vesting outcome to vest in March Estimated value under award weighted 25%:75% 2016 before tax 696,152 62% 431,614 1,346,636 Further details on the performance measures for the LTI award to be granted in March 2016 are set out on page 75.
67 Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy The full Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 25 June 2014 and is available at rbs.
No changes are being made that would require shareholder approval at the AGM in 2016.
An extract of the policy, updated to ensure it is relevant for the current year, is set out below.
In the event of any conflict, the approved policy available on rbs.
com takes precedence over the information set out in this section.
Fixed pay elements for executive directors Fixed pay elements are intended to provide a level of competitive remuneration for performing the role with less reliance on variable pay in order to discourage excessive risk-taking and with partial delivery in shares to align with long-term shareholder value.
Element of Purpose and link pay to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Base salary To aid recruitment and retention Paid monthly and reviewed annually.
of high performing individuals whilst paying no more than is The rates for 2016 are unchanged: Any future salary increases will necessary.
To provide a Chief Executive - 1,000,000 be considered against peer competitive level of fixed cash Chief Financial Officer - 800,000 companies and will not normally remuneration, reflecting the skills be greater than the average and experience required, and to Further details on remuneration arrangements salary increase for RBS employees over the period of th discourage excessive risk-taking.
for the year ahead are set out in the annual e report on remuneration.
Fixed share To provide fixed pay that reflects A fixed allowance, paid entirely in shares.
An award of shares with an allowance the skills and experience Individuals will receive shares that vest annual value of up to 100% of required for the role.
This will be immediately subject to any deductions required salary at the time of award.
delivered in shares which must for tax purposes and a retention period will be retained for the long term.
Shares will be released from the retention The fixed share allowance is not period in equal tranches over a five year period.
The fixed share allowance will broadly be paid in 1 arrears, currently in two instalments per year.
Benefits To provide a range of flexible and A set level of funding is provided and executive Set level of funding for benefits market competitive benefits to directors can select from a range of benefits currently 26,250 which is further aid recruitment and including: subject to review.
company car private medical insurance Further benefits such as life assurance relocation allowances and other ill health income protection benefits e. g. tax advice, housing and flight allowances and Also entitled to the use of a car and driver on payment of legal fees may be company business and standard benefits such offered in line with market as holiday and sick pay.
Further benefits including allowances when The value of benefits paid is relocating from overseas may be provided to disclosed each year in the secure the most suitable candidate for the role.
Pension To encourage planning for Provision of a monthly cash pension allowance Pension allowance of 35% of retirement and long-term based on a percentage of salary.
participate in a defined contribution pension scheme.
Note: 1 The company believes that delivery in shares is the most appropriate construct for a fixed allowance to executive directors, qualifying as fixed remuneration for the requirements imposed under CRD IV.
If regulatory requirements emerge that prohibit allowances being delivered in shares, or deem that such allowances will not qualify as fixed remuneration, then the company reserves the right to provide the value of the allowance in cash instead in order to comply with the requirements.
In 2015 the shares were awarded in August and November, during open periods for directors share dealings.
68 Directors Remuneration Policy Variable pay Variable pay is intended to incentivise superior long-term performance and promote the success of RBS, with rewards aligned with shareholders interests and adjusted for risk, based on the achievement of stretching performance measures.
Element of Purpose and link Performance metrics pay to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and period Variable pay To support a culture Any variable pay award The maximum level of Any award made will be award where good made will be delivered in the award is subject to any subject to performance long-term performance against a form of a long-term incentive, limit on the ratio of variable conditions measured over a incentive full range of measures paid in shares or in other to fixed pay as required by minimum three year period.
To instruments if required by regulators.
This currently incentivise the delivery regulators and subject to a limits variable pay to the Typical measures may fall of stretching targets in combination of time and level of fixed pay i. e. base under the following line with the Strategic performance-based vesting salary, fixed share categories weighted 25% Plan.
allowance, benefits and each : performance metrics pension.
A higher ratio, up Economic Profit will be closely aligned A minimum three year to 200% of fixed pay, is Relative TSR with key performance performance period will possible with shareholder Safe & Secure Bank indicators.
The award will have approval.
RBS is not Customers & People an overall five year vest intending to seek any such Performance is period, vesting equally in approval at the 2016 AGM.
An underpin gives the assessed against a years four and five.
Committee discretion to range of financial and For these purposes, reduce vesting amounts in non-financial measures As a minimum, shares will be awards will be valued in light of underlying financial to encourage superior subject to deferral and line with the EBA rules, results, or conduct and risk long-term value creation retention periods as required including any available management effectiveness.
These or similar measures Delivery in shares with Provisions for malus and weightings will be the ability to apply adjustment of unvested In addition to the applied to reflect the strategy malus adjustments and awards and clawback of regulatory ratio which going forward.
currently limits variable pay supports longer-term to the level of fixed pay, Details of the performance alignment with The long-term incentive awards for executive measures for awards to be shareholders interests.
award will be delivered under directors are subject to a granted in 2016 are set out the RBS 2014 Employee maximum of 300% of base as part of the implementation 1 Share Plan, as approved by salary.
of remuneration policy on shareholders at the 2014 page 75.
The vesting level of the award could vary between 0% and 100% dependent on the achievement of performance conditions.
Note: 1 Adjustments will be made to award levels where necessary to ensure that executive directors remain within the variable to fixed limit.
Other pay elements Purpose and link Element of pay to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Shareholding To ensure executive A period of five years is allowed in Chief Executive - 250% of salary.
requirements directors build and continue which to build up shareholdings to Chief Financial Officer - 125% of salary.
to hold a significant meet the required levels.
shareholding to align Requirements may be reviewed in future.
Any unvested share awards are excluded from the calculation.
69 Directors Remuneration Policy Recruitment remuneration policy Arrangements for the Chairman RBS considers both internal and external candidates and Under his letter of appointment, Howard Davies or RBS can assesses the skills and experience required for each role.
terminate his appointment by giving notice, such notice to take Pay is generally set at no more than is required to attract the immediate effect.
In the event that his election or re-election is most suitable candidate for the role.
not approved by shareholders, the appointment will terminate automatically with immediate effect.
No compensation or A buy-out policy exists to replace awards forfeited or payment in lieu of notice will be payable upon termination of his payments foregone.
The Committee will seek to minimise appointment.
buy-outs wherever possible and will seek to ensure they are no more generous than, and on substantially similar terms Election or re-election of directors to, the original awards or payments they are replacing.
No In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate sign-on awards or other payments will be offered.
Governance Code, all directors of the company stand for election or re-election annually by shareholders at the companys AGM.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be granted to new executive directors is the same as that applicable to Neither of the current executive directors hold a non-executive existing executive directors, excluding any buy-out director role at any other company.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the The Chairman and non-executive directors do not receive company variable pay.
The Committee retains oversight of remuneration policy for all employees to ensure there is a fair and consistent approach Service contracts and termination throughout the organisation.
The policy uses deferral, malus and RBS or the executive director is required to give 12 months clawback to promote effective risk management and alignment notice to the other party to terminate the executive directors with shareholders interests.
Consultation on remuneration generally takes place with our There are no pre-determined provisions for compensation social partners, including representatives from UNITE.
fully accredited Living Wage employer and we set our minimum pay including benefit funding higher than required for this.
There is discretion for RBS to make a payment in lieu of notice based on salary only which is released in monthly An annual employee opinion survey takes place which includes a instalments.
The executive director must take all reasonable number of questions on pay and culture.
This includes questions steps to find alternative work and any remaining instalments on how pay is determined and evaluated, including the need to will be reduced as appropriate to offset income from any consider both what and how outcomes have been achieved, such work.
and whether employees believe they are paid fairly for the work they do.
Any incentive awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules as approved by shareholders.
Any While employees are not directly consulted on the directors outstanding share awards held by good leavers will vest, remuneration policy, around 28,000 of our employees are normally on the original vesting dates, and shares from the shareholders through our incentive and all-employee share plans fixed share allowance will continue to be released over the and have the ability to express their views through voting on the applicable five year retention period in order to ensure Directors Remuneration Report.
former executive directors maintain an appropriate interest in RBS shares.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts or notice periods although they have letters of appointment reflecting their responsibilities and time commitments.
No compensation would be paid to any non-executive director in the event of termination of appointment.
70 Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors Element of Purpose and link Performance pay to strategy Operation Maximum potential value metrics and period Fees To provide a competitive Fees are paid monthly.
The rates for the year ahead are set n a level of fixed out in the annual report on remuneration that reflects The level of remuneration remuneration on the next page.
the skills, experience and reflects their responsibility and time commitment required time commitment and the level Any future increases to fees will be for the role.
of fees paid to directors of considered against fees paid to comparable major UK directors of comparable companies No variable pay is companies.
and will not normally be greater than provided so that the the average inflation rate over the Chairman and nonThe Chairman and nonperiod under review, taking into executive directors can executive directors do not account that any change in maintain appropriate participate in any incentive or responsibilities, role or time independence, focus on performance plan.
commitment may merit a larger long-term decision increase.
making and constructively Fees are reviewed regularly.
challenge performance of Additional fees may be paid for new the executive directors.
Board Committees provided these are not greater than fees payable for the existing Board Committees as detailed in the annual report on remuneration.
Benefits Any benefits offered Reimbursement of reasonable The value of the private medical n a would be in line with out-of-pocket expenses cover provided to the Chairman will market practice.
incurred in performance of be in line with market rates and duties.
disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
The Chairman also receives private medical cover.
71 Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration The sections audited by the company's auditors, Deloitte LLP, are as indicated.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 No changes have been made to the underlying policy for 2016.
Executive directors Pension Fixed share allowance Long-term incentive LTI award Salary Benefits 35% of salary 100% of salary 1 calculated in line with regulatory cap 2 Chief Executive 1,000,000 26,250 3 350,000 1,000,000 2,680,000 Chief Financial Officer 800,000 26,250 280,000 800,000 2,150,000 Notes: 1 Fixed share allowance will be payable broadly in arrears, currently in two instalments per year, and the shares will be released in equal tranches over a five year period.
2 The LTI that can be awarded in 2016 is limited to the level of fixed remuneration.
Before applying the discount factor for long-term deferral, calculated in line with EBA rules, the face value for the LTI is approximately 113% of fixed remuneration.
The performance measures and targets are set out on page 75.
3 Also entitled to a flight allowance as part of his relocation arrangements, the value of which will be disclosed in the total remuneration table.
Chairman and non-executive directors fees for 2016 Chairman composite fee 750,000 Non-executive director basic fee 72,500 Senior Independent Director 30,000 Group Audit Committee GAC, Group Performance and Remuneration Committee RemCo, Member 30,000 Board Risk Committee BRC and Sustainable Banking Committee SBC Chairman 60,000 Board Oversight Committee BOC for RCR, CIB and GRG Member 15,000 US Risk Committee Chairman 30,000 Group Nominations Committee until January 2016 Member 10,000 Group Nominations and Governance Committee from February 2016 Member 15,000 Morten Friis is the RBS Board nominated member of the Steering Group to oversee compliance remediation activities in respect of RBS US businesses for which he receives fees of 15,000 per annum.
In terms of changes for 2016, the RCR BOC held its final meeting in January 2016 and has been disbanded.
The expectation is that the GRG BOC will be stood down during the course of 2016.
A US Risk Committee has been established to comply with Enhanced Prudential Standards and to oversee risk management of our US operations.
The first meeting of the US Risk Committee will take place during 2016.
The Group Nominations Committee has been replaced by the Group Nominations and Governance Committee, with an expanded remit and a reduced number of members.
This is to deliver a more streamlined nominations process and a stronger overall governance framework for the Board and its Committees.
Total remuneration paid to executive directors for 2015 audited Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson 2015 2014 2015 2014 000s 000s 000s 000s Salary 1,000 1,000 800 497 Fixed share allowance 1,000 800 497 Benefits 1 88 143 26 16 Pension 350 350 280 174 Total fixed remuneration 1,493 1,184 2,438 1,906 n a n a Annual bonus n a n a 1,347 Long-term incentive award 2 324 Other awards 3 1,911 Total remuneration 3,785 1,817 1,906 3,095 Notes: 1 Benefits figure includes standard benefit funding of 26,250 per annum with the remainder being relocation expenses provided to Ross McEwan.
2 The value in 2015 for Ross McEwan relates to an LTI award granted in 2013.
The performance conditions ended on 31 December 2015 and have been assessed as set out on the next page.
The value for 2014 has been restated from the estimated value of 358,000 provided in the 2014 report to reflect the value on the vesting date in August 2015.
3 The amount shown for Ewen Stevenson in 2014 relates to an award made on appointment to replace the value of awards forfeited on leaving Credit Suisse.
The award was delivered entirely in shares and subject to deferral, on terms that are no more generous than the terms of the awards replaced.
72 Annual report on remuneration LTI vesting amount included in the total remuneration table audited Ross McEwan was granted an LTI award in March 2013 while CEO of UK Retail, prior to becoming Chief Executive in October 2013.
His change in role during the three year vesting period has resulted in a weighting of 25% based on performance of UK Retail and 75% based on RBS-wide measures.
The performance conditions ended on 31 December 2015 and the award is due to vest in March 2016.
The average share price over the last three months of the financial year has been used to estimate the vesting value.
Number of shares Vesting outcome for UK Vesting outcome for Final vesting outcome Number of shares to Average share price Value for total under award Retail measures 1 RBS-wide measures 2 weighted 25%:75% vest in March 2016 October December 2015 remuneration table 696,152 80% 56% 62% 431,614 3.12 1,346,636 Notes: 1 The performance measures applicable for UK Retail were based on: Financial targets weighted 50% covering risk weighted assets, RWAe, nominal assets, loan:deposit ratio, return on equity, operating profit, cost:income ratio: Customer measures weighted 10% : People measures weighted 10% : and Risk measures weighted 30%.
All financial targets were deemed to have been met in full other than the cost:income ratio which was considered partially met at 54% versus a 51% target.
The customer, people and risk measures were also ranked as partially met.
The Committee also considered recommendations from the BRC in determining the final outcome.
2 This element follows the performance conditions applicable to the overall RBS-wide measures for the 2013 LTI awards and the assessment is detailed below.
2013 LTI final assessment of RBS-wide performance measures audited An assessment of performance of each relevant element was provided by the control functions and PwC assessed relative TSR performance against a peer group of comparator banks.
The Committee determined overall vesting based on these assessments including consideration of the drivers of performance and the context against which it was delivered.
Performance for Vesting at Performance for maximum Vesting Weighted Performance Measure Weighting minimum vesting minimum 100% vesting Actual Performance outcome Vesting % Economic Profit 25% 3.5 billion 25% 1 billion 1.2 billion 62% 16% st TSR at upper 31 percentile Relative TSR 25% TSR at median 20% 0% 0% quartile ranking Balance Sheet & Risk 25% 25% Objectives met or 10 11 targets met 1 90% 22% Half objectives exceeded in all met Strategic Scorecard 25% 25% material respects 6 8 targets met 2 72% 18% 56% Overall vesting outcome 3 Notes: 1 The following ten targets were all met or exceeded over the performance period to 31 December 2015: Core Tier 1 capital 10%: leverage ratio 18x: wholesale funding 10%: liquidity reserves 1.5x short-term wholesale funding: loan:deposit ratio c. 100%: non-core run down and cumulative non-core loss before tax of c3.6bn: Core Tier 1 capital on fully loaded Basel 3 basis 10%: leverage ratio based on tangible equity 18x: liquidity coverage ratio 100%: net stable funding ratio 100%.
Some improvement was still needed in the conduct risk target which was deemed not to have been met.
2 The following six targets were met or exceeded: lending growth to be in line with market share and, for 2015, lending growth nominal UK GDP growth: retaining place in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index: leadership index to be within 5% of Global Financial Services GFS norm: engagement index to be within 5% of GFS norm: embedding the Groups values: succession planning in place across the franchises and functions.
The two targets that were not met were the cost:income ratio of 55% and customer targets where performance has improved but over the three year period the performance was not considered sufficient.
3 In determining the outcome above, the Committee reviewed financial and operational performance against the Strategic Plan and risk performance with input from the BRC.
73 Annual report on remuneration 2014 and 2015 LTI awards to executive directors current assessment audited The table represents an early indication of potential vesting outcomes only based on the position at 31 December 2015.
The 2014 LTI award is due to vest in March 2017 and the 2015 LTI award will vest equally in March 2019 and March 2020.
Details of performance against targets and any use of discretion will be disclosed once the awards vest.
Performance for Vesting at Performance for Vesting at 2014 current 2015 current Performance measure Weighting minimum vesting minimum maximum vesting maximum assessment assessment Performance Good progress Good progress and Minimum economic ahead of the 100% Economic Profit 25% 25% and broadly in line favourable to target profit targets Strategic set with target set Plan TSR at upper Between median Below median TSR at median of quartile of Relative TSR 25% 20% 100% and upper quartile performance for comparator group comparator vesting vesting group CET1 ratio is in CET1 ratio is in Target ranges set for: range for vesting.
CET1 ratio and Safe & Secure Bank 25% Cost:income ratio Cost:income ratio is Vesting between 0% 100% Cost:income ratio is broadly in line broadly in line with qualified by Committee discretion with target target taking into account the margin by Customer which targets have been missed Target ranges set for: measures behind Measures currently or exceeded Net Promoter Score, Customers & People 25% Net Trust Score for target range with tracking behind 2015 awards and People measures target range Employee Engagement on target LTI awards granted during 2015 audited Face value of Number of shares % vesting at minimum and Performance Grant date award 000s awarded 1 maximum requirements Conditional share awards subject to Ross McEwan 6 March 2015 1,560 417,486 Between 0% - 100% performance conditions, as set out above, with minimum vesting measured over the three year period from as set out above Ewen Stevenson 6 March 2015 2,160 578,128 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 Note: 1 The number of shares awarded is based on a multiple of salary, 156% for Ross McEwan and 270% for Ewen Stevenson, in line with the regulatory cap that limits variable pay to the level of fixed pay.
The award price of 3.7362 was calculated based on the average share price over five business days prior to the grant date.
74 Annual report on remuneration LTI awards to be granted to executive directors in 2016 Safe & Secure Bank 25% Performance criteria Reason: The Safe & Secure Bank measures have a particular The performance measures are designed to be stretching and to focus on risk reduction and the building of a safer, sustainable support delivery of the business strategy.
performance period will apply until 31 December 2018.
Subject to Measure: The key measures in this category are the the achievement of the performance conditions, shares will then achievement of pre-determined Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 vest in equal tranches in years four and five.
Any awards that and Cost:income C:I ratios.
vest will be subject to a retention period in line with regulatory requirements.
Performance target and weightings Category Metrics Performance target Awards granted to executive directors in March 2016 will be subject to four equally weighted performance categories, each CET1 ratio Target consistent with RBS strategic long able to vest up to 100% of base salary, subject to the maximum Safe & 12.5% term CET1 ratio target of 13% award that is possible under the approved policy and the Secure regulatory cap.
Details of the performance measures and the Bank Committees rationale for selecting them are set out below.
C:I ratio Target consistent with RBS strategic long 12.5% term C:I ratio target of 50% Economic Profit 25% Reason: Economic Profit, being a risk-adjusted financial measure, is consistent with regulatory requirements and provides Details of the actual targets, and performance against these, will a balance between measuring growth and the cost of capital be disclosed retrospectively after any vesting has been employed in delivering that growth.
determined, in the annual report on remuneration for 2018.
Measure: Economic Profit for the Group defined as profit after Customers & People 25% tax less preference share charges less tangible net asset value Reason: These measures reward management for building a multiplied by the cost of equity.
customer-focused business with strength in terms of trust, Performance target and weightings reputation and the engagement of employees.
Weighting Performance target Vesting range Measure: Net Promoter Scores NPS and Net Trust Scores Target consistent with the achievement of NTS will be used, measured against a defined peer group.
25% RBS strategic long term return on equity 25% - 100% Employee engagement will be measured against the Global target of 12% Financial Services GFS norm.
Performance target and weightings Details of the actual targets, and performance against these, will Category Metrics Performance target be disclosed retrospectively after any vesting has been Advocacy determined, in the annual report on remuneration for 2018.
NPS gap to #1 of 2.3 1 7.5% Customers Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% Trust & People NTS: NatWest 63, RBS 50 Reason: Relative TSR provides a direct connection between 5% executive directors awards and relative returns delivered to Engagement Employee Engagement Index one point shareholders.
12.5% above GFS norm Measure: The measure compares performance against a group Note: 1 The NPS metric adopted is a bank-wide measure of the gap to #1 bank, which of comparator banks.
The TSR comparator group has been RBS plans to close to zero by 2020.
It is calculated using the gap to #1 leading competitor in each customer segment, weighted by the revenue contribution of updated for awards made in 2016 to more accurately reflect the each segment.
business strategy with less focus on investment banking.
This The overall vesting under the above categories will be qualified has resulted in Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and UBS being by the Committees discretion taking into account changes in replaced by ING, Intesa San Paolo and Nordea.
The weighting of circumstances over the performance period, the margin by which Standard Chartered has been reduced to be in line with individual targets have been missed or exceeded, and any other continental European banks given its international focus.
Relative TSR Comparator Group Weighting Underpin 1 Barclays 200% The Committee will also review financial and operational 2 Lloyds Banking Group performance against the business strategy and the risk 3 HSBC 100% environment prior to agreeing vesting of awards.
In assessing the BBVA, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole, ING, risk considerations, the Committee will be advised independently 4 to 13 Intesa San Paolo, Nordea, Santander, Societe 50% by the BRC.
If the Committee considers that the vesting outcome Generale, Standard Chartered, Unicredit calibrated in line with the performance conditions outlined above Performance target and weightings does not reflect underlying financial results, or if the Committee is Weighting Performance target Vesting range not satisfied that conduct and risk management during the TSR between median and upper performance period has been effective, then the terms of the 25% 20% - 100% quartile awards allow for an underpin to be used to reduce vesting or lapse the award.
75 Annual report on remuneration Payments for loss of office audited Philip Hampton stood down from the Board on 31 August 2015.
No remuneration payment or payment for loss of office was made in connection with his departure.
Payments to past directors audited Stephen Hester and Bruce Van Saun received shares on 9 March 2015 on the vesting of the LTI award granted in 2012 as set out below.
The assessment of RBS-wide performance measures is detailed on page 85 of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Value of payments on vesting audited Stephen Hester Bruce Van Saun Maximum RBS Vested Maximum CFG Vested Performance category % vesting shares 2 RBS shares Value 3 shares 2 CFG shares Value 3 Economic Profit 53% 261,998 138,859 72,528 38,440 Relative TSR 68% 261,998 178,158 72,528 49,319 Balance Sheet & Risk 100% 261,998 261,998 72,528 72,528 Strategic Scorecard 25% 261,998 65,499 72,528 18,132 Initial vesting outcome based on above 61.5% 644,514 178,419 Final outcome post application of underpin 1 55.25% 579,279 2,131,747 160,360 $4,089,180 Check within maximum shares available to vest 785,995 217,586 Notes: 1 The Committee also considered recommendations from the BRC and concluded it would be appropriate to apply the risk and financial performance underpin in respect of the above awards.
This resulted in downward discretion being applied to reduce the final vesting outcome from 61.5% to 55.25%.
2 The maximum number of shares is calculated in line with the underlying award structure where each of the four performance categories could give rise to shares worth 100% of salary at grant but with the overall maximum capped at 300% of salary.
The number has been reduced on a pro rata basis to reflect time served by Stephen Hester.
The interests for Bruce Van Sauns award were converted to shares in Citizens Financial Group, Inc. as part of the IPO of that business.
3 Based on a RBS share price of 3.68 and Citizens Financial Group, Inc. share price of $25.50 on the date of vesting.
Total pension entitlements Bruce Van Saun audited Bruce Van Saun's Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme UURBS operated as a cash balance plan.
Under the rules of his UURBS, the benefit paid out on 1 April 2015 and there is no further entitlement to benefits from the scheme.
The current executive directors do not participate in RBS defined benefit pension arrangements but receive a cash allowance instead.
2015 2014 000s 000s Balance at 1 January 1,071 1,030 Investment return 7 41 Paid to Bruce Van Saun on 1 April 2015 1,078 Total value of fund at 31 December 1,071 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2015 audited While no changes were made to the fee structure during 2015, two additional Board Oversight Committees BOCs were established and fees are payable in line with those for the RCR BOC.
The CIB BOC was established in March 2015 with a mandate to oversee the implementation of the CIB strategy without placing additional burdens on the existing Committee framework.
The GRG BOC was established in May 2015 in order to provide oversight of the work and findings of the expert panel engaged to conduct an independent review of customer files and to provide advice in relation to matters generally related to GRG.
The total fees paid are set out below.
The Benefits column includes private medical cover.
2 Philip Hampton stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2015.
3 In line with market practice, non-executive directors are reimbursed expenses incurred in connection with their attendance at Board meetings.
To the extent that HMRC determines that any amounts are taxable, RBS will settle the associated tax liability on behalf of the non-executive director.
4 Under the Other column, Sandy Crombie received fees as the Senior Independent Director and Morten Friis received fees for his work on the US steering group.
Robert Gillespie was the RBS nominated director of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. CFG until 3 November 2015 for which he received fees, delivered in cash and in restricted stock units in CFG.
The value shown has been converted using an average exchange rate during 2015 of $1.528:1.
76 Annual report on remuneration Directors interests in shares and shareholding requirements audited The target shareholding requirement is to hold shares to the value of 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 125% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer and members of the Executive Committee, excluding any unvested share awards in the calculation.
A period of five years is allowed in which to build up shareholdings to meet the required levels.
Shareholding requirements will be considered when relevant individuals request permission to sell shares and the Committee receives annual updates on progress towards meeting these requirements.
Share interests held by executive directors Shareholding requirements for executive directors 2,462,472 974,781 Ross Ross McEwan McEwan 2,500,000 2,047,628 837,446 Ewen 277,300 Ewen Stevenson 1,000,000 Stevenson 1,013,739 Value of shares held Requirement Shares beneficially owned Unvested share awards Notes: 1 Ross McEwan holds 159,393 shares from his 2015 fixed share allowance that are included in the total shares beneficially owned but these have been excluded from the shareholding requirements calculation as he will transfer these shares to charity at the end of the retention period.
2 Value of shares held is based on the share price on 31 December 2015, which was 3.02.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the share price ranged from 2.83 to 4.04.
Share interests held by directors Shares owned at 31 December 2015 Unvested Unvested or date of cessation if earlier Long-term incentive awards Deferral Plan awards Ross McEwan 974,781 2,028,831 18,797 Ewen Stevenson 277,300 1,013,739 Howard Davies 1,000 Sandy Crombie 20,000 Alison Davis 20,000 Morten Friis 20,000 Robert Gillespie 25,000 Penny Hughes 562 Brendan Nelson 12,001 Baroness Noakes 21,000 Former Chairman Philip Hampton 27,630 No other director had an interest in the company's ordinary shares during the year or held a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the company at 31 December 2015, at 1 January 2015 or date of appointment if later.
The interests shown above include connected persons of the directors.
As at 25 February 2016, there were no changes to the directors' interests in shares shown in the table above.
Directors interests under the Groups share plans audited Long-term incentive awards Awards Award Awards Market price Value on Awards Awards held at Awards held at granted price vested on vesting vesting lapsed in 31 December 1 January 2015 in 2015 in 2015 2015 2015 Expected vesting date Ross McEwan 130,841 1 2.14 95,318 3.40 324,081 35,523 696,152 3.09 696,152 08.03.16 915,193 3.28 915,193 07.03.17 417,486 3.74 417,486 06.03.19 06.03.20 1,742,186 417,486 95,318 35,523 2,028,831 Ewen Stevenson 584,506 2 3.27 148,895 3.78 562,823 435,611 07.03.16 07.03.17 578,128 3.74 578,128 06.03.19 06.03.20 584,506 578,128 148,895 1,013,739 Deferred awards Awards Award Awards Market price Value on Awards Awards held at Awards held at granted price vested on vesting vesting lapsed in 31 December 1 January 2015 in 2015 in 2015 2015 2015 Expected vesting date Ross McEwan 37,596 3.09 18,799 3.78 71,060 18,797 08.03.16 Notes: 1 Relates to an award made to Ross McEwan on joining RBS as CEO UK Retail in September 2012 to replace awards forfeited on leaving Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
2 Award granted to Ewen Stevenson on appointment in May 2014 to replace awards forfeited on leaving Credit Suisse.
77 Annual report on remuneration Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The graph below shows the performance of RBS over the past seven years in terms of TSR compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The TSR for FTSE UK banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
Change in Chief Executive pay compared with employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration for the Chief Executive between 2014 and 2015 compared with the percentage change in the average remuneration of RBS employees based in the UK.
In each case, remuneration is based on salary, benefits and annual bonus.
Salary Benefits Annual Bonus 2014 to 2015 change 2014 to 2015 change 2014 to 2015 change Chief Executive 1 0% 0% n a UK employees 2 3.15% 3.71% 8.1% Notes: 1 Executive directors are not eligible for an annual bonus.
Standard benefit funding for executive directors remained unchanged between 2014 and 2015.
The benefits for the Chief Executive excludes the relocation expenses provided to Ross McEwan as part of his recruitment as CEO UK Retail in 2012.
The value of relocation benefits is disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
In 2015, Ross McEwan also received a fixed share allowance as part of his fixed pay.
2 Data represents full year salary costs of the UK based employee population, which covers the majority of RBS employees and is considered to be the most representative comparator group.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison of remuneration expenditure against other distributions and charges.
2015 1 2014 1 m m change Remuneration paid to all employees 2 5,208 5,225 0.3% Distributions to holders of ordinary shares Distributions to holders of preference shares and paid-in equity 3 385 699 45% Taxation and other charges recognised in the income statement: - Social security, Bank levy and Corporation tax 2,538 76% 597 - Irrecoverable VAT and other indirect taxes incurred by RBS 4 665 3.9% 691 Notes: 1 Numbers exclude discontinued operations, principally CFG.
2 Remuneration paid to all employees represents total staff expenses per Note 3 to the Financial Statements, exclusive of social security and other staff costs.
3 Includes initial payment relating to the initial dividend on the Dividend Access Share in 2014.
4 Input VAT and other indirect taxes not recoverable by RBS due to it being partially exempt.
The items above have been included as they reflect the key stakeholders for RBS and the major categories of distributions and charges made by RBS.
78 Annual report on remuneration Consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration Membership of the Group Performance and Remuneration Second quarter Committee Key external trends.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Group Sales and Service Incentive Committee annual directors.
The Committee held nine scheduled meetings in 2015 incentive report.
and a further two ad hoc meetings.
Divestment principles and leaver treatment.
Attended scheduled Third quarter Sandy Crombie Chairman 9 9 Removal of incentives for customer-facing employees in Alison Davis 9 9 PBB.
Robert Gillespie 9 9 Review of the implementation of the remuneration policy.
External environment including PRA changes to the The role and responsibilities of the Committee Remuneration Code.
The Committee is responsible for: Remuneration Policy Statement for the PRA.
approving the remuneration policy for all employees and Remuneration proposals for specific business areas including overseeing its implementation: Williams & Glyn, RCR, PBB and CIB.
reviewing performance and making recommendations to the Board in respect of the remuneration arrangements of the Fourth quarter executive directors: 2015 preliminary pay elements including bonus pool, deferral approving remuneration arrangements for members and and LTI awards.
formal attendees of the Executive Committee and employees Executive Committee members annual objectives for 2016. with total annual compensation which exceeds 1 million: Review of pay construct for executive directors.
and Stakeholder engagement and remuneration disclosures.
setting the remuneration framework and principles for Material Risk Takers falling within the scope of UK regulatory Performance evaluation process requirements.
The Committee has considered the findings of the annual review In mitigating potential conflicts of interest, directors are not of the effectiveness of the Committee which was conducted by involved in decisions regarding their own remuneration and Condign Board Consulting Limited, an external consultant.
remuneration advisers are appointed by the Committee rather than management.
The terms of reference of the Committee are Overall the review concluded that the Committee continued to reviewed annually and available on rbs.
Executives and non-executives continued to develop effective working relationships, supported by a more consistent operating rhythm.
In particular, the Masterclasses, Summary of the principal activity of the Committee in 2015 where in-depth consideration is given to specific matters, The Committee considered issues under the accountability continued to make a positive impact and the Committee had review process at every meeting.
Future pay construct and provided strong and consistent leadership of the remuneration people proposition was considered at the majority of meetings.
The review also identified scope for improvements in Set out below is a summary of other key activities considered by paper quality in some instances with the addition of more the Committee.
First quarter 2014 performance reviews and remuneration arrangements The review included a small number of general recommendations for members and attendees of the Executive Committee and which are relevant for both the Board and its senior committees.
Key themes and actions arising from these general Approval of variable pay pools and the Directors recommendations are set out in the Board report on pages 45 Remuneration Report.
and 46 and will be considered, and addressed as appropriate, at Assessment of the performance to date of unvested LTI Board level.
The review also recommended that all Committee awards and performance targets for 2015 awards.
Chairs should ensure continued focus on agenda planning and Executive Committee members 2015 objectives.
streamlined reporting to the Board, which will be a priority for the Committee during 2016.
The review did not include any specific recommendations relating solely to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
79 Annual report on remuneration Advisers to the Committee Shareholders views on the remuneration policy The Committee reviews its selection of advisers annually.
An extensive consultation is undertaken every year with major  LLP PwC was appointed as the shareholders including UKFI and other stakeholders on our Committees remuneration advisers on 14 September 2010 remuneration approach.
The process takes place in sufficient following a review of potential advisers, and the appointment was time for shareholders views to be considered prior to the reconfirmed by the Committee in July 2015 after an annual Committee making any final decisions on remuneration and review of the quality of the advice received and fees charged.
PwC is a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct in relation to remuneration consulting in the UK.
Discussions during the latest consultation covered a range of topics including strategic direction, employee engagement, IT PwC also provide professional services in the ordinary course of resilience and cyber security.
Shareholders asked a number of business including assurance, advisory, tax and legal advice to questions including the process for making adjustments to the RBS subsidiaries.
The Chairman of the Committee is notified of bonus pool in relation to conduct and litigation costs.
The other remuneration work that is being undertaken by PwC.
In Chairman of the Committee explained the bonus adjustment addition, there are processes in place to ensure the advice process and the need to consider the proximity of current received by the Committee is independent of any support employees when making such adjustments.
As well as receiving advice from PwC in 2015, the Committee took account at meetings of the views of The Chairman noted during discussions that, while bonus pool the Chairman: Chief Executive: Chief Financial Officer: Chief HR levels have been coming down year on year, it was important that Officer: the Director of Organisation and Performance: the Chief RBS did not become too disconnected from industry norms and Governance Officer and Board Counsel: the Chief Risk Officer: that a commercial approach was required.
and the Chief Conduct and Regulatory Affairs Officer.
The fees paid to PwC for advising the Committee in relation to directors Shareholders also asked if RBS was experiencing any difficulties remuneration are charged on a time cost basis and in 2015 in hiring employees in light of pay levels.
The Chairman of the amounted to 121,358 excluding VAT 2014 - 137,749.
Committee noted that, while RBS operates under a slightly different pay construct to some competitors, this may help to ensure employees that do join want to be part of RBS in the Statement of shareholding voting longer term.
The tables below set out the voting by shareholders on the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration at the In addition to the annual consultation process, two shareholder AGM held in June 2015 and the resolution at the AGM in June events took place in 2015 outside of the AGM to allow directors 2014 when the Directors Remuneration Policy was last to engage with private shareholders, regardless of the size of approved.
Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 AGM Shareholders continue to play a vital role in developing For Against Total votes cast Withheld remuneration practices that support the long-term interests of the 21,832,926,636 149,116,116 21,982,042,752 37,397,980 business and the Committee is grateful and greatly encouraged 99.32% 0.68% by their involvement in the process.
Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM For Against Total votes cast Withheld 20,893,215,888 70,382,756 20,963,598,644 170,307,216 Shareholder dilution 99.66% 0.34% During the ten year period to 31 December 2015, awards made that could require new issue shares under the company's share plans represented 4.8% of the company's issued ordinary share capital, leaving an available dilution headroom of 5.2%.
The company meets its employee share plan obligations through a combination of new issue shares and market purchase shares.
Sandy Crombie Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 25 February 2016 80 Other Remuneration Disclosures Remuneration of eight highest paid senior executives below Board 1 000s Executive 1 Executive 2 Executive 3 Executive 4 Executive 5 Executive 6 Executive 7 Executive 8 Fixed pay cash 725 725 600 638 550 575 600 600 Fixed allowances 959 959 600 638 550 288 600 300 Annual bonus Long-term incentive awards vested value 458 458 735 513 363 494 Total remuneration 2 2,142 2,142 1,935 1,789 1,463 1,357 1,200 900 Notes: 1 Remuneration earned in 2015 for eight members of the Executive Committee.
Full year earnings have been reported including those individuals promoted to the Executive Committee part way through 2015.
2 Disclosure includes prior year long-term incentive awards which vested during 2015.
The amounts shown reflect the value of vested awards using the share price on the day the awards vested.
Accountability review process and malus clawback How risk is reflected in our remuneration process An accountability review process is operated that allows RBS to The RBS remuneration policy explicitly aligns remuneration with respond in instances where new information would change the effective risk management.
Focus on risk is achieved through variable pay decisions made in previous years and or the clear risk input into objectives, performance reviews, the decisions to be made in the current year.
Under the determination of variable pay pools and incentive plan design as accountability review process, RBS can apply malus and well as the application of malus and clawback.
supported in this by the BRC and the RBS Risk function.
Malus can be applied to reduce if appropriate to zero the A robust process is used to assess risk performance.
A range of amount of any variable pay awards prior to payment taking place.
measures are considered, specifically the overall Risk Profile: Clawback provisions can also be applied to recover awards that Credit, Regulatory and Conduct Risk: Operational Risk: have vested.
Any variable pay awarded to Material Risk Takers Enterprise Risk: and Market Risk.
The steps we take to ensure from 1 January 2015 onwards is subject to clawback for seven appropriate and thorough risk adjustment are also fully disclosed years from the date of grant.
For the 2016 performance year this and discussed with the PRA and the FCA.
period can be extended to ten years for executive directors and other Senior Managers under the PRA Senior Manager regime.
Variable pay pool determination Malus and clawback can be applied to current and former For the 2015 performance year, RBS has operated a multi-step employees.
process which is a control function led assessment to determine performance and therefore the appropriate bonus pool by There are a number of trigger events under which malus and franchise and function.
clawback will be considered including: The process considers a balanced scorecard of performance the individual participating in or being responsible for assessments at the level of each franchise or support function.
conduct which results in significant losses for RBS: The assessments are made across financial, customer and the individual failing to meet appropriate standards of fitness people measures.
Risk and conduct assessments at the same and propriety: franchise or functional level are then undertaken to ensure that reasonable evidence of an individuals misbehaviour or performance achieved without the appropriate risk and conduct material error: controls and culture is not inappropriately rewarded.
RBS or the individuals relevant business unit suffering a material failure of risk management: and BRC will then review any material risk and conduct events and if in the case of malus only, circumstances where there has appropriate an underpin may be applied to the individual been a material downturn in financial performance.
business and function bonus pools and where appropriate to the overall RBS bonus pool.
BRC may recommend reduction of a How have we applied this in practice?
bonus pool if it considers that risk and conduct performance is During 2015 a number of issues and events were considered unacceptable or that the impact of poor risk management has yet under the accountability review framework.
The outcomes to be fully reflected in the respective inputs.
covered a range of actions including: reduction and forfeiture of unvested awards through malus: reduction of current year Following further review against overall performance and variable pay awards: dismissal with forfeiture of unvested conduct, the Chief Executive will make a final recommendation to awards: and suspension of awards pending further investigation.
the Committee, informed by all the previous steps in the process and his strategic view of the business.
The Committee will then Remuneration regulatory requirements make an independent decision on the final bonus pool taking all As in previous years, we have received the required regulatory of these earlier steps into account.
confirmation in order to conclude our year end remuneration process.
81 Other Remuneration Disclosures Our remuneration policy for all employees The remuneration policy supports the business strategy and is designed to promote the long-term success of RBS.
It aims to reward employees for delivering good performance against targets provided this is achieved in a manner consistent with our values and within acceptable risk parameters.
The remuneration policy applies the same principles to all employees including Material Risk Takers MRTs subject to UK regulatory requirements 1.
The current key elements underpinning the remuneration policy are set out below.
Element of pay Objective Operation Base salary To aid recruitment and retention Base salaries are reviewed annually and should reflect the talents, skills and of high performing individuals competencies that the individual brings to the business.
whilst paying no more than is necessary.
To provide a competitive level of fixed cash remuneration, reflecting the skills and experience required, and to discourage excessive risk taking.
Role-based To provide fixed pay that reflects Allowances are provided to certain employees in key roles in line with market allowance the skills and experience required practice and qualify as fixed remuneration for regulatory requirements.
are delivered in cash and or shares depending on the level of the allowance and the seniority of the recipient.
Shares are subject to an appropriate retention period, not less than six months.
Benefits To provide a range of flexible and In most jurisdictions, employee benefits or a cash equivalent are provided including market competitive benefits.
To from a flexible benefits account.
pension encourage planning for retirement and long-term savings.
Annual bonus To support a culture where The annual bonus pool is based on a balanced scorecard of measures employees recognise the including customer, financial, risk and people measures.
Allocation from the importance of serving customers pool depends on performance of the franchise or function and the individual.
well and are rewarded for Individual performance assessment is supported by a structured performance superior performance.
Immediate cash awards are limited to a maximum of 2,000.
Under the deferral arrangements a significant proportion of annual bonus awards for our more senior employees are deferred over a minimum three year period.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
For MRTs, a minimum of 50% of any annual bonus is delivered in shares and subject to a minimum six month retention period post vesting in line with regulatory requirements.
Guaranteed awards are only used in very limited circumstances in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Long-term To support a culture where good RBS provides certain employees in senior roles with long-term incentive incentive performance against a full range awards.
Awards are structured as performance-vesting shares.
Performance awards of measures will be rewarded.
To is typically measured over a three year period.
encourage the creation of value over the long term and to align The amount of the award that vests may vary between 0% -100% depending further the rewards of the on the performance achieved.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback participants with the returns to provisions and a minimum six month retention period applies to MRTs post shareholders.
Other share To offer employees in certain Employees in certain countries are eligible to contribute to share plans which plans jurisdictions the opportunity to are not subject to performance conditions.
Note: 1 The EBA has issued criteria for identifying MRT roles i. e. staff whose professional activities have a material influence over RBS performance or risk profile.
The criteria for identifying MRTs are both Qualitative based on the nature of the role and Quantitative i. e. those who exceed the stipulated total remuneration threshold based on the previous years total remuneration.
The Qualitative criteria can be summarised as: staff within the management body: senior management: other staff with key functional or managerial responsibilities: staff, individually or as part of a Committee, with authority to approve new business products or to commit to credit risk exposures and market risk transactions above certain levels.
The Quantitative criteria are: individuals earning 500,000 or more in the previous year: individuals in the top 0.3% of earners in the previous year: individuals who earned more than the lowest paid identified staff per the Qualitative criteria, subject to specific exceptions in the criteria.
In accordance with UK regulatory requirements and the RBS Staff Dealing Rules, the conditions attached to discretionary share-based awards prohibit the use of any personal hedging strategies to lessen the impact of a reduction in value of such awards.
82 Other Remuneration Disclosures Remuneration of MRTs 4.
Sign-on and severance payments The quantitative disclosures below are made in accordance with RBS does not operate Sign-on awards.
Guaranteed variable Article 450 of the EU Capital Requirements Regulation in relation remuneration may be used for new hires in compensation for to 707 employees who have been identified as MRTs.
awards foregone in their previous company.
One such payment of 320,000 is included in the tables above.
Aggregate remuneration expenditure commitment on recruitment made in respect of one new Aggregate remuneration expenditure in respect of 2015 employee.
These awards are still subject to deferral.
performance was as follows: PBB CPB CIB Rest of RBS Total No severance payments were made outside of contractual m m m m m payments or standard policy entitlements related to termination of 17.9 35.4 118.1 198.9 370.3 employment such as pay in lieu of notice and benefits.
Amounts and form of fixed and variable remuneration Notes on the presentation of remuneration In the relevant tables above, assumptions have been made for Fixed remuneration for 2015 the notional value of LTI verified by external advisors and Consisted of salaries, allowances, pensions and benefits.
forfeitures through resignation for deferred awards.
In addition, the share price relevant to the date of the event or valuation point Senior management Other MRTs Total has been used.
Number of beneficiaries 11 696 707 m m m All staff total remuneration Total fixed remuneration 16.5 225.2 241.7 The average salary for all employees is 37,000.
Variable remuneration awarded for 2015 performance 6,000 employees earn between 100,000 and 250,000.
Consisted of deferred awards payable over a minimum three year 1,100 employees earn total remuneration over 250,000. period.
Under the RBS bonus deferral structure cash awards are limited to 2,000 per employee.
Number of Number of Total remuneration by band for all employees employees Senior employees earning 1 million 2015 2014 management Other MRTs Total 1.0m - 1.5m 59 67 Number of beneficiaries 482 482 1.5m - 2.0m 33 32 m m m Variable remuneration cash 1.8 1.8 2.0m - 2.5m 13 17 Deferred remuneration bonds 10.6 10.6 2.5m - 3.0m 7 4 Deferred remuneration shares 82.1 82.1 3.0m - 3.5m 4 4 3.5m - 4.0m 1 1 Long-term incentive awards for 2015 performance 4.0m - 4.5m 2 0 Long-term incentive awards vest subject to the extent to which 4.5m - 5.0m 0 1 performance conditions are met and can result in zero payment.
5.0m - 6.0m 1 4 Senior 6.0m - 7.0m 1 1 management Other MRTs Total Total 121 131 Number of beneficiaries 11 104 115 m m m Notes: 1 Total remuneration in the table above includes fixed pay, pension and benefit Long-term incentive awards 17.5 16.6 34.1 funding and variable pay including actual value of LTI vesting in 2015 after the application of malus.
The variable component of total remuneration for MRTs at RBS 2 Executive directors and employees of CFG are not included in the table.
The table is based on an exchange rate where applicable of 1.377 to 1 as at 31 shall not exceed 100% of the fixed component.
Based on the December 2015 and amounts disclosed for 2014 have been restated using the information disclosed above, the average ratio between fixed and same exchange rate so that comparison can be made on a like for like basis.
variable remuneration for 2015 is approximately 1:0.5 Employees that earned total remuneration of over 1 million in 2015 represent just 0.1% of our employees.
Outstanding deferred remuneration through 2015 to 105 employees if we exclude pension and benefit funding.
The table below includes deferred remuneration awarded or paid These employees include those who manage major businesses out in 2015 in respect of prior performance years.
Deferred and functions with responsibility for significant assets, earnings or remuneration reduced during the year relates to long-term areas of strategic activity and can be grouped as follows: incentives lapsed when performance conditions are not met, The CEOs responsible for each area and their direct reports.
long-term incentives and deferred awards forfeited on leaving Employees managing large businesses within a franchise.
and malus of prior year deferred awards and long-term Income generators responsible for high levels of income incentives.
including those involved in managing trading activity and Senior management Other MRTs supporting clients with more complex financial transactions, Category of deferred remuneration m m including financial restructuring.
Unvested from prior year 28.5 304.9 Those responsible for managing our balance sheet and Awarded during the financial year 14.8 140.5 liquidity and funding positions across the business.
Paid out 8.1 134.9 Employees managing the successful disposal of assets in Reduced from prior years 1.1 54.0 RCR and reducing RBS capital requirements.
Unvested at year end 34.2 256.9 83 Compliance report Statement of compliance Ongoing processes for the identification, evaluation and RBS is committed to high standards of corporate governance, management of the principal risks faced by RBS operated business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
throughout the period from 1 January 2015 to 25 February 2016, the date the directors approved the Annual Report & Accounts.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015, RBS has These processes include the semi-annual Control Environment complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Certification process which requires senior members of the Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council executive and management to assess the adequacy and dated September 2014 the Code except in relation to effectiveness of their internal control frameworks and certify that provision D. 2.2 that the Group Performance and Remuneration their business or function is compliant with the requirements of Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the UK Corporate Governance remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
The policies that govern these processes considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for and reports on internal controls arising from them are reviewed the Board and this is an approach RBS has adopted for a number by the Board and meet the requirements of the Financial of years.
Remuneration for the executive directors is first Reporting Councils Guidance On Risk Management Internal considered by the Group Performance and Remuneration Control & Related Financial & Business Reporting issued in Committee which then makes recommendations to the Board for September 2014. consideration.
This approach allows all non-executive directors, and not just those who are members of the Group Performance RBS operates a three lines of defence model, which provides a and Remuneration Committee, to participate in decisions on the framework for responsibilities and accountabilities across the executive directors and the Chairmans remuneration and also organisation.
As part of their second line of defence roles, the allows the executive directors to input to the decision on the Risk and Conduct & Regulatory Affairs functions oversee and Chairmans remuneration.
The Board believes this approach is challenge the firm-wide management of risk and the efficacy of very much in line with the spirit of the Code and no director is the related controls.
In addition, the Risk function is responsible involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
We for developing material risk policies and strategic frameworks for do not anticipate any changes to our approach on this aspect of the business to use.
Information on how RBS has applied the main principles of the Code can be found in the Corporate governance The effectiveness of RBSs internal controls is reviewed regularly report on pages 36 to 83.
A copy of the Code can be found at by the Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk www.
Internal Audit undertakes independent assurance activities and provides reports to the Board and executive RBS has also implemented the recommendations arising from management on the quality and effectiveness of governance, risk the Walker Review and complied in all material respects with the management and internal controls to monitor, manage and Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees mitigate risks in achieving the banks objectives.
In addition, the issued in September 2012.
Board receives monthly risk management reports.
Executive management committees in each of the RBS businesses also Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific standards of receive regular reports on significant risks facing their business corporate governance and business and financial disclosures and and how they are being controlled.
Details of the banks approach controls apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
to risk management are given in the Capital and Risk RBS complies with all applicable sections of the US SarbanesManagement section.
Oxley Act of 2002, subject to a number of exceptions available to foreign private issuers.
Over recent years, RBS has made progress strengthening the control environment.
However, more needs to be done.
The bank Internal control is continuing on its journey of improvement, building on the The Board of Directors is responsible for the system of internal established control environment, strengthening and remediating controls that is designed to maintain effective and efficient where appropriate.
Areas of particular focus during 2015 included operations, compliant with applicable laws and regulations.
The the work carried out to continue embedding the three lines of system of internal controls is designed to manage, or mitigate, defence model see page 136 for further details.
In addition, prerisk to an acceptable residual level rather than eliminate it existing risk appetite has been strengthened with enhanced entirely.
Systems of internal control can only provide reasonable statements introduced across risk types and business disciplines and not absolute assurance against material misstatement, fraud to support a robust and holistic control approach.
this, progress has been made in establishing a consistent end-toend risk and control assessment process across RBS.
Allied with continuing efforts aimed at developing, enhancing and embedding a strong and dynamic risk culture across each of the franchises and functions, these programmes and other initiatives will continue in 2016.
84 Compliance report The remediation of known control issues remained an important Changes in internal control focus of the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk There was no change in RBSs internal control over financial Committee during 2015.
For further information on their oversight reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report of remediation of the most significant issues, please refer to the that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially Report of the Group Audit Committee and the Report of the affect, RBSs internal control over financial reporting.
The Group Audit Committee has received confirmation that management has taken, or is taking, action to The New York Stock Exchange remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified through As a foreign issuer with American Depository Shares RBSs control framework.
The Group Audit Committee and the representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt Board Risk Committee will continue to focus on such remediation securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange the NYSE, activity, particularly in view of the transformation agenda.
RBS is not required to comply with all of the NYSE standards applicable to US domestic companies the NYSE Standards While not being part of the banks system of Internal control, the provided that it follows home country practice in lieu of the NYSE banks independent auditors present to the Group Audit Standards and discloses any significant ways in which its Committee reports that include details of any significant internal corporate governance practices differ from the NYSE Standards.
control deficiencies they have identified.
Further, the system of RBS is also required to provide an Annual Written Affirmation to internal controls is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK the NYSE of its compliance with the applicable NYSE Standards.
Additional details of regulatory oversight are given in the Capital & Risk Management section.
The Group Audit Committee fully complies with the mandatory provisions of the NYSE Standards including by reference to the Internal control over financial reporting rules of the Exchange Act that relate to the composition, RBS is required to comply with Section 404 of the US  and operation of audit committees.
In April 2015, Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control the company submitted its required annual written affirmation to over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015. the NYSE confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable provisions.
More detailed information about the Group RBS has assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over Audit Committee and its work during 2015 is set out in the Group financial reporting as of 31 December 2015 based on the criteria Audit Committee report on pages 49 to 54. set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the 2013 publication of Internal Control RBS has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and is - Integrated Framework'.
satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSE Standards, subject to the following departures: i the Chairman of the Board Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of is also the Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee, which 31 December 2015, RBSs internal control over financial is permitted under the Code since the Chairman was considered reporting is effective.
independent on appointment : ii although the members of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee are deemed RBSs auditors have audited the effectiveness of RBSs internal independent in compliance with the provisions of the Code, the control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified Board has not assessed the independence of the members of the opinion.
Group Performance and Remuneration Committee and of its compensation committee advisers in accordance with the Management's report on RBSs internal control over financial independence tests prescribed by the NYSE Standards: and iii reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange the NYSE Standards require that the compensation committee Commission as part of the 2015 Annual Report on Form 20-F. must have direct responsibility to review and approve the Chief Executives remuneration.
As stated at the start of this Disclosure controls and procedures Compliance report, in the case of RBS, the Board, rather than the As required by US regulations, management including the Chief Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, reserves the Executive and Chief Financial Officer have conducted an authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of evaluation of the effectiveness and design of RBSs disclosure the Chief Executive.
RBSs Group Audit, Board Risk, Sustainable controls and procedures as defined in the Exchange Act rules Banking and Group Nominations Committees are otherwise as at 31 December 2015.
Based on this evaluation, management composed solely of non-executive directors deemed by the Board including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to be independent.
concluded that RBSs disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual This Compliance report forms part of the Corporate governance report.
report and the Report of the directors.
85 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited Private Banking serves UK connected high net worth accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015. individuals.
RBS International RBSI serves retail, commercial, Group structure corporate and financial institution customers in Jersey, The company is a holding company owning the entire issued Guernsey, Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
ordinary share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the CIB serves UK and Western European corporate customers, and principal direct operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
global financial institutions, supported by trading and distribution Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the company platforms in the UK, US and Singapore.
are shown in Note 7 on page 361 and 362.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings of the company is shown in Note 15 on pages 365 Capital Resolution includes CIB Capital Resolution and the to 373. remainder of RBS Capital Resolution RCR.
Williams & Glyn W&G comprises RBS England and Wales Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April branch-based businesses, along with certain small and medium 2009, HM Treasury HMT owned approximately 70.3% of the enterprises and corporate activities across the UK.
During the enlarged ordinary share capital of the company.
In December period presented W&G has not operated as a separate legal 2009, the company issued a further 25.5 billion of new capital to entity.
The perimeter of the segment currently reported does not HMT in the form of B shares.
HMT sold 630 million of its holding include certain portfolios that are ultimately intended to be of the companys ordinary shares in August 2015.
In October divested as part of W&G, for example, certain NatWest branches 2015 HMT converted its entire holding of 51 billion B shares into in Scotland.
5.1 billion new ordinary shares of 1 each in the company.
Central items & other includes corporate functions, such as At 31 December 2015, HMTs holding in the companys ordinary treasury, finance, risk management, compliance, legal, shares was 72.6%.
Central functions manages RBS capital resources and RBS-wide regulatory Organisational change projects and provides services to the reportable segments.
On 26 February 2015, RBS announced its commitment to Balances in relation to Citizens and the international private becoming a leaner, less volatile business based around its core banking business are included in Central items in the relevant franchises of Personal & Business Banking PBB and periods.
To support this, a number of initiatives have been announced which include but are not Results and dividends limited to: The loss attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the company for the year ended 31 December 2015 amounted to 1,979 million compared with a loss of 3,470 million for the year ended the restructuring of Corporate & Institutional Banking CIB 31 December 2014, as set out in the consolidated income into go-forward CIB and CIB Capital Resolution: statement on page 260. the divestment of Citizens: the sale of the international private banking business: and The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2014 the run down of RBS Capital Resolution RCR, one year or 2015. ahead of schedule.
In the context of prior macro-prudential policy discussions, the Business structure Board decided to partially neutralise any impact on Core Tier 1 RBS continues to deliver on its plan to build a strong, simple and capital of coupon and dividend payments in respect of 2014 and fair bank for both customers and shareholders.
To support this 2015 Group hybrid capital instruments through equity issuances and reflect the progress made on the initiatives above the of c. 300 million.
Consequently, approximately 300 million was previously reported operating segments will now realign as raised during 2014 and 2015 through the issue of new ordinary follows: shares and the Board has decided a further 300 million of new Personal & Business Banking PBB comprises two reportable equity will be issued during the course of 2016 to again partially segments: neutralise the CET1 impact of coupon and dividend payments.
UK PBB serves individuals and mass affluent customers The Dividend Access Share DAS retirement agreement was in the UK together with small businesses generally up to approved at the General Meeting of shareholders held on 25 2 million turnover.
UK PBB includes Ulster Bank June 2014.
The first dividend payment on the DAS of 320 customers in Northern Ireland.
million was made in the third quarter of 2014.
The balance of Ulster Bank RoI serves individuals and businesses in the 1.18 billion is subject to an uplift at 5% per annum from 1 Republic of Ireland RoI.
The uplift rate on any unpaid balance is 10% per annum thereafter.
RBS intends to pay a final Commercial & Private Banking CPB comprises three reportable dividend on the Dividend Access Share DAS during the first half segments: of 2016 subject to final Board and PRA approval, further Commercial Banking serves commercial and corporate normalising the capital structure of the bank and removing an customers in the UK and Western Europe.
obstacle toward the resumption of capital distributions.
86 Report of the directors Business review In September 2013, RBS reached an agreement with an investor Activities consortium led by Corsair Capital and Centerbridge Partners for RBS is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking an investment in these businesses ahead of a stock market and other financial services.
Further details of the organisational flotation.
This includes 308 RBS branches in England and Wales.
structure and business overview of RBS, including the products The new bank will be called Williams & Glyn, the brand RBS and services provided by each of its segments, are contained in used for its branches in England and Wales before 1985.
The the Business review on page 93.
Details of the strategy for Groups target remains full divestment by the end of 2017. delivering the companys objectives can be found in the Strategic report.
Following an IPO in 2014 when RBS disposed of 30% of its shareholding in Citizens Financial Group Inc. RBS disposed of Risk factors further tranches of shares in March 2015 28%, August 2015 RBSs future performance and results could be materially 21% and October 2015 21%.
Consequently, RBS has different from expected results depending on the outcome of completed its divestment of Citizens.
certain potential risks and uncertainties.
Full details of these and other risk factors are set out on pages 390 to 414.
Employees As at 31 December 2015, RBS employed 93,659 people full-time The reported results of RBS are also sensitive to the accounting equivalent basis, including temporary workers throughout the policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation world.
Details of related costs are included in Note 3 on the of its financial statements.
Details of RBSs critical accounting consolidated accounts.
policies and key sources of accounting judgments are included in Accounting policies on pages 276 to 279.
Living our values Our values, introduced in 2012, guide our actions every day, in RBSs approach to risk management, including its financial risk every part of our business.
They are at the heart of the way we management objectives and policies and information on RBSs work.
They are embedded within our behavioural frameworks - exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed this means the way we recruit, promote, reward and manage our in the Business review: Capital and risk management.
Financial performance Building a healthy culture and risk culture that lives up to our A review of RBS's performance during the year ended 31 values is one of our core priorities.
We have governance to December 2015, including details of each segment, and RBS's monitor and guide and track progress on our cultural goals.
We financial position as at that date is contained in the Business gather qualitative and quantitative feedback to assess our review on pages 101 to 127. progress and respond accordingly.
We do this in tandem with feedback from regulators and industry bodies.
RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by RBS, Engaging our people the Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander completed We recognise that building an engaged, healthy and inclusive the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. workforce is crucial if we are to achieve our ambition.
We continue to ask people across the Bank to share their thoughts Following the announcements in April 2011 by the Boards of on what its like to work at RBS via our annual employee survey RBSG, RBS plc, RBS Holdings and RBS N. V. a substantial part OurView.
The results enable our people leaders to monitor of the business activities of RBS N. V. had been successfully levels of engagement and work with their teams to make transferred to RBS plc by the end of 2012, with further transfers improvements.
It also enables us to monitor employee perception in 2013 and 2014.
There have been no transfers in 2015, the and the progress we are making versus our goals.
Our most focus continues to be on further fide-risking the RBS N. V. balance recent survey, in which more than 62,000 colleagues took part, sheet.
showed significant improvement in employee engagement and leadership.
Business divestments In 2015 we launched determined to make a difference, an To comply with the European Commission State Aid internal campaign that provides a rallying call for our employees.
requirements RBS agreed a series of restructuring measures.
It was drawn from our extensive research with staff and is based These include the divestment of Direct Line Insurance Group plc on their reflections about the difference we make for our completed in 2014 the sale of 80.01% of RBSs Global customers, colleagues, communities and shareholders.
Merchant Services business completed in 2010 and the sale of substantially all of the RBS Sempra Commodities joint venture business largely completed in 2010, as well as the divestment of the RBS branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, along with the direct SME customers across the UK UK branch-based businesses.
87 Report of the directors Rewarding our people Employee consultation Our approach to performance management allows us to provide We recognise employee representatives such as trade unions clarity for our people about how their individual contribution links and work councils in a number of businesses and countries.
It recognises behaviour that supports our values There has been ongoing engagement and discussion with those and holds individuals to account for behaviour and performance bodies given the changes the bank announced in February 2015. that does not.
Management have continued to meet regularly with our European Employee Council to discuss developments and update on the In the UK we are a living wage employer meaning that we progress of our strategic plans.
adhere to Living Wage Benchmarks both national and London for all employees.
All third party contractors who regularly work in Inclusion our buildings will also be in scope by 2017 at the latest.
Building a more inclusive bank is essential for our customers and colleagues.
Our inclusion policy standard applies to all our people In 2015, we announced the removal of incentive schemes for our globally.
customer facing employees in Personal & Business Banking.
Instead, we gave every eligible employee an increase to their During 2015 we continued our roll out of unconscious bias guaranteed pay.
This change ensures that our people are paid learning for all employees.
Weve introduced a gender goal to clearly, fairly and simply for the job they do for our customers have at least 30% of women in the banks top three leadership every day.
It also ensures our customers can be certain that if levels by 2020.
Further, we aim to have 50 50 balance at all they take a product from us, it has no financial impact on what levels by 2030.
This is supported by the launch of a female our people are paid.
An increased focus on disability has led to the development of a comprehensive plan to support our Developing our people colleagues and customers with additional needs and will help Developing great leaders with the capability to deliver our RBS achieve its ambition of becoming a disability smart ambition is a key priority.
In 2015, we launched Determined to organisation.
From an LGBT perspective, we continue to deliver lead, a programme that focuses on great people management, a improvements to our people policies and customer operating consistent tone from leaders throughout the Bank and the tools to procedures, including the introduction of guidance to support engage our people.
In 2015 we trained over 13,000 leaders.
employees going through gender transition, introducing the Mx honorific, and improving our customer gender change process.
We are committed to professionalising all our people.
We offer a We are finalising plans to improve our ethnic representation wide range of learning which can be mandatory, role specific or within senior roles and are continuing to support our 15,000 related to personal development.
We have mandatory learning that has to be completed by RBS has been recognised for its work on Equality, Diversity and everyone and is focused on keeping our people, our customers Inclusion by our Platinum ranking from Opportunity Now gender and the Bank safe.
Elements of our learning have been aligned to - our Gold ranking for Race for Opportunity race : retaining a the Chartered Banker: Professional Standards Board foundation position in the Times Top 50 Employers for Women: and standards.
We committed that our people in the UK excluding improving upon our ranking in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Williams & Glyn and Ulster Bank would complete this learning in Index LGBT.
Sustainability Youth employment Our purpose is to serve customers well.
We will rebuild our We have hired over 250 graduates and over 300 Apprentices in reputation and earn our customers trust by putting customers 2015.
We have been accredited by Investors in Young People first, making RBS a great place to work, supporting our for how we attract, recruit and develop our talent.
communities and being mindful of environmental impacts.
The Sustainable Banking Committees role is to support the Board in Health and wellbeing of our people overseeing, supporting and challenging actions being taken by We offer a wide range of health benefits and services to help management to run the bank as a sustainable business.
maintain physical and mental health, and support our people if they become unwell.
For more information on our approach and progress please read the RBS Sustainability Report, available on rbs.
In 2015, our wellbeing programme focused on three main areas: Mental Health, Physical Health and Resilience.
Activities include Greenhouse gas emissions the continued promotion of Lifematters RBSs Employee Disclosures relating to greenhouse gas emissions are included in Assistance Programme, participation in the Global Corporate the Strategic report on page 35.
Challenge, the launch of Resilience programmes and continued support for Time to Change, the UKs biggest programme to challenge mental health stigma.
88 Report of the directors Going concern During 2015, the company allotted and issued a total of 90.1 RBSs business activities and financial position, the factors likely million new ordinary shares of 1 each for the purposes of to affect its future development and performance and its ensuring 2015 coupon payments on discretionary hybrid capital objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it securities were partly neutralised from a Core Tier 1 capital is exposed and its capital are discussed in the Business review.
The shares were allotted to UBS AG at the The risk factors which could materially affect RBSs future results subscription prices determined by reference to the average are set out on pages 390 to 414.
RBSs regulatory capital market prices during the sale periods set out below.
resources and significant developments in 2015 and anticipated Number of Subscription Share price on future developments are detailed on pages 145 to 160.
The shares sold price Sale period Gross proceeds allotment liquidity and funding section on pages 159 to 170 describes 21.3m 352.070p 26 2 15-15 4 15 75 million 355.7p RBSs funding and liquidity profile, including changes in key 21.3m 352.811p 30 4 15-11 6 15 75 million 361.5p metrics, the build up of liquidity reserves and the outlook for 47.5m 315.942p 30 7 15-17 12 15 150 million 294.7p 2016.
In the three years to 31 December 2015, the percentage increase Having reviewed RBSs forecasts, projections and other relevant in issued share capital due to non-pre-emptive issuance evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that RBS excluding employee share schemes for cash was 2.2.
and the company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements of RBS In addition, the company issued 69 million shares in connection and of the company have been prepared on a going concern with employee share schemes during 2015. basis.
In October 2015, HMT converted its entire holding of 51 billion B Viability statement shares into 5.1 billion new ordinary shares of 1 each.
Under the revised UK Corporate Governance Code the directors are required to confirm that they have carried out a robust Authority to repurchase shares assessment of the Banks principal risks and make a longer term At the Annual General Meeting in 2015, shareholders authorised viability statement.
This is set out in the Strategic report on page the company to make market purchases of up to 643,628,671 32. ordinary shares.
The directors have not exercised this authority to date.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the BBA disclosure code Annual General Meeting in 2016.
RBSs 2015 financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the principles set out in the Code for Financial Additional information Reporting Disclosure published by the British Bankers' Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the directors, the Association in 2010.
The Code sets out five disclosure principles following additional information is required to be disclosed by Part together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that RBS 6 of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and and other major UK banks will provide high quality, meaningful Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. and decision-useful disclosures: review and enhance their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest to The rights and obligations attached to the companys ordinary market participants: assess the applicability and relevance of shares and preference shares are set out in the companys good practice recommendations to their disclosures Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from acknowledging the importance of such guidance: seek to Companies House in the UK or can be found at rbs.
com about enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures us.
across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is audited and On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every information that is unaudited.
holder of ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF vote.
On a poll, every holder of ordinary shares or cumulative The EDTF established by the Financial Stability Board, published preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to its report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks in October vote shall have four votes for every share held.
All EDTF recommendations are reflected in the 2015 Annual General Meetings and General Meetings specify the Annual Report and Accounts and Pillar 3 Report.
deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the Corporate governance meeting.
The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Details are given in the Corporate governance The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.008% of report on pages 36 to 83.
The Corporate governance report and the total voting rights of the company, the remainder being compliance report pages 84 and 85 form part of this Report of represented by the ordinary shares.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Share capital company other than certain restrictions which may from time to Details of the ordinary and preference share capital at 31 time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider December 2015 and movements during the year are shown in trading laws.
Note 24 on the consolidated accounts.
89 Report of the directors Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA, certain employees of Directors the company require the approval of the company to deal in the The names and brief biographical details of the current directors companys shares.
The rules governing the powers of directors, including in relation Sandy Crombie, Alison Davis, Morten Friis, Robert Gillespie, to issuing or buying back shares and their appointment are set Penny Hughes, Ross McEwan, Brendan Nelson, Baroness out in the companys Articles of Association.
It will be proposed at Noakes and Ewen Stevenson all served throughout the year and the 2016 Annual General Meeting that the directors be granted to the date of signing of the financial statements.
authorities to allot shares under the Companies Act 2006.
The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Howard Davies was appointed to the Board on 14 July 2015 and special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
assumed the role of Chairman on 1 September 2015.
Mike Rogers was appointed to the Board on 26 January 2016.
A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfers of shares while shares are subject to the plans or the Philip Hampton stepped down from the Board on 31 August terms under which the shares were awarded.
The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative All directors of the company are required to stand for election or preference shares are set out in Note 24 on the consolidated re-election annually by shareholders at the Annual General accounts.
Meeting and, in accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the election or re-election of independent directors requires approval Except in relation to the Dividend Access Share, the company is by all shareholders and also by independent shareholders.
not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting Directors interests rights.
There are no persons holding securities carrying special The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 rights with regard to control of the company.
December 2015 are shown on page 77.
None of the directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company or in the Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible shares or loan capital of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company, and company, during the period from 1 January 2015 to 25 February shares are held in trust for participants by The Royal Bank of 2016.
Scotland plc and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company as Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of Directors indemnities participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.
Companies Act, Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions have been issued by the company to its directors, members of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust, The the RBS Executive Committee, PRA FCA Approved Persons and Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust certain directors and or officers of RBS subsidiaries.
and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust hold shares on behalf of RBSs employee share In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying Pension plans.
The voting rights are exercisable by the Trustees, Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all trustees of however, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, the RBS pension schemes.
The Trustees would take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of their Post balance sheet events shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
Other than the matter disclosed on page 355, there have been no significant events between the year end and the date of approval Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may of these accounts which would require a change to or disclosure be met through a combination of newly issued shares and shares in the accounts.
acquired in the market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
Controlling shareholder A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may In accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the company has cause a number of agreements to which the company is party to entered into an agreement with HM Treasury the Controlling take effect, alter or terminate.
All of the companys employee Shareholder which is intended to ensure that the Controlling share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Shareholder complies with the independence provisions set out Outstanding awards and options may vest and become in the UK Listing Rules.
The company has complied with the exercisable on change of control, subject where appropriate to independence provisions in the relationship agreement and as far the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and as the company is aware the independence and procurement pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, provisions in the relationship agreement have been complied with these agreements are not considered to be significant.
in the period by the controlling shareholder.
90 Report of the directors Shareholdings Directors disclosure to auditors The table below shows shareholders that have notified RBS that Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report they hold more than 3% of the total voting rights of the company confirms that: at 31 December 2015. a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Solicitor For The Affairs of Her % of total Majestys Treasury as Nominee Number of shares % of share class voting rights information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and for Her Majestys Treasury millions held held Ordinary shares 8,434 72.6 72.6 b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant As at 25 February 2016, there were no changes to the audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are shareholdings shown in the table above.
4 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Rules the information to be included in the Annual Report and Act.
4, is set out in this Directors report with the exception of details of contracts of significance under LR Auditors 9.8.
10 and 11 given in Additional Information on page 388.
Deloitte LLP are currently the auditors.
On 3 November 2014, the Company announced its intention to appoint Ernst & Young LLP Political donations EY as auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016.
It is At the Annual General Meeting in 2015, shareholders gave expected that EY will be appointed to fill the casual vacancy authority under Part 14 of the Companies Act, for a period of one arising from Deloitte LLP's resignation following the signing of the year, for the company and its subsidiaries to make political 2015 accounts and the Groups Form 20-F. A resolution to donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum appoint EY as the companys auditors will be proposed at the aggregate sum of 100,000.
This authorisation was taken as a forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
precaution only, as the company has a longstanding policy of not making political donations or incurring political expenditure within By order of the Board the ordinary meaning of those words.
During 2015, RBS made no political donations, nor incurred any political expenditure in the UK or EU and it is not proposed that RBSs longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authorisation at the Annual General Meeting in 2016.
Aileen Taylor Company Secretary 25 February 2016 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is registered in Scotland No.
SC45551 91 Statement of directors responsibilities This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on pages 253 to 259.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors are required by Article 4 of the IAS Regulation European Commission Regulation No 1606 2002 to prepare Group accounts, and as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 have elected to prepare company accounts, for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
They are responsible for preparing accounts that present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the company.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report and Directors report incorporating the Business review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, the directors are of the opinion that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Howard Davies Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 25 February 2016 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Howard Davies Ross McEwan Sandy Crombie Ewen Stevenson Alison Davis Morten Friis Robert Gillespie Penny Hughes Brendan Nelson Baroness Noakes Mike Rogers 92
