42 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors Martin has considerable Board Stephen was previously Chief Executive experience and knowledge and Officer of The Royal Bank of Scotland understanding of the financial services Group plc, 2008-13, where he led the sector.
Previous roles include Nonlargest ever corporate restructuring Executive Director and Chairman of and recovery programme.
the Audit Committee at Lloyds Banking Prior to that he held positions as Chief Group plc, 34 years at Deloitte LLP, Executive, British Land plc from 2004 26 years of which as Partner, Chairman to 2008, Chief Operating Officer, Abbey Martin Stephen of Deloitte LLP from 1995 to 2007, National plc and a number of senior Scicluna Hester Director, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu roles at Credit Suisse First Boston in Role: Chairman Role: Group Chief from 1999 to 2007 and a member London and New York.
Stephen has Executive Appointment date: of the Financial Services Trade and over 30 years experience in financial January 2013 Appointment date: Investment Board from 2013 to 2015.
February 2014 Nationality: British services and FTSE100 companies Nationality: British External appointments: Chairman of Great with expertise in transforming the Portland Estates plc and Senior Independent performance of businesses.
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Worldpay Group plc.
External appointments: Member of the Board of the Association of British Insurers.
B I N I Before RSA, Scott was Interim Alastair retired from KPMG in March Chief Executive Officer at Towergate 2011.
In the last 20 years of his 36 year Insurance having previously held the career with the firm, in the UK and post of Chief Financial Officer.
Scott overseas, he led their financial services also held the post of Chief Financial team in Scotland with a primary Officer at Brit Insurance, after four focus on insurance and investment years at Zurich Financial Services, as management.
Alastair has extensive Chief Financial Officer UK, and latterly experience in advising on accounting Scott Alastair as Group Financial Controller.
He has and financial reporting, corporate Egan Barbour also held various senior finance roles governance and management issues in Role: Group Chief Role: Independent at Norwich Union Insurance now the financial sector and is a Fellow of Financial Officer Non-Executive Aviva.
Scott is a qualified accountant the Institute of Chartered Accountants Director Appointment date: ACMA and has an MBA from in England and Wales.
October 2015 Appointment date: October 2011 Nationality: British Cranfield University.
External appointments: Non-Executive Nationality: British Director of Phoenix Group Holdings, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust plc, Liontrust Asset Management plc, CATCo Reinsurance Opportunities Fund Limited, The Bank of N. T. Butterfield & Son Limited a company listed in Bermuda.
I A B I N Kath has over 20 years experience Enrico has over 35 years global in global financial services.
She was executive and non-executive previously Chief Operating Officer, experience across financial services Wholesale Banking for Standard including banking and insurance and Chartered Bank and spent 22 years a number of blue chip brands.
Kath has gained a deep over 15 years at Allianz in a variety knowledge of control, governance of international roles, including Head and risk management, working of Global P&C and Head of most Kath Enrico in emerging markets and across of Europe, Latin America and Africa.
Cates Cucchiani different sectors and cultures.
External appointments: Partner of Think Global Role: Independent Role: Independent Investments LLP and Director and Executive External appointments: Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Committee Member of Bocconi University.
Director of Brewin Dolphin Holdings plc.
Director Director Appointment date: Appointment date: September 2013 December 2014 Nationality: British Nationality: Italian B R A B R Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Until December 2015, Hugh was Joseph has a comprehensive Chief Human Resources and Corporate understanding of the insurance market Officer of Royal Dutch Shell plc and a globally, extensive financial services member of its Executive Committee.
expertise and a good knowledge of He was a Director of Shell International international and emerging markets.
Ltd, Shell Aircraft Ltd and the Shell Previous roles include Chief Financial Foundation.
Chairman of the Monitoring Committee of the Hugh has previously held advisory Hugh Joseph Dutch Corporate Governance Code, roles at The Centre for Advanced Mitchell Streppel Advisor to the Tilburg Centre of Human Resources at Cornell University Role: Independent Role: Independent Finance and Chairman of KPN.
Advisory Board, IMD Business School Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Advisory Board, Honorary ViceExternal appointments: Vice-Chairman of Van Lanschot, a Dutch private banking and asset Appointment date: Appointment date: President for the CIPD and Advisory management firm, Director of Arq Foundation, September 2012 October 2011 Board Member of the National Chairman of Duisenberg School of Finance, Nationality: British Nationality: Dutch Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Royal College for School Leadership.
Dutch Society of Actuaries and Vice-Counsel External appointments: Fellow of the Raad Enterprise Chamber of the High Court National Academy of Human Resources of Amsterdam.
USA, Director of Edinburgh Business School.
B N R A I R Johannas previous roles include COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY Chairman of Tate Enterprises and over A Group Audit Committee 20 years with McKinsey & Company, B Board Risk Committee positions including Co-leader of the I Group Investment Committee N Gr oup Nomination and Governance Committee Global Marketing and Sales Practice R Group Remuneration Committee and Leader of their UK Consumer Chair of Committee Practice and the European Retail Member of Committee Practice, Director of Shoppers Drug Johanna Mart Corporation a company listed Waterous CBE on the Toronto Stock Exchange, and a Role: Senior non-executive director of WM Morrison Independent NonSupermarkets plc.
Johanna brings deep Executive Director expertise on consumer behaviour, sales Appointment date: May 2008 and marketing across multiple sectors.
Nationality: Canadian External appointments: Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of Rexam PLC, Director of RBG Kew Enterprises Limited, and Chairman of Sandpiper CI.
