44 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Executive Committee RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the two Executive Directors whose biographies are on page 42 and the following senior management: Patrick Bergander joined the RSA David joined RSA in March 2008 as Groups Executive Committee in June Group Motor Portfolio Director and in 2014 following his appointment as CEO February 2010 became Underwriting of RSA Scandinavia.
Previously CFO and Claims Director, Emerging Markets.
for Scandinavia, Patrick has been with David was appointed to the position the Group since 2011.
Patrick has held of Group Underwriting Director in July senior finance roles at Electrolux and 2013.
Prior to his time with RSA Group, If Skadefrskring.
David was at Zurich Financial Services Patrick David where he was Head of Personal Lines Bergander Coughlan underwriting and Chief Pricing Actuary Role: CEO Scandinavia Role: Group for the Zurich Group.
Previously, Underwriting he worked for a number of insurance Director companies in the UK & Ireland including Norwich Union, as Head of Pricing for Norwich Union Direct: Guardian: and New Ireland Assurance.
David has 24 years of insurance experience in underwriting, pricing and actuarial related matters and is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Ralph was appointed Group Chief Steve became CEO for UK and Western Auditor in June 2015 with responsibility Europe in January 2015, joining from for leading the Group Internal Audit Zurich where he was CEO, UK General function.
Previously, he held the Insurance and Shared Services for post of Chief Auditor for the UK and five years.
During his 25 year career Western Europe.
Before joining RSA at Zurich, Steve held a number of in 2014, Ralph headed up Deloitte UKs operational and financial roles in the UK Internal Audit services to the insurance and overseas including Head of Group Ralph Stephen industry.
Prior to that he held senior Operations, Planning and Performance Daals Lewis audit positions at Aviva.
Through Management 2007-09, Chief Financial Role: Group Chief Role: CEO, UK and advisory roles at Arthur Andersen Officer and Head of Operations, Global Auditor Western Europe and Deloitte, Ralph has extensive Corporate European businesses 2006- experience in providing internal audit, 07.
Steve is a Fellow of the Chartered risk management and governance Association of Certified Accountants, services to leading financial having qualified in 1990. institutions.
Ralph holds a Masters in Finance from London Business School.
William was appointed Group Chief Risk Darren was appointed Group Chief Officer in December 2014.
Since joining Information Officer in June 2013 and RSA in 2006, William has also held joined the Executive Committee in the roles of Group Risk Director, May 2014.
Having joined RSA in 2007 Group Financial Controller and Head as Chief Information Officer for the of Corporate Finance.
He is a chartered Groups Baltic operations, he went accountant with extensive risk on to lead IT and Operations in management and finance experience RSAs Central and Eastern Europe William Darren with a number of blue-chip financial region and, subsequently, its Emerging McDonnell Price institutions including HSBC Investment Markets business.
Prior to RSA, Role: Group Chief Role: Group Chief Bank, Aviva, the Financial Services Darren held roles at Compaq, Risk Officer Information Officer Authority and seven years at Deloitte.
Unilever, GE Commercial Finance and GE Capital Solutions.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Executive Committee RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Rowan is Chief Executive Officer of Derek joined the Group in July 2010 the Groups Canadian business.
Since and has over 20 years experience joining the Group in 1987, he has held in the insurance industry.
progressive leadership positions in He is responsible for the Global Legal, the areas of underwriting, marketing, Company Secretarial and Compliance sales and finance.
He is a member of teams and since 2014 took an the Board of Directors of the Insurance additional executive responsibility Bureau of Canada IBC and was the of Global Broker Relationship Director.
Rowan Derek IBCs past Chair.
Rowan is currently a From 2002 he served as Group General Saunders Walsh Non-Executive Director at Equitable Counsel at Benfield Group Limited, Role: President and Role: Group General Group Inc. a publicly traded company where he was also responsible for CEO, RSA Canada Counsel and Company on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Secretary and Global the global legal, company secretarial Broker Relationship and compliance teams.
Prior to that, Director Derek held positions in law firms Pinsent Curtis now Pinsent Masons, McKenna & Co now CMS Cameron McKenna and Norton Rose.
Paul joined the Group in 2003 as HR Director and was Chief Executive of Emerging Markets from 2006-14.
He was appointed Group Chief Operating Officer in May 2014 and in this capacity is responsible for the business disposal programme, business transformation and the Underwriting, Claims and Paul Reinsurance functions and IT.
He has Whittaker also recently taken on responsibility Role: Group Chief for Human Resources.
Paul has over 25 Operating Officer years senior management experience in the financial services sector, including three years at AXA and 10 years at GE Capital.
