46 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 System of Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out standards and expectations on corporate governance matters for UK companies.
The Financial Reporting Council are responsible for the publication and periodic review of the Code.
The latest version of the Code, published in 2014 can be found at www.
uk The Group operates within a System of Governance designed to ensure the safety and soundness of the Group through having a well-managed business with effective decision-making, robust procedures and strong internal reporting.
It also ensures that the Group complies with all relevant legislation and regulation in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
This includes ensuring compliance with the Code and this Annual Report and Accounts is available on the Groups website at www.
The Group Nomination and Governance Committee monitors compliance with the Code and further information on how Code compliance is overseen can be found in that Committees report on pages 55 to 56.
This report describes the Groups System of Governance.
Our System of Governance comprises the following elements: Element What it does Where to find more information Corporate Governance Framework Sets out how the business is managed, Directors and Corporate Governance the role of the Board and its Committees, Report on pages 40 to 96. and the management structure.
Risk Management System Governs how we identify, measure, Risk Management in the Strategic manage, monitor and report risk.
This system follows a three lines Risk Management System and the Risk of defence model.
Function in the Board Risk Committee Report on pages 57 to 58.
Regulatory Risk and Compliance Function, Group Internal Audit Function and External Auditor in the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 61 to 65.
Internal Control System Sets out controls that sit behind the Group Audit Committee Report on pages Corporate Governance Framework 61 to 65. and the Risk Management System, the Groups day-to-day procedures.
Following a Group-wide review of governance and internal control systems in 2014, an enhanced Internal Control System was adopted globally to ensure consistency of oversight and reporting: and robust objectivity and independence.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 The diagram below shows the elements of our System of Governance and how it is operated and overseen through the three lines of defence model.
Corporate Governance Framework Structure of Board and Committees Board Group Nomination Group Group Audit Group Investment Board Risk and Governance Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Regional Audit Disclosure Regional Risk Group Chief Committees Committee Committees Executive Regional and Executive Country Control Committee Committees RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM Risk Strategy Internal Own Risk Solvency Financial Control Regulatory Risk Internal Audit Appetite Prole Model Assessment Framework and Compliance Regulatory Stress and Internal Model Delegated Authority Policies Compliance External Audit Scenario Testing Governance Framework Framework Internal Control Risk Events Emerging Risks Risk Function Framework Actuarial Function Key: First line defence Second line defence Third line defence 48 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 System of Governance continued Corporate Governance Framework Directors The Corporate Governance Framework supports the The names of the directors together with their biographical realisation of the Groups business strategy, supports and Committee membership details are set out on pages 42 its long-term success and safeguards compliance and 43.
In addition, Richard Houghton served as Director until with applicable laws and regulations.
It sets out clear his resignation as an Executive Director on 7 May 2015 and as responsibilities for how the Group is directed and managed, Group Chief Financial Officer on 10 July 2015.
Scott Egan was to ensure that both directors and employees act under appointed with effect from 1 October 2015 as Executive a chain of authority and powers that link back to the Director and Group Chief Financial Officer.
shareholders as ultimate owners of the Group.
The Companys Articles of Association authorise the Board to manage the business of the Company and give the directors Role of the Board power to appoint and replace directors as required until the The primary responsibility of the Board is to provide effective next AGM.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for leadership to ensure that it promotes the success of the a three year term with an expectation that they will continue Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
The for at least a further three years.
Directors are nominated Board, supported by its Committees, provides entrepreneurial by the Group Nomination and Governance Committee leadership within a framework of prudent and effective and are subsequently approved by the Board for election controls.
The Board is accountable to stakeholders for the or re-election annually at the Companys AGM for approval creation and delivery of strong sustainable performance by shareholders.
and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Details of the directors service contracts and terms of The directors may exercise all the powers of the Company appointment, together with their interests in the Companys subject to the Articles of Association, relevant law and any shares, are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report directions that may be given by the Company at general on pages 66 to 90. meetings by shareholder resolution.
The directors may delegate any of their powers or discretion to Committees.
The role of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and clearly differentiated through role statements approved The Board sets annual objectives for the business in line by the Board.
No one individual has unfettered powers of with the current Group strategy and monitors achievement decision making.
against these objectives through regular reports.
These include updates from the Group Chief Executive and the Further information on the individuals fulfilling these roles Group Chief Financial Officer on all material business matters.
can be found in their biographies on pages 42 to 43.
There is a rolling agenda of items for consideration by the Board that is continually refreshed in line with the Delegated Authority Framework needs of the business.
The Delegated Authority Framework specifies how executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group Chief There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board that Executive and on to other executives in the Group.
It forms can only be amended by the Board itself.
This is reviewed part of the Internal Control System and links to the Corporate annually.
For a summary of the schedule of matters reserved Governance Framework.
Senior executives across the Group for the Board and roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, receive an executive licence setting out their specific limits of Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors, authority for entering into financial, underwriting, claims and visit the Companys website at www.
Each executive is responsible corporate-governance.
for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place within his or her area of responsibility.
Board Committees The Board delegates certain duties to its Committees so that This Framework enables the business to: matters receive detailed consideration.
Terms of reference Ensure that all employees execute their responsibilities for each Committee set out the authority delegated from within a clearly defined set of limits and subject to specified the Board, and these have been reviewed and approved terms and conditions appropriate to their role, competence, by the Board during the year.
experience and technical capability so as to mitigate the risk of the Group being exposed committed to material The composition of each Committee is recommended by financial, operational, legal, reputational and or regulatory the Group Nomination and Governance Committee to the risk and or loss Board for approval.
This is reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently if appropriate.
When reviewing Committee Ensure that the risks associated with managing and membership, consideration is given to each individuals delegating authorities are mitigated through the use of expertise and experience.
appropriate preventative and detective controls and remain within the Risk Appetite Further details on the role and responsibilities of each Ensure compliance with relevant regulatory and statutory Committee can be found in each Committee report and the requirements full terms of reference are available at www.
Provide clarity to the business on who can make what type and level of decisions, enabling swift escalation to the appropriate executive.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Effectiveness Key Activities of the Board in 2015 Breakdown of topics discussed at Board Group Board Committee topics During the year, the Board has considered a wide range meetings held during 2015 of items in the discharge of its duties.
The key items of discussed business considered include reviewing the Groups strategy: a.
Financial 29% approving the Groups Solvency II Internal Model application c. Risk 19% to the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA : monitoring the d d. Governance 21% a Groups System of Governance: considering the possible offer from Zurich, and approving the agreement to sell the Groups businesses in Latin America.
More information about each of these areas is below.
c The Board received regional strategy presentations throughout the year and held a discussion focused on macro digital b trends, changing customer demands and how the Group could meet these demands by further digitising processes, optimising the customer experience and increasing the sophistication of pricing.
Board attendance The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year and Solvency II came into force on 1 January 2016 and the seven ad-hoc meetings.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors Groups Internal Model which calculates its regulatory capital met privately on three occasions during the year without requirements was approved by the PRA in December 2015.
Executive Directors or senior management being present.
During the year, the Board received regular updates on the progress of the Groups Internal Model development and Scheduled Board Additional Board 4 Meetings Attended Meetings Attended application to the PRA for its approval from management Martin Scicluna 9 9 7 7 and the Board Risk Committee.
Alastair Barbour 9 9 5 7 Whilst oversight of the Groups System of Governance is Kath Cates 9 9 7 7 mainly carried out by the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee, the Board retains overall responsibility for Enrico Cucchiani 9 9 6 7 ensuring that the Group operates within a sound governance 1 Scott Egan 2 2 0 0 framework.
The Board has therefore received regular Stephen Hester 9 9 7 7 updates on the status of the Groups Internal Control system 2 Richard Houghton 4 4 0 0 and actions taken following the 2014 project to enhance this Hugh Mitchell 9 9 6 7 system.
Following an assessment by, and recommendation 3 from, the Group Audit Committee in February 2016, the Board Joseph Streppel 8 9 6 7 concluded that it was satisfied with the effectiveness of the Johanna Waterous 9 9 6 7 Groups Risk Management and Internal Control systems.
Board Chairman The approach by Zurich to possibly acquire the Group was Notes: 1.
Scott Egan was appointed as a director with effect from 1 October 2015. considered carefully by the Board over a number of meetings 2.
Richard Houghton ceased to be a director with effect from 7 May 2015. in 2015.
The Board examined each course of action it could 3.
Joseph Streppel was unable to attend one scheduled meeting due to a family bereavement.
take and what would be in the best interests of shareholders, 4.
T hese meetings were scheduled at short notice in response to the the Groups customers and employees.
The Companys key possible offer from Zurich and other items of business and directors made every effort to attend.
shareholders were contacted to ensure that their views on the approach were taken into consideration.
The Board Effectiveness of the Board concluded that it would have been willing to recommend The Board considers that the information provided to the the revised proposal received from Zurich to shareholders Board and its Committees is supplied in a timely manner and subject to certain terms and conditions.
is of an appropriate quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
During the year the Board considered and approved the sale The Board continually challenges management to ensure that of the Groups Latin American businesses to Suramericana the flow and quality of information to the Board is of a high S. A. and the sale is due to complete during 2016.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings, received regular updates on the sale process and negotiations is responsible for the running of meetings and ensures with interested parties and agreed that the sale to sufficient time for discussion and constructive challenge.
Suramericana, at the price achieved, was in the best interests When a director was not available to attend a meeting their of shareholders and delivered against the Boards objective views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the relevant to focus on core markets.
meeting where possible, and the Board informed of their opinions and observations.
Formal minutes recording the decisions of all Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each director.
If a director objects to a particular decision this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
50 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Effectiveness continued When considering matters such as the approval of financial Additionally, the Board receives briefings on matters that statements and large operational contracts, the Board may are material to the Group on the financial and operational delegate authority to a Committee to finalise and approve performance of the business and briefings on legislative and as required.
regulatory changes and on corporate governance matters affecting the Group.
Commitment Directors of the Company have attended training sessions The letters of appointment for the Chairman and each of and seminars during the year to enhance their knowledge.
the Non-Executive Directors set out their anticipated time Topics covered in 2015 include: commitment, being an average of two days per week for the Chairman and 28-32 days per year for Non-Executive Solvency II Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are required to The Groups control environment, the three lines of allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the role, defence and the importance of policies, procedures in attending Board and Committee meetings and the AGM.
and behaviour In addition, Non-Executive Directors may be required from Know Your Client, Sanctions, Politically Exposed Persons time to time to attend meetings, training and briefings, and Anti-Money Laundering and to spend time in the business.
Underwriting and Claims Audit Committees key current and developing challenges Throughout 2015, directors have demonstrated flexibility and and issues commitment in attending numerous Board and Committee Financial Reporting Council update on regulations meetings at short notice, and have made themselves available Financial reporting technical updates to meet with the Groups lead Regulators as required.
This is especially evident in the number of additional meetings Corporate Governance held due to the unsolicited approach from Zurich in July 2015.
Meetings with various function heads and regional business areas to enhance their technical knowledge Martin Scicluna is also Chairman of Great Portland Estates plc and understanding of the business and Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Worldpay Group plc.
The Board is satisfied that Governance in Action these commitments are not a constraint on the Chairmans Non-Executive Director roles are not limited to Board time or his ability to carry out his duties.
Each of the Committee chairmen meet regularly Stephen Hester and Scott Egan are not currently directors of with key members of management.
For example, Alastair any listed companies but would be allowed to have one such Barbour, Chairman of the Group Audit Committee, held appointment, subject to approval from the Group Nomination regular discussions throughout the year with members and Governance Committee.
of Group management, particularly from Finance, Risk, Regulatory Compliance, IT and Internal Audit along with Service agreements and letters of appointment, for both members of the UK management teams.
Alastair has also the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, are available for attended a number of subsidiary meetings including a UK inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
risk and controls committee meeting: and board and audit committee meetings in the Canadian business.
These Induction, training and development of directors meetings have deepened Alastairs understanding of the Upon appointment to the Board, directors undertake an business, critical issues and challenges and what is being induction programme, receiving a broad range of information done to progress them.
about the Company that is tailored to their existing knowledge and experience.
The induction programme includes: Kath Cates, Board Risk Committee Chairman, attended information on the operational performance and business of a global risk leadership team forum during the year that the Group, details of Board procedures, corporate governance covered the key risks, risk profile, risk appetite and actions and directors responsibilities.
In addition, each new director being taken in each region at a more detailed level than would attends a series of meetings with senior management usually be reported to the Board Risk Committee.
It also gave covering all aspects of the business including: Risk, Regulatory her a detailed view of the Risk functions plans for 2016 and Risk and Compliance, Claims, Capital, Reserving, Underwriting, an opportunity to discuss these areas in detail with internal Internal Audit, IT and E-Business and HR.
They are also invited experts, challenge the planning process and get to know the to attend meetings of each of the Board Committees at least senior Risk leaders.
The Risk function found Kaths presence once during their induction.
was beneficial as it assisted the function in seeing matters from the perspective of a Non-Executive Director and helped The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is promote openness and led to a frank discussion of issues.
responsible for assisting the Chairman in arranging the induction programme, training schedules and professional development of the directors and for bringing all governance matters to the attention of the Board.
The directors have access to the services and advice of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties.
y s b t n n o a i t t l a u u s l n a v o e c l t a n n e r e d t n Y x i e e E n p. a t 1 e r e r d r 2 a. v n e i i I Y e n w t e s r w n i a t l h q Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Evaluation PERFORMANCE EVALUATION To ensure the Board remains effective, an internal The Group Nomination and Governance Committee performance evaluation is carried out annually.
At least agreed the following actions to further improve the once every three years, the evaluation process is carried Board and Committees effectiveness during the course out by an external party followed by two years of an internal of 2016 as follows: evaluation process.
During the year, the Chairman led Continue the recruitment of two additional Non-Executive an internal evaluation with support from the Company Directors Secretary.
The evaluation was carried out using an online Directors to spend greater time engaging with the business, questionnaire, involved all directors and regular attendees, both formally and informally through individual site visits and reflected on the key areas identified in the previous and meetings with management evaluation for focus during 2015.
It considered the Board To re-focus on trends shaping the Groups long-term and Board Committee composition, performance, oversight, strategy post turnaround knowledge and understanding.
An external performance evaluation will be carried out in 2016.
More time to be spent on broader stakeholder views including customers and employees and developing The results of the evaluation were presented to the Group the Groups brand and culture as the long-term Nomination and Governance Committee, which concluded strategy develops.
that the Board and its Committees had operated effectively throughout 2015, with good relationships between directors The Chairman has also reviewed the performance of each and a high level of transparency and trust in the Boardroom, of the directors during the year and concluded that each enabling quality debate and challenge.
In particular, director contributes effectively to the Board and that each the Committee highlighted that the process during the Non-Executive Director devotes sufficient time to their possible takeover period from July to September 2015 role.
The Group Nomination and Governance Committee was handled very well with swift, decisive actions taken considered the evaluation and concluded that each director whilst sufficient time was given to evaluating the options be recommended to shareholders for election or re-election in a structured manner.
The Senior Independent Director met independently with each of the Non-Executive Directors to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
The review concluded that the Chairman had led the Board in a highly effective way throughout the year.
a l u l e B s o t i a o r d n n m a e i r m e e n b i a e l e n r n r s o i d a l a n n n r o e i t t n s I e. 3 u r q a e Y 52 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Evaluation continued Throughout the year, the Board has regularly received reports to enable it to monitor the actions that arose from the evaluation carried out in 2014 and the following table highlights the progress made.
Recommendations from the 2014 evaluation and actions taken during 2015 Action Agreed Status Increased scrutiny of the near-term performance, The Board received and reviewed regular updates from including achievement of key milestones in line management and is satisfied with progress to date.
with the three-year strategic turnaround plan.
Refine the longer-term strategic vision of the Group.
Annual strategy meeting held in June 2015 with particular emphasis on digital trends and how each region plans to transform its business in the long-term.
Review of the Groups operational and commercial During the year CEOs from Canada, Scandinavia and the capabilities.
UK each presented their business reviews to the Board.
These reviews included regional updates on operating landscape, performance relative to peers, market trends and the status of turnaround plans.
Board and Committee agendas to be reviewed to have The Group Nomination and Governance Committee greater focus on major issues in addition to Business reviews the rolling agenda for the Board at least twice as Usual.
annually, ensuring that sufficient time is dedicated to current or emerging topics and is satisfied that there is sufficient focus on major issues.
Deeper review of succession planning, engagement The Chairman and some of the Non-Executive Directors and culture.
attended the Global Leaders Conference and Executive, Senior and FastTrack Executive Development programmes to engage with different levels of management and gain a deeper understanding of the business.
Succession plans for the Board and Group Executive have been reviewed by the Group Nomination and Governance Committee and further information is disclosed in that Committees report on pages 55 to 56. Review the pace and evidence of cultural change, The Board reviewed the results of an assessment in line with the new control and risk frameworks.
developed during 2014 to identify early signs of cultural risk.
The results of these assessments is also used by Internal Audit to support their audits of risk culture which are reported to the Group Audit Committee regularly.
The Board to spend more time in the business, The Board visited Copenhagen in October 2015 and with increased interaction with senior management, met with the local board, employees and the Danish customers, brokers, key shareholders and regulators, Regulator.
In addition Non-Executive Directors have to strengthen the Boards direct insights into the attended regional board and committee meetings in business and its capabilities.
Canada and Scandinavia as well as attending meetings with regional senior management.
For 2016 the Board are scheduled to spend time in the UK business and have scheduled a visit to the Canadian business.
Technical updates for the Non-Executive Directors were conducted during the year, including on Solvency II, underwriting and claims.
In 2016 this will be extended to include technical updates by major broker and distribution partners.
Additional informal meetings of the Chairman, During the year three Non-Executive only meetings Non-Executive and Executive Directors to discuss were held and a number of meetings have been issues beyond the normal Board meeting agendas.
The Committee chairmen regularly meet with management outside of formal meetings and the Executive Directors are available to meet with the Non-Executive Directors whenever required.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Engagement Employees The business focuses on sustainably improving these metrics The performance and expertise of the Groups employees and specifically targets upper quartile NPS scores, by focusing are key to the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
on putting the customer first in everything that it does.
For the second year running, employees shared their views Regulators on the Group via YOURSAY, the global employee opinion The Board is responsible to the PRA and the Financial Conduct survey.
Over 75,000 comments, ideas and suggestions Authority FCA for complying with the Groups UK insurance were received and these results have been shared across regulatory obligations.
The Board attaches great importance the organisation.
From these results teams create action to its regulatory responsibilities and is committed to dealing plans to implement positive changes.
with the regulators in an open, co-operative and transparent manner.
The Board paid close attention to the expectations During 2015 there has been a cultural shift across the Group of the PRA and FCA with particular focus on Solvency II and via the introduction of technology platforms Sharepoint, Lync the Internal Model application process.
During the year and Yammer.
This has led to improved global collaboration the PRA and FCA conducted private meetings with several and knowledge sharing as well as giving all employees access members of the Board and executive management and to the senior leadership of the organisation.
Global Town regular management information is provided to assist them Hall meetings are held using live streaming and Yammer with the supervision of the Group.
In addition, the Group to communicate the Groups full and half year results.
includes a number of regulated entities which foster To encourage employee involvement in the Companys positive regulatory relationships in support of the business.
performance a number of employee share plans are offered.
Accordingly, maintaining effective relationships with Performance and talent management processes are in the Groups regulators across the world is integral to the place across the Group to ensure an ongoing focus on high success of the Groups strategy and its long-term value.
performance and the development and acquisition of talent.
The Group runs a number of talent programmes for senior Rating agencies and emerging talent and has continued to focus on retaining The Group is rated on an interactive basis by Standard & talent.
The Group continues to place a key focus on the Poors and Moodys.
The insurance financial strength ratings development of technical capability lead by the Technical are currently A stable outlook and A2 stable outlook Academy, an internal training academy which runs technical respectively.
These ratings were affirmed following the 2015 programmes, forums, conferences and a global graduate half-year results and the positive progress on the strategic programme for employees in Underwriting, Claims restructuring programme announced by the Company.
In addition, both agencies spent one day with senior management discussing Group strategy, financial plans, The Group is committed to diversity and the promotion of capital and risk management.
Following the launch in 2013 of a new diversity and inclusion programme, the Group has continued Shareholders to invest in strengthening its pipeline of female employees The Group is committed to proactive and transparent in senior leadership positions.
The Group is committed, interaction with shareholders and other market participants.
wherever possible, to employing and developing people During 2015, the Company held over 360 meetings with who are disabled, or become disabled during their career institutional investors, and met with 15 of the top 20 with the Group.
shareholders on at least one occasion.
The key themes Further information is set out in the Strategic Report on pages of these meetings centred on the future ambition and 16 to 17 and is incorporated into this Report by reference.
capability of the Group and capital foundation.
The Groups share register includes institutional investors predominantly Customer from the UK, Europe and North America with a range of For over 300 years the Group has been helping to protect investment styles.
Further information is set out in the customers all over the world from risk and uncertainty.
Shareholder Information section on page 179.
To ensure the business remains relevant, we regularly The Group remains committed to increasing levels of seek customer feedback to help us improve our service transparency and disclosure to investors to aid understanding and products.
The primary measure used to do this is the of the Companys investment case.
During 2015 the Group universally recognised Net Promoter Score NPS, which has conducted a thorough review of financial disclosures and produces a customer satisfaction score based on a scale of has redrafted the Group Financial Statements and supporting 1 to 10.
The NPS can be collected for various elements of a notes to increase both clarity and usability.
The views of other customers interaction with the Group, such as when getting providers of capital are taken into account as appropriate.
a quote or making a claim or a general impression of the business.
In addition to NPS, we track a range of other metrics that differ by product and region including: retention, complaint levels, trust and product advocacy.
54 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Engagement continued Corporate responsibility The Groups Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2013-2018 addresses the Groups most relevant environmental and social issues.
The Corporate Responsibility approach is based on the Boards commitment to run the business in a way that all stakeholders can be proud of at the same time as making a positive impact on society and the environment.
More detail can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 18 to 19 and on the Groups website at www.
Public affairs The Group contributes to public policy debates on issues relevant to the business, either individually or through industry bodies such as the Investment Association and the Confederation of British Industry.
This can include issues such as fraud, motor insurance, asbestos, renewable energy and financial services regulation.
The Group engages with policymakers to improve understanding of the role the insurance industry plays in society and the economy.
Employees apply the principles of openness, transparency, honesty and integrity to all of their activity with policymakers.
The Company adheres to principles of best practice, declaring the interests which it represents and ensuring that, to the best of its knowledge, information provided is unbiased, complete, up to date and not misleading.
Each year the Company proposes a resolution authorising political expenditure up to 100,000 for each of donations to political parties and independent election candidates, donations to political organisations and incurring political expenditure.
This resolution is proposed in the event that the funding of seminars, functions and charitable donations by the Group may be regarded as political in nature.
During the year the Group has not made any donations to political parties or independent election candidates.
